Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — serious and organised Crime what step her Department be take to tackle serious and organised crime . the Government be increase funding for the National Crime Agency by £ 58 million next year , with £ 150 million over the next two year for the Border Security Command to tackle organise immigration crime . the whole House will welcome the recent action by the National Crime Agency to arrest major suspect in people smuggler gang . I applaud the work of the Border Security Command and the NCA in those operation . will the Home Secretary join I in thank Greater Manchester police for their work in tackle organise crime group , particularly the notorious Adam ocg in Rochdale , whose drug deal , modern slavery and child exploitation make life such a misery for my resident ? will she particularly applaud Chief Superintendent Danny Inglis and his team , not just for their superb detective work but for their engagement with school ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Greater Manchester police and the National Crime Agency on that operation , which have make people safe on the street of Rochdale . tackle organise drug crime mean action stretch from international work by the NCA right through to neighbourhood police on the street , and community work to prevent young people from be draw into organise gang . the Home Secretary know that rural area be not immune to county line activity . will she put on record her thank for the excellent work of West Mercia police , who recently arrest quite a few people on charge relate to drug and firearm ? what more can the National Crime Agency , and particularly the multi - agency co - ordination centre , do to support rural force and small force such as West Mercia ? I certainly welcome the work that have be do to tackle the gang the right hon . Gentleman refer to . such crime have a huge impact on community . we need the National Crime Agency work not just through the regional organise crime unit , but with local force right through to the neighbourhood police on the beat . that be often where the intelligence come from , especially where child be be drag in . I know the Home Secretary understand the importance of our brave firearm officer in deal with serious and organised crime that pose a danger to the public . I welcome the measure to provide anonymity , but will the Government consider go far by allow a defence in misconduct or criminal proceeding if an officer can show that they follow their training and procedure ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we set out very swiftly the response to the accountability review . that include a series of measure not just on anonymity , but on strengthen the law and on the need for the system to work much more speedily to support officer in very difficult split - second decision . we have a review under way , involve Tim Godwin and Sir Adrian Fulford , which be look at many of these issue . Antisocial Behaviour : Town Centres what step her Department be take to help tackle antisocial behaviour on high street and in town centre . what step her Department be take to help tackle antisocial behaviour on high street and in town centre . what step she be take to improve safety in town centre . too many town centre and high street have be hit in recent year by soar level of shoplifting and street crime , and damage antisocial behaviour , at the same time as neighbourhood police have be heavily cut . the Government be introduce new power to tackle antisocial behaviour and shop crime , and rebuild neighbourhood police on our street . too often in recent year , antisocial behaviour have blight our high street , with people in Clwyd East feel unsafe when they be out in their local community . we know that neighbourhood police work . in Prestatyn , the recent work of North Wales police to combat antisocial behaviour at the retail centre have lead to positive youth engagement and criminal charge . do the Home Secretary agree that rather than write off such offence as low - level and leave community to deal with they alone , as the previous Government do , we must prioritise neighbourhood police and give officer the power they need to tackle antisocial behaviour head - on ? my hon . friend be exactly right , and I congratulate she on stand up for her town centre . when town centre crime get out of control , it impact on local business and local confidence , and it impact badly on community . that be why we be bring in respect order , under which repeat perpetrator can be ban from town centre , and set out our plan to have 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police and police community support officer back on our street . I thank my right hon . friend for that helpful answer . many resident in my constituency flag up the real problem with antisocial behaviour in both Sheerness and Sittingbourne town centre . Windows have be smash in church hall , and shop window be smash when the Christmas light be be put on — I be see this all the time . can she please tell I what help she be offer Kent police to support my resident face this behaviour ? my hon . friend make a really important point . as well as our plan to increase neighbourhood policing and introduce respect order , we be go to get rid of the ludicrous £ 200 rule that we inherit from the Conservatives , which mean that shoplifting be very often not properly investigate . that need to be take much more seriously . this morning I have the pleasure of meet sunny , the new store manager at the Hotel Chocolat in Uxbridge , which open today . unfortunately , during that joyous occasion , he tell I all - too - familiar story about the shoplifting and antisocial behaviour that blight our high street . will the Home Secretary assure I that the 19 % of the Met Police ' s time that be take up with London - wide and national policing issue will be take into account when allocate the Met ' s budget , so that we have the resource we need and , crucially , the police we need back on our high street ? my hon . friend make an important point ; I can tell he that we have already provide Met Police with an initial £ 30 million this year to fund the police pay increase that be not fund by the previous Conservative Government . we be also support neighbourhood police right across the country and much strong action , not just on shop theft , but on assault against shop worker — a truly disgraceful crime . as a former police and crime commissioner for Lancashire , I work very closely with the last government on Operation Centurion , which be about really focus in on antisocial behaviour through more visible patrol and well partnership work . we know that a lot of antisocial behaviour be egg on by a very small minority , and some of the most serious crime relate to antisocial behaviour be drive by that small minority . without restrict freedom , ban order do not work and engagement with youth offend team do not work , because they be all voluntary . what measure do the Government intend to bring in as part of their new zero tolerance zone that will be different from what currently exist , to make it really zero tolerance ? the hon . member be right that sometimes it be a small minority who be make life a total nightmare for everyone else . the current antisocial behaviour injunction just be not strong enough , because very often they do not come with a power of arrest . that be why we be introduce respect order , which mean that repeat perpetrator can be ban from town centre . they will have a power of arrest so that swift action can be take if they be breach . antisocial behaviour and crime on our high street be well tackle with a visible police presence , but police officer in my constituency be spend a four - hour round trip take those they be arrest to worthe custody centre when we have a perfectly fit - for - purpose custody centre in Chichester . do the Home Secretary agree that open Chichester custody centre would reduce the time that police officer spend sit in traffic and get they back on our street ? the hon . Member make an important point : there be often additional challenge for rural area or area where neighbourhood police may have to travel , and it be important that we maintain and increase neighbourhood police right across the board in all area . she will know that many of the issue around the location of centre be operational decision for police force , but I will pass the issue she have raise on to her police and crime commissioner . the Cherry Tree community centre on the swinemoor estate in Beverley provide support for up to 150 young people in the area , despite not have any permanent premise . it have plan permission and some money from the National Lottery , but could I please meet the right hon . Lady or one of her colleague to discuss how we can find the funding for the right premise to support young people in Swinemoor and across Beverley ? I will happily ensure that the right hon . Member be able to have a meeting with one of the team . we believe that introduce youth hub be part of the prevention work that we need , particularly as part of new prevention partnership , to stop young people be draw into crime . we also need a new strong law on child criminal exploitation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the use of illegal high - powered Sur - Ron type e - bike by criminal gang on and around our high street be cause significant concern , particularly in London , with incident of antisocial behaviour , violent mugging and phone theft become increasingly more common . can the Home Secretary please update the House on discussion her Department have have with the Mayor of London and the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police on what they be do to reduce these incident and make our street safe across London ? the hon . member be right to refer to the issue around antisocial and criminal use not just of e - bike — sometimes e - scooter be use illegally on pavement and off - road bike cause havoc in local neighbourhood . that be why we will strengthen the law around vehicle use for antisocial behaviour , so that they can be seize when that antisocial behaviour take place and the police do not have to go through a whole ritual of a series of warning which delay action . intelligence Sharing what step her Department be take to improve intelligence sharing follow the terrorist incident in Forbury Gardens in read in 2020 . the horrendous attack in Forbury Gardens in Reading claim the life of three people , and it be all the more agonising for their love one that the subsequent inquest conclude that it be avoidable . the Home Secretary and I be oversee the implementation of commitment make in response to the inquest , and we be determined that all the lesson learn from this terrible incident be act on . I thank the Minister for his response . James Furlong , David Wails and Joe Ritchie - Bennett be murder in the Forbury Gardens terrorist attack in read in 2020 . the coroner find major problem with intelligence sharing between authority , which be underline in the prevention of future death report publish in May . alongside other , Gary Furlong , my constituent and the father of James , be demand that this be not just another report that sit on a shelf gather dust . what action will my right hon . friend the Home Secretary take to make permanent change on the back of this attack ? will she agree to meet Gary Furlong and I to discuss progress in due course ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this very important issue . our deep condolence be with the love one of James , Joseph and David follow their tragic death . I assure my hon . friend and the family that we will do everything in our power to stop this happen again . we will of course be happy to meet the family to discuss change make , and I would be happy to meet my hon . friend and her constituent to discuss the matter far . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I be sure that the thought of the whole House will be with the family of the read victim and the victim of other terror attack . Jonathan Hall KC , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , have say that as much information as possible should be put into the public domain as early as possible to maintain public trust . can the Minister assure the House that he and his ministerial colleague have always disclose relevant information at an early stage in relation to high - profile terror - relate case that have attract substantial public and media attention ? the shadow Home Secretary have raise an important issue . yes , we agree with Jonathan Hall ; he be absolutely right . our overriding priority will always be to ensure that the victim of crime get justice , and we will look at how good that can be achieve . Retail Crime what step her Department be take to help tackle shoplifting and violence against shop worker . what step her Department be take to help tackle shoplifting and violence against shop worker . what step she be take to help tackle retail crime . in the last year of the previous Government , shop theft reach a record high , and we see intolerable level of abuse against shop worker , leave people fearful of go to work . this government will not stand by as these crime devastate our high street and town centre . that be why we be commit to rebuild neighbourhood policing , scrap the £ 200 limit , which have let thief steal below the level with impunity , and introduce a new , stand - alone offence of assault a retail worker . our shop worker will be put in some long , hard shift in the come week to help we to get ready for Christmas , but a report from the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers have say that their risk of be the victim of assault in the workplace have double in the last year . will my right hon . friend join I in commending USDAW ' s Freedom from Fear campaign and affirm that the Government ' s commitment to remove the immunity from certain type of shoplifting introduce by the Conservative Government will proceed at pace ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for highlight USDAW ' s finding and its tireless campaign alongside the Co - op for the new stand - alone offence of assault a retail worker , which we will be proud to introduce in the forthcoming crime and police Bill alongside the scrapping of the £ 200 limit . I take this opportunity to recognise the commitment of Cleveland ' s police and crime commissioner , Matt Storey , in tackle retail crime . I look forward to work with all police and crime commissioner to tackle this scourge on our community . shoplifting be a crime that threaten the feeling of safety for shopper and shop worker alike . in my constituency of East Worthing and Shoreham , the issue have become so severe that in the past year a resident have describe it as an epidemic . can my right hon . friend please tell I how the Government plan to tackle this issue , so that shopper and business in my area can operate in safety and with confidence ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that people in East Worthing and Shoreham and across the entire country want to know how this government be go to tackle this epidemic . I have refer to the 13 , 000 neighbourhood police officer , respect order , the abolition of the £ 200 threshold limit and the stand - alone offence of assault a shop worker . I want to restore confidence in the people my hon . friend represent — confidence that will make they feel their street be safe — and ensure that criminal in their area pay the price for their crime . my constituency team and I recently visit shop on one of the busy high street in my constituency . of the first 10 we visit , nine say that their staff have suffer attack at work , and all 10 say that shoplifting be now pretty much a daily occurrence . do the Minister agree that extra resource and extra policing be part of the answer , but that we should also be look at programme such as offender to rehab scheme — one of which have be roll out in the west midland — to make sure we be also tackle the cause of retail crime ? my hon . friend paint a deeply upsetting and unacceptable picture of the impact that aggressive and repeat shop theft can have on retail worker . the bad thing be that we know that it be replicate up and down the entire country ; we can not continue like this . that be why we be determined to take the action that I have set out in previous answer , but I agree that we have to look at issue around rehabilitation for offender , include treatment for addiction where appropriate . bath be a very popular tourist and shopping destination , but it have also see the high increase in shoplifting offence between 2023 and 2024 . for my shopkeeper to feel safe , they want a much more visible police presence in Bath . what can the Government do for they ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . shop theft go up by 21 % in the previous year , which be totally unacceptable , and I hear very clearly what she say about her constituency of Bath . that be why the neighbourhood police model that this Labour Government stand on at the general election be so important for start to deal with shop theft , which — as we have just be talk about — have become an epidemic . the Home Secretary have repeatedly reiterate her pledge to tackle shoplifting and violence against shop worker by have a name officer in each community , as part of the 13 , 000 uplift for neighbourhood police . I speak to Cambridgeshire constabulary recently , which confirm that under the Home Secretary ' s plan there would be one police officer to cover the whole town of St Ives . that officer would cover not only St Ives , but the town of Ramsey and all the village in between — Woodhurst , Old Hurst , Pidley , Warboys , Wistow and Bury . last week , the Policing Minister would not commit to review the police allocation formula to ensure Cambridgeshire receive its fair share of funding . how can one officer be expect to cover such a large area effectively , give that Cambridgeshire be likely to receive only a handful of the officer ? I say gently to the hon . member that he have to look at what this Government inherit from his Conservative Government after 14 year , during which neighbourhood policing be repeatedly cut . this Government be commit to restore neighbourhood policing . we have say that we will bring in 13 , 000 police officer , police community support officer and special . when ? the shadow Home Secretary be shout " when ? " at I . we be work on this as quickly as we can , five month in , after 14 year of what the Conservatives do to our policing . shoplifting be often organise by criminal gang , and Norfolk police have have some success in fight they . do the Minister recognise that partnership such as Operation Wonderland — which have just be launch by West Norfolk police alongside the local council , CCTV operator , street ranger and shop worker — be key to tackle this crime and make sure offender be bring to justice ? the hon . Gentleman make a very important point . police alone can not deal with this crime ; we need to work hand in hand with business , as well as the trade union . USDAW have be very important in the campaign for the offence of assault a shop worker that we be go to bring in . I have also meet the British Retail Consortium , and will chair a regular forum with the retail sector to make sure we be share good practice . we be go to deal with the problem we have inherit . I call the shadow Minister . one of the good way to help tackle retail crime be to put more police on the street . the last Conservative Government do just that — [ interruption . ] the last Conservative Government do just that , deliver record number of police , with more funding than ever before , but we be not stop there . this year , the Conservative Government increase frontline police funding by £ 922 million . will the Minister commit to matching or even improve that figure next year ? I do not know if it be just amnesia on that side of the House , but I think the Shadow Minister need to reflect on what we actually inherit : pcso cut by 50 % , special down by two third and over 20 , 000 police officer cut under the Conservative Administration . so a little bit of humility about what they have leave we with would go down very well . afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the afghan citizen resettlement scheme . we be determined to honour our commitment to those who support we in Afghanistan and who stand up for freedom and democracy , place their own life at risk . to date , the afghan scheme have bring over 32 , 000 people to safety in the UK , include thousand through the afghan citizen resettlement scheme . we aim to continue to relocate eligible individual through our establish scheme as quickly as possible . a major issue of concern for Afghans who have be here since the opening of the scheme be that their residency permit be now up for renewal . I be sure the Government do not want to render illegal those whom we welcome to the UK . can we have some guidance from the Home Office about some of the question that people have ask I : where do people go for renewal ; how be the Home Office respond to those who have have several change of address ; and if there be a cost , what happen to those who can not pay ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and for all her work for those who be here from Afghanistan . we continue to seek to email and notify all individual currently resettle in the UK whom we be aware of , and I will certainly continue to discuss with she the method we be use for those face other issue . my constituent Dr Lubna Hadoura be an NHS consultant who desperately want to be able to care for her 80 - year - old mother , a refugee displace from Gaza early this year who be now alone in Egypt and unable to care for herself . will the Minister assure I that her application for an adult dependent relative visa will be carefully , humanely and properly consider ? I be not quite sure that that be actually about the resettlement scheme , but okay . I thank my hon . friend for her question . the death and destruction in Gaza be intolerable , and I assure she that that application be be look at very closely and she should be receive an update very soon . domestic Abuse what step her Department be take to help tackle domestic abuse . the Government have set out an unprecedented mission to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . I say this on White Ribbon Day , and it be good to see everybody wear their white ribbon . we be determined to tackle the scourge of domestic abuse in all its form . from early 2025 , Raneem ' s law , which will embed domestic abuse specialist team into 999 control room in order to improve the police response to domestic abuse crime , will ensure that victim get a swift and specialist response when they call for help . we will also , finally , launch the pilot of the domestic abuse protection order and roll they out across the country , which the previous Government fail to do three year after the fact of the law change . so we will be provide strong protection for survivor and ensure that perpetrator be properly monitor and manage . I thank the Minister for her response . my constituent Samantha Billingham be a domestic abuse survivor who now run training session on coercive control . coercive control be a thread that run throughout all abuse , and I be shocked to hear that it do not form a core part of the training for the police , social worker or any other domestic violence training . will the Minister meet I and Samantha to ensure that coercive control form a key part of domestic violence training ? I have meet Samantha Billingham , a local west midland legend campaign in this space , a number of time and I share my hon . friend ' s shock at the lack of knowledge about coercive control . all police , social worker and other in contact with victim of domestic abuse ought to be aware of coercive control and its insidious effect on the victim , and of course I would be delighted to meet she . there be a significant disparity in sentencing for murder base on whether a weapon be take to the scene of a domestic crime or be already present . sentence for murderer who use a weapon already available at the crime scene start 10 year low than sentence for those who bring a weapon with they . do the Minister agree that this disparity must be tackle ? I thank the hon . Lady and pay tribute to Julie Devey and Carole Gould , two of the parent who be fight this campaign . a Ministry of Justice sentencing review be currently ongoing , and I know that Carole and Julie and Members here will want to feed into that . young People : Violent Crime what step her Department be take to help prevent young people from become involve in violent crime . the epidemic of knife crime that have grow over the last decade be devastating family and community right across the country . that be why this Government have set ourselves an unprecedented mission to halve knife crime over the next 10 year . we be already take action to get lethal blade off Britain ' s street and take strong action against illegal online knife sale . we be also determined to stop young people be draw into violent crime and county line in the first place , which be why we be deliver a radical new young future prevention programme , with target intervention to help at risk young people and a network of new youth hub . I thank the Minister for meet I recently . as she say , too many young people be be draw into county line , suffer exploitation and violence . this be a significant problem across the country , include in Norwich . many organisation be work hard locally to improve the situation , such as the Joe Dix Foundation , establish by his parent after Joe ' s tragic murder in 2022 . can the Minister reassure I that the Government be invest all they can in preventive measure and set out what be be do to support organisation on the frontline ? it be a great pleasure to meet my hon . friend just last week to discuss this issue . organisation like the Joe Dix Foundation do amazing work to help keep people safe and keep young people out of county line gang in particular , and through the Home Office county line programme we be go after exploitative gang and provide specialist support for child and young people . our young future programme will establish those prevention partnership in every local authority to identify child and young people at risk . the Minister speak of the young future programme . will she work with the Northern Ireland Executive to put in place the same programme so that we can prevent young people in Northern Ireland from join paramilitary organisation , which be nothing more than organised and violent crime organisation ? I can certainly talk to Ministers in the Northern Ireland Office to discuss what we can learn from the propose programme and the good practice we know exist already in many part of the UK . we want to build on that so I be very happy to share that . car theft : rural Areas what step her Department be take to help tackle car theft in rural area . who want to answer this one ? sorry , Mr Speaker . these question be like bus — they all come along at once . vehicle theft be a deeply distressing and damaging crime which can have a detrimental effect on both individual and business , include in rural community . that be why we be work closely with both the police and the automotive industry to ensure the most robust response possible to these crime . last week I meet with the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead for vehicle crime to discuss this issue and how we can well work together to prevent it . an increase in car and van theft and antisocial behaviour in Stocksbridge , Deepcar , High Green , Chapeltown and Dodworth have leave my constituent feel vulnerable and unsafe . local people have also experience excessive 999 response time . how be the Minister tackle the rise in vehicle theft , work with manufacturer to improve vehicle safety and support South Yorkshire police after year of conservative cut ? I be pleased that this question be be ask , and it be important to note that this autumn , drive by the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead for vehicle crime , the national vehicle crime reduction partnership have be launch , bring together the police , the Home Office and manufacturer on the very point of how we tackle this problem . we be also commit to bring forward legislation to ban electronic device use to steal vehicle , empower the police and court to target those criminal use , manufacture and supply they . that be a welcome answer from the Minister . farmer in Wiltshire complain not just about car theft , which be endemic , but wide agricultural theft , too , and the terrible scourge of hare coursing . it be all bind up in serious organise crime . do the Minister recognise the seriousness of organise rural crime of this nature , and what step be she take to address it ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I recently meet the Agricultural Engineers Association to discuss the implementation of the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 , which he will know be important in tackle some of that rural crime with agricultural equipment that have be steal , often by organise gang . there be work ongoing on this , and the issue be recognise by the Home Office . public Confidence in Policing what step her Department be take to increase public trust and confidence in police . public confidence in policing fall under the last Conservative Government , as we see a big drop in police on the beat , with few crime solve and a real sense in community that more criminal be get away with it . this Government be determined to turn that around , start with get police back on the beat and rebuild neighbourhood policing . early this month I hold a community meeting in Dinnington about the regeneration project on the high street . it be well attend , and people be optimistic , but they be also worried about the lack of police in the area and the crime that continue to blight their town . can the Home Secretary reassure the resident of Dinnington that this Government will rebuild community policing , which be utterly let down over 14 year of Conservative Government ? my hon . friend be exactly right . the percentage of people see police on the beat each week have drop by two third over the past 14 year . the percentage of people who say they never see the police have double . that be the shameful consequence of 14 year of conservative policing policy . this government will put 13 , 000 more police and police community support officer back on the beat . local volunteer in Potters Bar be leave struggle on Remembrance Sunday to stop the traffic to allow the march to take place . they be tell by the police that they lack the resource and the power to stop the traffic , yet on the same day in neighbour Essex the police manage to visit a journalist regard a delete tweet . every weekend , vast amount of resource pour into London for pro - palestinian marche . do the Home Secretary share the despair of my constituent at this allocation of resource , and will she provide guidance for next year ' s Remembrance service , both on police power and the responsibility regard those marche ? I just point out to the former Deputy Prime Minister that the state of police in this country be the policing that we inherit after 14 year of Conservative Government , in which they take police off the beat and in which we lose neighbourhood policing and pcso . this government have make clear what the priority for policing should be neighbourhood policing , include tackle antisocial behaviour and town centre crime , and reduce serious violence , include knife crime and violence against woman and girl . we always believe that Remembrance Day should be respect , which be something that one of his former colleague as Home Secretary do not respect . I call the act shadow Minister . More than 13 , 000 non - crime hate incident have be log by UK police force in the past year , include against schoolchildren as young as nine for classroom insult . this be estimate to have take 60 , 000 hour of police time and undermine public trust and confidence in police . the last Government tighten the guidance , and it have be widely report this morning that the Home Secretary will update it again . how will the right hon . Lady know if her change have work ? what be the metric , and be there a target ? if the change do not work , will she restrict investigation to take place only when there be an imminent risk of an actual crime ? I welcome the hon . member to her act role — I be not sure how long she be act for . we have make clear what we believe the priority should be for policing : neighbourhood police and reduce serious violence on our street , and that should be the case across the board . we should have a common - sense approach to police decision in every area across the country . on the issue she raise , the inspectorate have recently do a report , which find inconsistency in a whole series of area . we believe that its recommendation need to be take immensely seriously by force across the country . Online Safety : child what step her Department be take to help keep child safe online . there be nothing more important for the Government than keep our child safe . that be why I be appal by the volume of child abuse that be proliferate online , and why we be determined to act . we be committed to robust implementation of the Online Safety Act 2023 , which contain strong protection for child , but we will not hesitate to go far if tech company fail to play their part . our investment in the National Crime Agency , GCHQ , an undercover online network of police officer and the tackle organise exploitation programme be support our effort to keep child safe online by target and stop the high harm and most technically sophisticated offender . I greatly welcome the action that the Government be take , but the fight against child sex abuse online be only as strong as its weak link , and Facebook ' s decision to allow the encrypt sharing of image make it a very weak link indeed . do the Minister share my anger that Facebook appear to be turn a blind eye while its platform become a safe haven for paedophile ? my hon . friend raise an extremely serious issue . I assure he that we very much share his concern . the Home Secretary have meet representative from Meta and our official be in regular contact . what we say in all those discussion be very simple . for year , Meta have be an industry leader when it come to prevent and detect child sex abuse online , and what we all want to see be it continue to play that positive role and not — as my hon . friend fear — go in the opposite direction . my constituent lose his son to suicide follow exposure to an online suicide forum . he be sadly one of 88 know Britons , the young of whom be just 17 , whose death have be link to this one site . under the Online Safety Act , the Technology Secretary have the power to include such small but very dangerous site under category 1 — the most heavily regulate category — but Ofcom have advise he against do so . will the Minister press her colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to include these exceptionally dangerous site in category 1 ? I pay tribute to the hon . member ' s constituent . it be unimaginable for any parent to have to go through something like that . we at the Home Office be work incredibly closely with our dsit colleague as the Online Safety Act come into force to ensure that it be as strong and robust as it can be . we be have those conversation daily . violence against Women and girl what step her Department be take to tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department be take with police force to tackle violence against woman and girl . what support she be provide to local organisation to help tackle violence against woman and girl . the scale of violence against woman and girl in our country be intolerable , and the Government will treat it as a national emergency . as part of this mission , we be bring together minister from right across government so that every Department do its bit , from prevention work in school through to relentless pursuit of dangerous perpetrator . on top of that work , we have already begin strengthen the police response to domestic abuse . we will mark the next 16 day of activism with further announcement on our work to tackle spike , stalk and other VAWG crime . charity such as Aylesbury Women ' s aid do brilliant and vital work to support survivor of domestic abuse . however , when these survivor interact with other public - face service such as emergency or healthcare service , they be not always meet with the same level of understanding . what measure be the Minister take to ensure that survivor of domestic violence and abuse be meet with a trauma - inform approach across all public service ? a massive thank you to Aylesbury Women ' s aid for the amazing work that it be clearly do . I be afraid that my hon . friend and victim be exactly right in their assessment . that be why we must have a completely cross - Government approach to ensure that no matter where a victim stand up , all service take responsibility for their role in the life of those who be suffer . as the hon . member for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) point out , coercive control be a criminal offence but it be often overlook , despite research suggest that it be the third high risk factor in domestic homicide . in my surgery in Esher and Walton , victim have tell I that there be not a sufficient understanding of coercive control in police interview , particularly when other crime be be investigate . what assessment be be make of the effectiveness of the roll - out of the domestic abuse risk assessment — DARA — toolkit , which be introduce by the College of Policing in 2022 ? a number of different risk assessment tool be use , whether DARA or Dash — the domestic abuse , stalking , harassment and honour - base violence risk assessment — which have a more historical grounding and be use more widely . I want the hon . Lady to know that it be impossible to read any domestic homicide review in our country for the past decade and not think that risk assessment , and how well they be use and operate , be something that we should look at . will the Minister join I in thank the incredible staff at the Sandycroft centre in my constituency , who offer life - save support for vulnerable people in time of crisis ? will she visit the centre with I to hear from ceo Lee McKenzie and the independent sexual violence adviser , who be on the frontline tackle increase violence against woman and girl ? as it be very local to I , I take a particular interest in the Sandycroft centre . such centre be invaluable to vulnerable woman , and I would be delighted to visit he and Lee — it would be a 15 - minute drive . do the Minister agree that local charity like Jasmine House , which operate in my constituency , play a vital role in support woman who have be victim of a sexual crime ? but in addition to the worry of constantly try to find funding , they be concerned about the impact that the Government ' s propose increase in employer ' s national insurance will have on their ability to continue provide that help . do the Minister agree that they should be exempt from the change to national insurance contribution ? I pay tribute to Jasmine House . as someone who apply for funding for a similar centre , I understand exactly the funding pressure that its staff will face . what the sector really need be stability , the assurance of more than single - year funding , which the Government be look at , and make sure that we mitigate to ensure that there be enough . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . today be the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women . it mark the start of 16 day of global activism on the issue . as part of the Labour Government ' s safe street mission , we have set an ambition to halve violence against woman and girl , which I hope everyone will be a part of . today we be set out new action to tackle the devastating crime of spiking , with a new stand - alone criminal offence to strengthen the police response , new specialist training for bar and door staff across the country , and new recording measure , because we fear that the prevalence be much high than have be previously think , and the dangerous criminal responsible need to be catch and stop . as we look forward to the festive season , everyone should be able to enjoy a night out without have to worry about the safety of their drink and whether they will be able to get home safely . I meet constituent at my coffee morning in Southall Green on Friday , who raise the constant issue of open drug dealing and antisocial behaviour in the town centre . will the Secretary of State work with the Mayor of London to ensure that we have more police on the street of Southall and London as soon as we can ? my hon . friend make an important point . we have already give the Met an additional £ 37 million this year , on top of what it be previously allocate . we also need to ensure that here and right across the country we have neighbourhood police back in town centre , because that be how to tackle not just local drug dealing , but antisocial behaviour and other crime that blight community . I call the shadow Home Secretary . let I start by offer the Home Secretary a belate congratulation on her appointment . have be a Minister in that Department , I know how difficult her job be and I genuinely wish she well in do it . we will always seek to work constructively with the Government in the national interest . I also associate myself with the remark she make about International VAWG Day — International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and girl . since the election , 19 , 988 people have dangerously and illegally cross the channel , a 23 % increase on the same period last year . why do the right hon . Lady think the number have go up so much on her watch ? I thank the shadow Home Secretary for his opening word . I think he describe his time in the Home Office as his good ministerial job ever . give that he be Chief Secretary to the Treasury under Liz Truss , we can perhaps wonder why . he be also the Immigration Minister who , I remind he , tell the Commons and the Select Committee that he would not rule out use giant wave machine as the way to stop small boat crossing . we inherit record high level of small boat crossing in the first half of this year . we have take action to fix the previous Government ' s chaos . I be ask the Home Secretary about her record . I be ask the Home Secretary why small boat crossing have go up during her time in office . perhaps it be because , as the National Crime Agency say , we need a deterrent . yet she cancel the Rwanda deterrent before it even start . now we hear Ursula von der Leyen , the European Commission President , ask european member state to look at offshore processing . be that not why it have go up ? be that not why the Minister for Border Security and Asylum admit last week that she be open new hotel instead of close they down ? seriously , what a lot of chaos ! high level on record : that be the six month of the last Conservative Government , while the right hon . Gentleman be in government . in fact , the number since the summer be not the high on record . that , unfortunately , be his legacy . while he be the Immigration Minister , he increase the number of asylum hotel by 500 % and increase the number of people in asylum hotel by over 900 % . seriously , he should not try to give lecture to anybody else at all . well , I be go to give a little lecture . if you really want to attack each other , can you do it before we get to topical question ? these question be mean to be short and sweet , because otherwise other member will not get in . specialist domestic abuse service , such as the First Step in Knowsley , be face an increase in demand but be have to turn people away due to a lack of funding . what more can minister do to support such service ? I have visit the First Step , and to say that it be run by brilliant merseyside woman would be an underestimation . specialist " by and for " service play an essential role and provide tailor support to victim and survivor . we understand the challenge that the sector face , in particular with the level of demand their service be currently face . all decision on funding after March 2025 be subject to the spending review process . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we all want to stop criminal terrorise our community , whether they be domestic abuser or shoplifter target our high street . live facial recognition be be roll out by our police force , include on Sutton High Street in my constituency , but we can not ignore the risk that this technology present . facial recognition system be most likely to misidentify black people and woman , do nothing to stop crime and far erode trust in our police . will the Minister introduce clear regulation oversight of live facial recognition , such as that which the EU pass last April ? this be another area where the new incoming Labour Government be have to look at power and measure bring in by the previous Government . live facial recognition can have very positive effect , but we need to consider whether we need a framework around it . that be why I will be host a series of roundtable before Christmas to discuss with stakeholder the way forward on this technology . the National Audit Office recently raise serious concern about the previous Government ' s decision to buy poor - quality , expensive and contaminate asylum accommodation at Northeye . what step be the Department take to ensure that asylum accommodation be fit for purpose and represent value for money ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue . what the National Audit Office find in its report be not only an appalling process of decision making by member of the previous Government , but a grotesque waste of £ 15 million of taxpayer ' money — just like the waste of £ 60 million at RAF Scampton . in contrast , the new Government be determined to cut asylum accommodation cost by step up decision making , reduce the backlog — order . Gregory Stafford . — and increase return . order . it be the Back Benchers who do not get in . transnational repression by Iran , China , Russia and other unfriendly nation continue to be writ large on diaspora population in this country . what be the Government ' s strategy on transnational repression , and will the Home Secretary reintroduce the last government ' s defend democracy taskforce to monitor incidence ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point . the taskforce be examine closely the threat that he raise , and we shall have more to say about that shortly . I be sure that the Home Secretary would agree that good government be transparent government . I have be tell by her Department , in response to a write parliamentary question , that the number of crime commit by illegal migrant be not available through publish statistic . I be sure that the Home Office do hold the datum , so will the Minister commit to publish it in full ? there will be a huge drop of immigration - relate national statistic at the end of the week . two brave woman from Maltby come to my most recent surgery . each tell I about the horrific physical and emotional abuse that they have suffer at the hand of their ex - partner . they also tell I that the police have ignore non - molestation order , which — as I know from my professional experience before I be call to the Bar — be far from uncommon . what step will the Government take to ensure that any relevant court order be give due force ? my hon . friend make an important point . there be a serious problem of injunction , non - molestation order and protection order not be treat properly . that be why we be introduce Raneem ' s law , which include strong protection order and specialist in 999 control room . Chelmsford ' s allocation of dispersal accommodation for asylum seeker be more than 120 bed , but the number find to date be about a tenth of that number owe to the high demand for and high cost of private rent accommodation in the district . what extra support can the Minister offer council face the increase cost of housing asylum seeker ? we be try to co - operate much more with local authority so that we can deal with these issue , but ultimately the way to deal with they be to get the backlog down and get people out of high - price accommodation so that we can integrate they if they be grant asylum . I have meet a number of british - palestinian family who be try to reunite with their family in Gaza . part of the entry clearance process require the undertaking of biometric . there be no visa centre in Gaza , and they be unable to leave owe to the closure of the Rafah crossing . will the Home Secretary , or the Minister , please indicate whether they be willing to introduce a temporary waiver for biometric so that people can complete the entry clearance process ? the death and destruction in Gaza be intolerable . Palestinians who wish to join family member in the UK must do so via the range of exist route that be available , but if my hon . friend wish to raise a specific matter with I , I shall be happy to meet she . what step be the Minister take to tackle crime in rural area ? as I say early , I have meet representative of the Agricultural Engineers Association to discuss the implementation of the secondary legislation that be require to deal with the theft of agricultural equipment , and I be also have meeting with the rural crime unit to discuss some of the specific . however , the neighbourhood policing guarantee apply in rural area just as much as in urban area , which be important . my constituent Tracy set up the organisation change be make in memory of her grandson Cameron Hamilton , who be fatally stab in Bournemouth town centre last year . Tracy believe deeply in the power of education and positive activity to tackle knife crime , and be campaign for a youth hub in the constituency . can the Home Secretary update we on the progress be make towards the roll - out of a network of youth hub , and will she support Tracy ' s campaign ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s constituent Tracy for campaign in memory of Cameron . too many young life be be lose . that be why we be set up the Young Futures programme , with youth hub but also prevention partnership , to work across the country . in recent week , the number of channel crossing have be far high than the Home Office expect , which be why we have see Ministers rapidly approve new asylum hotel . we be tell that the situation be temporary , because asylum claim be apparently now be process fast and people be be move through accommodation fast too . what reassurance can the Home Secretary give my constituent that the fast processing of asylum claim , with no deterrent in the system , will not simply act as a massive incentive for more people to come here on small boat ? I have to tell the hon . member that unfortunately the previous Government cut asylum decision make by 75 % in the run - up to the election , and they take away caseworker . that be why the backlog be soar . we have now put caseworker back in place so that we can start clear the backlog , because asylum hotel be cost the taxpayer huge amount of money . disabled woman be almost three time more likely to experience domestic abuse and almost twice as likely to report sexual violence . do the Minister agree that it be important for not only her Department but the police to work with disabled woman - lead organisation to understand the intersection with gender - base violence and the double whammy that affect disabled woman ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I pay tribute to stay Safe East , one of very few specialist disability and domestic abuse charity . without " by and for " service , we simply would not be serve most of the woman in our country who need support . a report publish today show that 60 , 000 hour be take up each year investigate non - crime hate incident . do the Minister agree that confidence in the police could be restore if they prioritise their time and resource to investigate actual crime rather than hurt feeling ? this Government have make very clear what our priority be around safe street and where the focus should be for police : on halve knife crime and halve violence against woman and girl over the next decade . the Home Secretary have also be very clear that a common - sense approach must be take to non - crime hate incident . we will work with the inspectorate and the College of Policing on the matter . Speaker ' s Statement Lord Prescott before I call the Prime Minister , I should like to say a few word about our former colleague Lord Prescott . John be first elect to this House in 1970 , and he serve the people of Hull for four decade . he become deputy leader of the Labour party in 1994 — my father help on that campaign — and Deputy Prime Minister at the 1997 election . I have to say thank to John for come to Chorley to ensure that I have a new start as a Labour Member in Chorley . I will just share what John do . on that day , tragically , the press push an old lady over and her arm be break . the first thing John say be , " I must go to the hospital . " he go to hospital to see that lady as her cast be be put on . that be the kind of person John Prescott be . John play a major role in deliver the Kyoto protocol and be a great champion of regional government , integrate transport and affordable housing . after leave government , he become active in inter - parliamentary relation , lead the UK delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe . he be an effective politician , a highly respect colleague and a tower figure in the labour movement and in this House . he will be deeply miss , and all our thought be with Pauline and the family . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . thank you for those word , which John ' s family will have hear . there be many member of this House who serve their constituent faithfully . some deliver change for the entire country . very few enter into public consciousness , let alone public affection . but John Prescott achieve all those thing . he be absolutely unique and people love he for it . he have the most extraordinary life , from fail his 11 - plus to stewarding Anthony Eden on a cruise ship , to be deputy leader of — as he describe it — " the great party there be " , and the long - serve Deputy Prime Minister this country have ever have . it be an extraordinary life , yet ordinary people across the nation feel that he be one of they . he tell a story of a working - class lad make good who embody the aspiration of work people across the entire country . People feel recognise in the struggle they have — the snobbery and the small - mindedness that still plague politic even today — but they also feel that he understand and champion their ambition , their hope and their dream . John be a politician for work people through and through . that be who he always be . a proud son of Wales and an honorary son of the Humber , he serve the city of Hull for 40 year , as you say , Mr Speaker . everyone know that he love it as fiercely as he fight for it . everything he do be about make work people ' s live well . that be evident from his whole career , a career in which he be often ahead of his time . he lead on climate change , fight regional inequality , support the minimum wage , work to transform public transport , build council house and even complete the channel tunnel . in many way , he set the path that we walk today . make no mistake : he do thing his own way and forge his own path , and in do so he bring about some of the great transformation this country have ever see . John be the linchpin of new Labour , because beneath the pugnacious exterior he be a skilled negotiator , sometimes with immense and perhaps surprising sensitivity . he have an incredible skill , which be the ability to bring people together from different starting point — whether that be in his work on climate negotiation or close to home in his own party — to stand together in a well place . that sum up another thing that I think the public sense about John : that he be not in it for himself . he be willing to work with people he do not agree with , as well as challenge those he usually do agree with . he have great self - awareness and great humility , and if he disagree fiercely in private , he would do so and then defend the line — often improve because of his intervention — in public to the hilt . John be a team player and he be proud to play for team Labour . that be never more evident than during the campaign season when it be time to bring out the battle bus , a tradition that our Deputy Prime Minister proudly continue this year . the Prescott express be a morale boost to any campaign . it may have be arrive in a Tesco car park , but John be always meet with a reception like Beatlemania . and no wonder : the public be at the heart of John ' s politic and it be clear that the public have a particular place in their heart for he , too . that be key to his popularity . indeed , after the famous incident it be the public who come out swinge for he . that night , Labour campaigner be anxiously dispatch to the most accurate focus group that there be , the local pub , to hear what people be say . the report be clear : the public have his back , just as he have always have theirs . Tony Blair , my predecessor , say simply , " John be John . " and he be . John be John , and he will live on in Labour legend , in the memory of everybody who be in this House now and who serve when he be in the House , and in the affection of the nation . we remember today his wife Pauline , and we send our love and condolence to his family and his loved one . we stand with the people of Hull and work people across the country to say , " thank you , John , for a lifetime of service , for a genuine character and for a change nation . " may he rest in peace . I call the Leader of the Opposition . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . on behalf of the Opposition , I pay tribute to the late John Prescott . Lord Prescott will be remember for many thing : as a committed Member of Parliament for his beloved constituency of Kingston upon Hull East , as a formidable campaigner for the cause he believe in , and for his public service as Deputy Prime Minister . as I say last week , he be a true patriot and have a unique way of connect with the electorate . many of we do not know he personally , but his strength of personality be feel . for those of we who come into politic during the new Labour era , our experience of politic be shape by Lord Prescott . he be a lead figure in make the Labour party under Tony Blair electable , after endure four consecutive election defeat . in the process of broaden his party ' s appeal , he ensure that Labour think about the need , value and aspiration of regular people across this country , not just those of a metropolitan elite . he be often underestimate , yet by all account he be an intelligent , amusing and relentlessly hard - work man with great political instinct . although I would doubtless have disagree with he on many thing , I would have love the opportunity to argue with he about make our country well . in pay tribute to the late Lord Prescott , I express heartfelt condolence on behalf of myself and my party , and I send sincere condolence to his family , his friend and his colleague . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I pay tribute not just to my predecessor as the Member of Parliament for Kingston upon Hull East , but to a family friend of over 50 year . in do so , I send my heartfelt condolence to Pauline and the family . many will remember John as a political giant , and indeed he be , but he be also a gentle giant to many . John always have time to chat to anyone who stop he . many member will speak today of the great work he do both inside and outside this House , but I want to speak about the John we know in east Hull , both as our MP and as a very dear friend , as he be to many . East Hull be John ' s adoptive home , and it become a strong part of his identity . everyone in east Hull have their own story about John , include those he help , and there be many thousand of they . one of John ' s big legacy in Hull be the £ 55 million regeneration of the Preston Road estate in the heart of the constituency as part of the new deal for community . I be tell that John be the person in the Cabinet who spearhead that programme . I have have the great pleasure and honour of know John all my life . as kid we enjoy family holiday with the Prescotts , and I still keep a picture on my office desk of I , JP and the family hurtle down a log flume . I keep it for a reason : because John be clearly enjoy it the most . one year , John decide that we be go to Loch Ness to find Nessie . we do not find Nessie , but we have the most amazing time , with memory we will never forget . during the voyage , Captain John think it would be fun to throw his watch overboard to test our diving skill — as kid , we do not realise that John be an expert diver — but it sink too far . we begin to panic a bit , but John , with a big grin on his face , dive overboard . he be miss for more than a few minute , we think , but he come up on the other side of the vessel , hold the watch with a massive grin on his face . John ' s legacy will always be etch on the heart of those he serve and the city that he love . there will never be another jp , and no member of this House will ever be able to connect with the voter quite like he do . he truly be one of a kind . John ' s spirit and approach to politic will live on in all of we who be inspire by he and by his dedication and commitment to the cause . rest in peace , comrade . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I be never on John Prescott ' s Christmas card list , but I do have the interesting task of shadow he in the early noughtie for three year , and I feel like I get to know he . my respect for he grow , though I be never sure whether it be entirely reciprocate . I would occasionally tour the media studio with he , and on one occasion John be get his make - up on and clearly have not realise that I be outside the door . he say to his aide , " be that bloody Liberal here again ? " we speak more in later year , when I be Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change , as John always retain a deep and well - inform interest in all thing climate , with his significant , globally recognise role in secure the Kyoto climate treaty . the Government ' s chief climate negotiator in my time , the brilliant but sadly depart Pete Betts , have also be John ' s key negotiator at Kyoto . Pete would tell the story of how John ' s sheer energy and staying power be crucial to the success of those negotiation , and how John would tour the negotiate room throughout the night , utter the great phrase : " I ' m walk . I ' m talk . " our path also cross in the great city of Kingston upon Hull , when we eventually manage to get Siemens to invest in a wind turbine manufacturing facility for offshore wind farm . there be a celebration on the day when the first sod be turn to build the factory , and the reception be hold in what be call the Deep — a huge tourist attraction , which John have play a crucial role in make happen , down by the marina in Hull . the Deep be the UK ' s home to several specie of shark . as we walk around it , be instruct about shark , we be reliably inform that shark can be very friendly , and though he would never admit it in public , John be always very friendly to I . he be a trailblazer and an inspiration , even plunge into the Thames in a wetsuit to make an important point about water pollution — exactly the sort of savvy , effective campaigning that I for one admire . John will be miss by very many people , so on behalf of bloody Liberals everywhere , I send my heartfelt condolence to Pauline , John ' s child and grandchild , and all his family and many friend . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . as chair of the parliamentary Labour party , I echo the tribute make by the Prime Minister and send our thought and love to John ' s family . at the PLP meeting tonight , we will have a chance to reflect on his enormous contribution to the country and the party . as a former labour organiser , I can tell the House that he be belove by our member . they would move mountain in Wales to go and see he , although he himself say : " when I do die , after 50 year in politic , all they will show on the news be 60 second of I thump a fellow in Wales " , the many , many tribute over the weekend rightly reflect his immense contribution to the country , which should never be underestimate : his drive to improve council housing ; his championing of the minimum wage ; his leadership on climate change — climate action before it be a thing . a true socialist and thoroughly authentic , he care only about make people ' s live well . to go back to that punch , there be many other here today who be close friend with John , or who work with he and know he far well than I ; we be , however , connect by one event , for I , as a youngish general secretary of the Welsh Labour party , organise his visit to Rhyl — clearly not very well , although he never seem to hold it against I , and he do not get I sack , which be an enormous relief at the time . there be so much that I could say about that day . he be a trooper . he go back inside immediately after the punch and do this rather strange comedy show at the Little Theatre , but I will not test your patience , Mr Speaker . the definitive guide be in Matt Forde ' s podcast with Martin Angus , which I would recommend to all member . for those of we in the background of the footage , it never go away . although John be right that the clip have be show again a million time over the weekend , his legacy be always far big than a GIF . he will be much miss by our big Labour family . I call the Father of the House . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I serve in this place with John Prescott for many year , and I admire he from afar as be a true labour man and a man of true grit . I be not sure that my admiration of he be reciprocate , but I hold he in great affection . my first memory of he be in 1983 , when I arrive in this place as a new Member of Parliament . I give a speech , during which I could see John grunt and look furious . he probably think I be an absurd , young , opinionate thatcherite brat — and he be probably right . talk of Mrs Thatcher , my next memory of he be when I see he have a quiet supper in the little member ' canteen we use to have downstair . the moment my boss , Mrs Thatcher , come in , I could see John wave his hand in fury at she for all that she have do . Neil Kinnock lean over and say , " calm down , John , calm down . " I think , " here be a man of real strong opinion . " we have so many anaemic politician today — I be not look at anybody in particular — so it be wonderful to have a man like John Prescott on the Opposition Benches . John much mellow and it be a great joy to serve with he on the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe . I remember he say that his child want he to go on " strictly come dancing " , but he decide not to . that would have be something for the history book — John Prescott on " strictly come dancing " ! as a local Member of Parliament , I pay tribute to John Prescott . I use to take my child to the Deep , and he do a great many thing for Hull . I wish hon . member could have watch Look North , our local television news programme , and see the tribute pay by local people , who say how love he be in Hull and how hard he work for the people . he be a great man and he will be sorely miss . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I be deeply sadden to hear about the death of John Prescott . I send my condolence to Pauline , his son and all those who be close to he . I consider he to be a good friend of mine and of Mansfield . he be a giant of a man and a champion of the coalfield , devolution , local government and climate action . I first meet John in the 1980 , as an activist in the Labour party , and enjoy support he in his first campaign to be deputy leader in 1988 , and in his campaign to be leader and deputy leader in 1994 . his legacy include set up the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , which be establish to help support former coalfield area in community such as Mansfield that have be impact by the pit closure programme of the 1980 and 1990 . that help ensure that my area receive million of pound of funding . John have a particularly strong link to my constituency of Mansfield , especially through my labour predecessor , Sir Alan Meale , who be his parliamentary private secretary for some year . anecdotally , I can recall many endearing memory of John , include a time when we be play table tennis in Sir Alan ' s front yard in Mansfield . it be a lovely sunny day and we be enjoy our game in the garden , on a day when the Prime Minister be out of the country on business . an important call come through that John have to take , and we pause our game . to this day , I have no idea who it be or what be say , but the conversation clearly distract John so much that when he arrive back , he hit the ball with such force that it bounce right off the table and hit the ministerial car . from that experience , I can assure the House that the left hook still pack a mighty punch . in the year after John leave office , I would often drive he back to the station at Newark or Doncaster after his many visit to Mansfield , so he could get the train to London or back home to Hull . the insight from his frank and honest recollection of history from the Blair and Brown year will stay with I for a very long time . may he rest in peace . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . when I first arrive in the House , it be common in the conservative party — the Thatcherite Conservative party , I say to my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) — to view John Prescott as public enemy no . 1 . it be an act that he love play into , in public at least . that be say , outside the studio or the Chamber , he be friendly and helpful , certainly to I . indeed , he be almost the good possible constituency neighbour one could want . John Prescott be quintessentially a working - class hero — an identity that I suspect the current Deputy Prime Minister also adopt . of course , he be a brilliant constituency ally and a forceful defender of the interest of the people of Hull , with the emphasis on force . however , he be also a necessary champion of the new Labour party . the Prime Minister refer implicitly to the fact that John Prescott deliver one man , one vote . we should remember that it be an act of huge courage for he to take on his own union ally , I think at about one hour ' s notice , and persuade they to support the neophyte Tony Blair . frankly , despite the snobbery of the London establishment about John Prescott ' s education , it be a very unwise person who underestimate his intellect . he be a formidable and brilliant innovator on — I be look at the Environment Secretary — the environment , on Europe , on devolution and on a whole range of thing . he be what we would all hope to be : not a creature of history , but a changer of history . for that , we should always admire he . to put to one side all those grand thing , he be also greatly , greatly love by his family . on that basis , I offer my condolence to Pauline and the rest of the family . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I want to add my own few word to the tribute that have be make , and especially to welcome the comment from my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull East ( Karl Turner ) , which be so warm and personal . John Prescott ' s great many achievement — his commitment to climate change and other matter — have already be speak of . he be a truly authentic working - class hero , and somebody who always attract a crowd wherever he go . he persevere with his famous battle bus through good time and poor one . what may sometimes be miss be his commitment to devolution , and the great effort he make in the north - east of England , where he commit to the campaign for a north - eastern assembly . we be not successful on that occasion — the referendum be not win — but , ultimately , John ' s legacy prevail in the devolved institution and authority that we have see ever since . on a personal note , I want to put on record my thank to John for his personal support to I . I find myself propel on to the shadow Front Bench a little bit prematurely and unexpectedly , but he be of great support to I in discharge the transport brief . he retain such immense knowledge , and on every single occasion he offer encouragement , for which I will be eternally grateful . he be a true giant of the Labour movement . we will miss he enormously , but his legacy remain . I , too , pass on my sincere condolence to Pauline and to all his family . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . on behalf of the Scottish National party , I pass on our sincere condolence to Pauline , to John ' s family and to his many friend , colleague and comrade right across the Labour movement . you have lose a colossus of a man , and an inspiration to working - class people right across the United Kingdom who be encourage by his example to go into politic . I remember come down here as a new MP in 2001 and observe the Labour Front Bench — titans , all of they , and all know to the UK public , but dominant among they be John Prescott , and it be John Prescott the public want to hear from . when he appear on the tv screen , the public pay attention and listen to what he have to say . he resonate with the british public , who hold he in a curious affection . if what he have could have be bottle , I be sure we would all take a little sup of it today . I will never forget where I be , as a candidate in 2001 , when that famous incident come in that the hon . member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) refer to — who could ? I think we all know where we be . I be with a bunch of sixth - former at a husting at Brechin high school , and one of the senior pupil say to I , " if it ' s like that every day in your political life , I want a bit of that . " there ' s inspiration for you , Mr Speaker . John be a huge music fan and a great supporter of our music act , MP4 . we could never quite master the jazz that he seem to favour — although maybe as a tribute to he we will get round to do one of those number — but it be something he completely love . everyone have talk about John ' s commitment to climate change , but there be also his commitment to devolution , which a few colleague have mention . John Prescott be the engine who drive that path towards a Scottish Parliament and the regional assembly which will be happen as a matter of course with this new Labour Government . John be part of a generation that we be sadly begin to lose , but he will stand out as one of the true great parliamentarian in this House of the past few decade and we will all miss he dearly . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . it be wonderful to hear all the various tribute to John and I want to share my own memory of he . as some have mention , when it come to campaigning , his big thing be his battle bus — who would not love tour the country eat sweet with Martin Angus ? I be sure my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) will attest to that . I have my own memory of John ' s battle bus from after the 2005 election . he get a small group of we together and we tour London as commuter be on their way to work , at around 7 . 30 or 8 o ' clock in the morning . John be on the tannoy thank they all individually for vote Labour and for another five year of a Labour Government . watch people literally stop in the street , confuse that a bus be talk to they , only to discover that it be actually the Deputy Prime Minister talk to they , be incredible . John then take we all to his flat , where , despite have have no sleep at all , he make we bacon sandwich and tea . that be John at his good : generous , indomitable and completely unpredictable . John ' s incredible achievement and those of that Labour Government will stand the test of time . he be the cement that keep the broad church of those New Labour government together and we will always remember he for that . I also want to say that last year my father die of Alzheimer ' s , and it be very difficult , in those early day , to remember the man who be , before that cruel disease take he away . I really do hope that Pauline and John ' s family be listen to the wonderful tribute that be be pay here in this House and around the country , so that they can remember the extraordinary man that John be and the extraordinary life that he live . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I first collide — if that be the right word — with John Prescott when I be shadow Secretary of State for Transport as he plough on with his integrated transport plan , which be one of the centrepiece of the first Blair Administration . I find that some of my colleague try to treat John Prescott as a bit of a joke . that be a mistake . yes , we tease he about his two jag , and he rather love that , but he be utterly sincere in what he do , passionate , and pretty brutal with his opposition opponent when he feel he be on top . we clash again over the proposal for regional assembly . great campaigner though he be , he lose the north - east referendum , and I do not think he ever really forgive I for that . when require , however , John could be a great statesman . he be right to insist on a public inquiry into the Marchioness disaster , which the previous Government have refuse to hold , and he be right immediately to announce an inquiry into the Paddington rail disaster as soon as it happen . I recall get one of the most surprising telephone call of my political life when , have tell the conservative conference that he be right to call that public inquiry and that we should wait for its outcome , I get a call from he to thank I for that bit of bipartisanship — something even he be capable of when the camera be not look . I pay tribute to John for that , because the Cullen inquiry come up with a completely new safety regime for rail , include a rail accident investigation branch for the Department for Transport . we have not have a public inquiry into a rail accident ever since , because of the safety regime that he implement follow the inquiry . every survivor of the Paddington rail crash and subsequent rail crash be grateful to he for what he do for passenger safety on our railway . if for nothing else , we should remember he for that . I send my good wish to John ' s family and to all his friend and colleague on the Government Benches at this sad time . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I will share two particular memory of Lord Prescott . the first be from my time work for the disability charity Scope . we have decide as a campaign team to use the 1997 general election to highlight the many obstacle that disabled people face when exercise their democratic right to vote . I and my campaign colleague devise the " Polls Apart " campaign , which include a special campaign pack for candidate . bear in mind that this be in the halcyon day before email , a campaign pack be something of a rarity . we print , staple and post out hundred of pack to candidate the length and breadth of the UK , include one to the labour candidate for Kingston upon Hull East . off it go , send second class . to our amazement , a week or so later , a reply come back say that Mr Prescott not only support the campaign , but have write to all of Labour ' s candidate in his capacity as the general election co - ordinator , instruct they to take the campaign action that our pack suggest . More than that , when Labour be elect a few week later , he bring forward amendment to the Representation of the People Act to make it easy for disabled people to exercise their right to vote . I have meet John Prescott a few year before that , when I work for the then Member of Parliament for Streatham , the right hon . Keith Hill . both John and Keith be member of the RMT parliamentary group , which be as broad and diverse as its talent be deep . I ask Keith ahead of my remark today if he have any particular memory of John that I might share with the House , and he tell I of one from his time as a Minister in the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister . John and Keith be due to make a presentation on Labour ' s housing growth area to the Prime Minister , Tony Blair , in the Cabinet Room one morning at 9 am . at 4 am , John be still work on the presentation . he decide that he need to know about the rail connection between Cambridge and Oxford , so he phone Network Rail . member can doubtless imagine the startled reaction of the poor Network Rail official who answer that call at 4 o ' clock in the morning from someone claim to be the Deputy Prime Minister , who have a very specific question about east - west rail link . Tony Blair be equally amazed at 9 am . " and do he tell you what the rail connection be ? " , ask the pm . " there aren ' t any , " reply John — " we ' re go to change that . " now , thank to the Budget , that change will finally be deliver — a fitting tribute , perhaps , to the work ethic , energy and enthusiasm for change that John Prescott exemplify . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . my condolence to Pauline and all of John ' s family at what must be a truly devastating time for they . David use to work in my office , and he send I a message just after John die . he be very close to his father and see he as his hero and his friend . we send our condolence to all of they . I obviously know John in the House for many year . when he be first elect along with Dennis Skinner , they share a flat in Clapham . I do not know what go on in that flat , but while they be good friend , they be very different character . I later learn that after the last vote take place in the House , Dennis and John would both leave to go back to the flat , but they never travel together . Dennis always make sure that he get there first , so that he could get hold of the one television in the flat , turn it on and watch the dart , the snooker or whatever else . John would turn up and want to watch " Newsnight " , and Dennis refuse to change the channel — he would say , " no way . you ' ll watch the dart with I . " you can imagine the repartee and the argument that would have go on between they , which would have be incredibly funny . in the 2017 election , John offer to help in any way he could , and he be fantastic . we do several event together . one day , we start in Hull in the morning with the launch of our art manifesto , and then go on a tour all around Yorkshire and Humberside in the famous bus . John seem to know the owner of every fish and chip shop in the whole of Yorkshire , and insist on stop at every one , so we have a big supply of fish and chip all day long . then we get to Scarborough , where we be do a rally in the pavilion by the seafront . John and I get up to speak on the stage , and I do not think a lot of the people there realise that a political rally be go on . they think they be just there enjoy the sunshine , and then these two guy get up on the stage and start talk . the people love John , because he bring out Freddie the fox . we have a long discussion about the evil of foxhunt — the evil of Tory foxhunt . " the Tories be always go to bring back foxhunting . the Tories would kill the fox . " then he pull Freddie out of his coat and say , " look at poor Freddie here . they ' re go to tear he apart . that ' s what the Tories do to you . " he be love for all of that . I want to say thank you to John for what he do , but also to remember that one of the crucial point in his political career be the issue of climate change and Kyoto . it be not easy , popular or normal ; a lot of people refuse to even consider what we be do to the natural world and the environment , and how there be limit to what we can do , hence the protocol that John negotiate and sign up to . he be one of the people who be very important in start to change the global debate about climate change and respect for the natural world and the environment . we should all say thank you to John Prescott for that . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . the first time I meet John Prescott in his role as Deputy Prime Minister be in 1997 , when he open up Admiralty Arch to 60 young homeless people as part of the winter shelter programme . it be a bitterly cold winter , and at the time , the Conservative Back Bencher Crispin Blunt say that this project would be treat a historic building as if it be a " flagship for undesirable " . give that John be frequently describe as an undesirable by many of his opponent throughout his life , he take that as a badge of honour , and he be really proud of that homelessness project . I will never forget the way he share breakfast with those rough sleeper and take a real interest in every one of their life . it be a testimony to his compassion , his practical politic , and his unwavering commitment to housing policy . many million of council tenant see home improvement — new window , new door and home insulation — and none of they will ever forget that . those be the basic that many of we take for grant , but which far too many people lack at the time . in a superb biography by my late former colleague on the Independent , Colin Brown , naturally entitle " fight Talk " , there be a lovely and tell quote from John : " there be those priest of the Left who want to keep their conscience and there be those who will get their hand dirty . I belong to the dirty hand brigade . " John be regularly patronise and frequently under - estimate , but he have the last laugh by deliver for real work people . for that , we be all grateful . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . in the last six month of 2005 , the United Kingdom take over the rotate presidency of the European Union , and Prime Minister Blair want to make a big success of it . one of his concern be that there be a young british MEP who be prone to behave very badly in the Chamber and be particularly rude to visit head of State , so John Prescott be send to see I . he himself , of course , have serve as an MEP and be a big project supporter — he love everything about the European Union — so he come to explain to I that it would be very bad for Britain if I be to stand up and cause a scene when Prime Minister Blair be speak . I will not say that he threaten I , but I certainly feel deeply intimidate and behave myself impeccably over the course of the next six month . that be the bruiser John Prescott perhaps . a couple of year later , on Remembrance Sunday , when the ceremony be over and the parade have finish , I be walk up Whitehall and there , to my astonishment , walk on his own and without any security , be the Deputy Prime Minister . I say hello and wonder what he be do . John have see a group of Arctic convoy veteran on the other side of Whitehall . a seafarer himself , he have go over to speak to the man who have endure such appalling hardship during the last couple of year of the war , and say to they , " I ' m go to fight to make sure that you guy get a campaign medal after all these year , recognise what you ' ve do . " they do get the medal , and I get the message . I understand why he have be so phenomenally successful from humble root : he connect , he get on with people and he be very human . we mourn his passing , but perhaps we also mourn the passing of big working - class character in politic . we need far more of they . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . as you well know , John have many connection with the north - west of England . he go to school on the Wirral . he be a parliamentary candidate in Southport , and he return there to campaign in the 2017 general election . he be a seafarer out of Liverpool , and he be present with a trophy by Anthony Eden , whom the Prime Minister mention . the trophy be for win a boxing bout on board ship , and it be there that he hone the craft that may have lead to what he be know so famously for later on . when I come here in 2010 , I bump into John in the Committee corridor , where he be sit at a desk work . he say he be there because , despite be a former Deputy Prime Minister , he have to share an office with four other Members of the House of Lords — he have recently be ennoble — and he moan about the fact that there be no preferential treatment for he . however , despite the moan , he be get on with the job , as John always do . my favourite story of he be when , during the 2010 election campaign , the battle bus turn up on grand national day outside Aintree racecourse . he have a campaign to keep the grand national free - to - air on terrestrial tv , and there he be with his loudspeaker harangue the racegoer to come and sign his petition , which they do in drove . not only do they sign the petition , but they queue in large number for selfie with John . that go to the point about the affection in which he be hold , and the impression that John make that day will stay with I forever . when I come here and be serve in this place , as he be serve in the Lords , he be a source of terrific advice to I , and I be proud to have count John as a friend over the year . I send my good wish to Pauline , David and the rest of his family . may John rest in peace . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . when I be elect for Beverley and Holderness in 2005 , John Prescott , the MP for neighbour Kingston upon Hull East , be of course already a legend . he be the word - mangle , fast - fiste former bar steward who have , for the last eight year , be Deputy Prime Minister of this United Kingdom . hear the tribute from across the House and all the way in which that one man be able to influence history and make a difference be , I hope , an inspiration to aspirant working - class politician all over the country , but also to people in this House . I know John from a few year before I enter Parliament . he come to Cambridge for a transport summit , so I organise a demonstration against it and stand outside all day . the day go on and he do not come out . when eventually he do come out , I be just about the only demonstrator leave . I immediately berate he and his entourage , and we have a surreal dance around the car park , before he go up to a Jaguar and try to get in : it be not his . I think it take he quite some time to forgive I for that . I regularly see John — as do colleague from Hull , such as the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who be sit on the Government Front Bench — on hull train , and he be normally surround by paper at a four - place table that he be try to keep entirely to himself . although he be gruff , he be also engage . he would often come to Beverley , when Pauline would go shop and he would go to the Royal Standard pub , the fine establishment in Beverley , where he be always very welcome , and people to this day hold he in the high regard . as have be remark , he lead our delegation to the COP at Kyoto in 1997 , and be widely regard as the key element in deliver its historic outcome , the first time an international agreement be make to recognise and cut climate emission . the former US Vice - President Al Gore say that he have " never work with anyone in politic … quite like John Prescott . " John continue to take climate issue seriously , and we would have passionate and rather loud conversation on the train as we go to and fro from east Yorkshire . when I lead our delegation to last year ' s COP , the first to commit to phase out fossil fuel , I know my team and I be follow in the footstep of someone who may have come from a humble background but go on to change the world . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . over two month ago , I rise to give my maiden speech in this Chamber , open with a comical line about one of my constituency ' s most famous son , Lord John Prescott . although I be sad to be commemorate his passing today , it be important to reflect on the indelible mark that he have leave on british politic . a formidable character , John Prescott be a political giant but never stop be one of we : an ordinary , down - to - earth , working - class man . the ambition of John and other for community like his as part of a trailblaze Labour Government be the reason why so many of we be here today . often underestimate by both his political ally and enemy , he be the glue that hold the Labour Government together and see it deliver so much . personally , I know he little more than as an overly keen teenager at Labour party conference ask for a selfie with a political hero — he do oblige , although in his customary unimpressed fashion — but his impact on I and so many on the Labour Benches have be huge . on behalf of the people of Clwyd East , I say a fond farewell to one of our own , a treasured son of north Wales , a political trailblazer , and a true one - off . my thought be with Pauline and his family . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I want to add to all the warm tribute to John . I get to know he and encounter he outside of a political context . it be a matter of record that towards the end of his time as Deputy Prime Minister he have several bout of ill health and be admit to hospital on a couple of occasion , and he be admit to the critical care unit where I be a nurse at the time . he make an incredible impression on I and my fellow staff . he be a really great patient , which , let ' s face it , can not be say of every vip that cross into a ward . he be warm and fun , and abrasive in the right way and challenge in the right way . one of my most abide memory be be summon in to see the Deputy Prime Minister because his hospital food be rubbish . he want to complain about that ; I hope that be the only time a Deputy Prime Minister call I in to criticise I for something that I be responsible for , but you never know . it be a testament to he that , after that spell in hospital , he invite all the staff who have look after he to do a big tour , in a very John Prescott way , at Admiralty House , where he take we all through the back corridor of Whitehall , entertain we with great bit of history and anecdote and finish up with a mock auction . he have acquire a lot of geegaw and knick - knack from all his diplomatic visit abroad , and he be throw they out , with his very strong arm , for people in the room to catch . I hope that many of those people , include colleague of mine at the time , still have some of those item and will treasure they . I give my heartfelt condolence to Pauline and to John ' s family . the House be always at its good at these time , and I be sure that John would have be smile at the tribute ; they be fantastic . the only thing I would add be that John manage to divide Hull into two when he become a " Robin " , but we will leave it at that . Israel - Gaza conflict : arrest Warrants ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the Government ' s response to the decision take by the International Criminal Court ' s pre - trial chamber I to issue arrest warrant in respect of the Israel - Gaza conflict . last Thursday , judge at the International Criminal Court issue arrest warrant for the israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant and the reportedly deceased Mohammed Diab Ibrahim al - Masri , commonly know as Deif , commander - in - chief of the military wing of Hamas . the ICC be the primary international institution for investigate and prosecute the most serious crime of international concern . it be actively investigate allegation of the grave crime in country around the world , include Ukraine , Sudan and Libya . in line with this Government ' s state commitment to the rule of law , we respect the independence of the ICC . we will comply with our international obligation . there be a domestic legal process through our independent court that determine whether to endorse an arrest warrant by the ICC in accordance with the International Criminal Court Act 2001 . that process have never be test , because the UK have never be visit by an ICC indictee . if there be such a visit to the UK , there would be a court process , and due process would be follow in relation to those issue . there be no moral equivalence between Israel , a democracy , and Hamas and lebanese Hezbollah , two terrorist organisation . this Government have be clear that Israel have a right to defend itself in accordance with international law . that right be not under question , and the Court ' s approval of the warrant last week do not change that . Israel be of course a partner across UK priority , include trade , investment , security and science and technology . we co - operate across a wide range of issue for our mutual benefit . this Government remain focused on push for an immediate ceasefire to bring an end to the devastating violence in Gaza . that be essential to protect civilian , ensure the release of hostage and increase humanitarian aid into Gaza . we have always say that diplomacy be what will see an end to this conflict , and that can only be achieve through dialogue . it be in the long - term interest of the Israelis , Palestinians and the wide region to agree to a ceasefire deal urgently and bring this devastating conflict to an end . the International Criminal Court ' s decision to issue arrest warrant for the state of Israel ' s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and its former Defence Minister Yoav Gallant will do nothing to help secure the release of those poor hostage , who have be hold captive by Hamas for more than a year . it will not help to get more aid into Gaza , and it will not deliver a sustainable end to this awful conflict . in charge israeli leader alongside Hamas , the ICC appear to be draw a moral equivalence between Israel ' s war of self - defence and Hamas terrorism . we utterly reject any moral equivalence . the only beneficiary of this decision be Hamas and their terrorist sponsor , Iran , who be now celebrate this propaganda coup as a great victory for Hamas and Hezbollah . since the ICC ' s decision , we have have dither from Ministers , confused messaging and no clarity , so I be grateful to the Minister for his remark today . the Government have indicate already that they will seek to enforce these warrant through our own court , and there be a process around that . on the issue of warrant , we have express serious concern over process , jurisdiction and the position on the complementarity principle . we believe that the warrant for Mr Netanyahu and Mr Gallant have no basis in international law . do the Government believe that the Court have jurisdiction in this case , give that Israel be not party to the Rome statute and Palestine be not a recognise state ? do the Minister agree that the ICC must act within legal norm ? in the absence of the ICC make public the specific context of the charge , do the Minister share the concern express about report of process error in the ICC ' s investigation and the concern express by Lord Macdonald , the former Director of Public Prosecutions , about the use by the prosecutor of an expert panel ? finally , but crucially , what effect do the Minister believe that Mr Netanyahu ' s immunity under international law as a serve Prime Minister of a country that be not a state party have on enforce these warrant in the UK ' s own court ? these be important question on which I look forward to the Minister ' s response . he have already speak about secure the release of hostage and more aid come into Gaza , but at this time when such a conflict be take place , it be important that we have clarity from the Government . I welcome the question from the right hon . member across the Benches . utmost in the Government ' s mind be the need to bring an immediate end to the conflict in Gaza and to secure the release of the hostage , whose family I have meet . she know that I be familiar with these issue from my previous life . we also need to see more aid go into Gaza . the question at issue with the ICC be separate from that . diplomacy will continue regardless of the ICC process . but I have understand it to be the common position of the House that the international rule of law be an important commitment . the International Criminal Court be an important body — the primary body — in enforce those norm , and the issue on jurisdiction and complementarity be hear by the pre - trial chamber . its three judge issue their finding . I think we should respect those . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the International Criminal Court be create when 120 country put their name to the Rome statute and sign up to the principle that certain basic standard of behaviour must be enforce internationally , with those law applicable to everyone , no matter who they be . from the time when Winston Churchill lead the Conservative party , this country have be a proud supporter of international law . it be wrong for we to try to undermine it . do my hon . friend share my deep disappointment that the Conservatives have fall as far as they have ? as I think have be clear from our action from July when we become the Government , the international rule of law be incredibly important to this Government . all our action will be guide by it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the conflict between Israel and Hamas have have a devastating impact on palestinian and israeli civilian , with woman and child pay a particularly terrible price . now that the International Criminal Court have issue arrest warrant for those it believe be culpable , the UK have obligation under international law , which we must uphold . the previous Conservative Government choose to be selective with those obligation when it come to the ICC ' s jurisdiction in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . that be deeply regrettable and damaging for our country , and I greatly regret that Conservative Front - Bench Members be pursue that same line today . it be right that the Government have commit to uphold the ruling , and I welcome the Minister ' s statement that they will support the process to enforce the arrest warrant . do the Minister share my concern about the word of republican Senator Lindsey Graham , who have propose sanction nation — include the UK — who uphold the ruling ? will he outline the specific new step that the Government be take to secure an immediate bilateral ceasefire with all party , so that we can put a stop to the humanitarian disaster in Gaza , get the hostage home and open the door to a two - state solution ? every member of the Government — most particularly the Foreign Secretary and the rest of the Foreign Office ministerial team — be engage every day , include this morning , in press all party for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , for an immediate ceasefire in Lebanon , and for a de - escalation of violence in Gaza and the occupied Palestinian Territories , but also more broadly in the middle east , where violence remain far too high . the ICC have issue an arrest warrant for the Prime Minister of a democratic state that be a UK ally , have find that there be reasonable ground that he be responsible for war crime and crime against humanity . do that not call for action as well as word from the UK Government , which might include end trade with illegal settlement , the sanctioning of member of that Government and settler , and indeed recognition of the state of Palestine if we be to show not only our disapproval , but how we want to move forward ? I recognise my hon . friend ' s long commitment to these issue . as you would expect , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will not comment far on the ICC process , which need now to carry through in accordance with due process in the way you would expect . on sanction , which have be discuss before in the Chamber , I be not , in the usual way , at liberty to provide any further commentary on who we might consider for they . whatever reservation one may have about the conduct of the conflict in Gaza , there be two fundamental principle : first , Netanyahu be a democratically elect leader of a sovereign state ; and secondly , that state be conduct a legitimate war of self - defence . the Minister acknowledge those fact , but do he not appreciate how this ruling be see by many of my constituent as an affront to those principle ? I be slightly stump by the question from the opposition . we be signatory to the ICC Act . I think the whole House agree with the importance of the rule of law . representation be make to the ICC in the pre - trial chamber , and it have come to its decision . I think we should respect its independence . I find it shocking but not surprising that the conservative party have choose to downgrade and disparage the highly respected International Criminal Court . we be a nation that uphold the rule of law , so I be proud that the new Labour Government have choose to respect the independence of the ICC in its arrest warrant against Benjamin Netanyahu , Yoav Gallant and Mohammed Deif , on the basis that there be reasonable ground for their criminal responsibility for potential war crime . do the Minister agree that it be important that we respect the independence of that ICC judgment and that , if require , we implement those finding ? I be not really able to go much far than to say that there be a domestic legal process , through our independent court , that would determine whether to endorse an arrest warrant . we would follow due process in the way that hon . member would expect . this be a decision not for Ministers but for an independent court . the Minister may be aware that I have fight the corner for international court time and again in this House . I view uphold the authority of those court and their reputation as very important . the difficulty here be not just that Israel be a democracy , but that it have an internal , independent judiciary , which put a limit on what any Government can do in Israel . that be why equate — or appear to equate — Netanyahu with all the other monster that the International Criminal Court have quite properly prosecute risk bring the court into disrepute . I know that the right hon . Member have look at these issue over a long period of time . question of complementarity be important , and I understand that they be consider by the pre - trial chamber . several of our ally and international partner have outline their commitment to fully support the ICC , include Canada , the Netherlands , Sweden , Belgium and Ireland , so I welcome the Government ' s commitment to respect the independence of the ICC . do the Minister agree that it have a high evidential threshold for issue arrest warrant for alleged perpetrator , which have be demonstrate in this case ? the deliberation of the ICC on this matter have go on for some time . I think it be clear for all to see the way in which it have proceed , and I welcome it . last week I attend a memorial service for the people of Gaza with family of palestinian origin here in the UK — I believe the Minister have meet some of those representative . we hear from a woman call Kitam , who describe how , overnight , she lose 48 member of her family . as she walk back and sit behind I , she break down in sobs as she remember so painfully that day . she deserve justice . the issuing of a warrant be not justice . there be still a process to go through and a trial to be have . be it not right that , whatever the court , those outcome be adhere to ? may I press he on the ruling of the ICJ advisory opinion on the occupation ? that ruling be at the core of this : it should mean that we do much more than just meet those family and share in their pain . as the hon . Member allude to , I have meet those family , and many other family who have be so wound by the conduct of this conflict , over the course of the last year — family on both side , both the hostage family and the many , many Palestinians and Lebanese who have see their life so cruelly turn upside down . as I say early , in the end it be only diplomacy that will bring an end to the conflict . we will continue to have contact with all side , include those indict . we will continue to press all those with whom we engage to bring an early end to this war . on the icj , we have set out our position before . we be consider the judgment carefully . we have provide an explanation of our position so far in the United Nations . it be an important , far - reach judgment and we hope to be able to say more in due course . I welcome the Minister ' s confirmation that the UK will be uphold the ICC arrest warrant for the Hamas general and israeli leader . the ICC find ground to believe that Netanyahu and Gallant " each bear criminal responsibility for the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare ; and the crime against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane act . " it go on to refer to " the war crime of intentionally direct an attack against the civilian population . " on that last point , what moral justification be there now for continue arm sale use by israeli force at the behest of a Prime Minister accuse of such serious war crime ? when will we use every diplomatic lever to stop the killing , free all hostage and stop sell arm to a country lead by someone accuse of such horrific war crime ? I would like to just be clear that what I have say this afternoon be not that the Government will uphold arrest warrant . what I have be clear about this afternoon be that due process will be follow . these be question for independent court in the UK , and it be independent court that would review the arrest warrant if that situation be to arise . my hon . friend ask about aid . I want to be absolutely clear : insufficient aid be get into Gaza . I travel , myself , to the Gaza border and see the restriction Israel be put on aid reach Gaza . those restriction have be call out by I and other Foreign Office Ministers day in , day out . we be take step with our partner and our ally to try to ensure that people in Gaza have the aid they need as winter come in , in order to survive . these be grave matter and I understand the frustration right across the House that we have not see the amount of aid in Gaza that we would like to see . I recognise that people be ask for yet more to be do . on the specific question about the arm licence suspension announce to the House on 2 September , we will of course keep that under review . we will consider the finding of the ICC in relation to that assessment . last year , the Labour party have to be drag into accept that there be a collective punishment of the palestinian people . indeed , the hon . Gentleman ' s boss say that " war be ugly " . the Labour party early this year have to be drag into even utter the word ceasefire . will the Minister show the leadership that his boss fail to show , and say that if Benjamin Netanyahu ' s foot touch the ground in the UK he will comply with the arrest warrant ? the right hon . Member say with dismay that war be ugly . War be ugly and we be do everything that we can to bring it to a close through all the diplomatic measure we would expect . this be not an issue for grandstand ; this be an issue for diplomacy . that be what the Government be commit to . surely central to the debate today must be the UK ' s ongoing political role as Israel ' s close ally , and the fact that UK - make weapon , include component , be still be use by Israel . do the Minister recognise that beyond the commitment to uphold the ICC ' s arrest warrant , the UK ' s failure to clearly condemn the collective punishment of civilian — an intent explicitly indicate by key israeli lead figure — and the continued military support for Israel ' s ongoing onslaught in Gaza have serious implication for the UK ' s own human right obligation and the fate of million of innocent man , woman and child ? I will not rehearse too much the answer provide on 2 September and on numerous occasion in the Chamber since then . we have suspend , with one exemption — to which I be happy to return — all the arm that we be sell to Israel that could be use in Gaza . that suspension , in our assessment , also cover the west bank and Lebanon . we be take action in accordance with our commitment under international humanitarian law , and we will continue to do so . can we be absolutely clear about what the Government be say ? it seem that the Government be not say that there would be an automatic arrest should Benjamin Netanyahu arrive in this country , but they be say that there would due process . can the Minister confirm that " customary international law … do not permit the arrest or delivery of the serve Prime Minister of a non - State party to the ICC " ? so the Minister be commit himself to due process but not to arrest . be I correct in my understanding ? there be a domestic legal process through our independent court , and we can not prejudge that process . I note that the shadow Attorney General have write to the Attorney General about question of detail in relation to some of the point to which the hon . Gentleman have allude , and the Attorney General tell I that he will be write back on the subject of those more detailed point . while we watch and work tirelessly to secure a ceasefire in Gaza — which be really important simply because if child do not see an end in sight , neither do the family in Gaza — do the Minister agree that Britain ' s reputation on the world scene as a global leader in uphold justice would be undermine if Britain do not respect the independence of the ICC , which be what Conservative member be imply ? this Government think that adherence to international law , and be see to adhere to international law , be incredibly important , and in everything we have do since July we have seek to underline that principle , which I hope be one on which the whole House would support we . the Minister have assure we that the arrest warrant will be carry out , and I hope that be the case , but will he also consider this question ? if an arrest warrant have be issue for the leader of a country , and the International Court of Justice have find that country deeply want in respect of its behaviour as an occupy power and the war crime that have be commit , why be we still supply weapon that be be use in the bombardment of Gaza and destroy life as we speak ? as I say in answer to a question from my own Benches , we take step on 2 September to ensure that , with one exemption — which I be happy to go into — we be not sell arm that be be use and could pose a breach of international humanitarian law in Gaza . that continue to be the position , and it be keep under regular review . the ICC ' s decision be a crucial step towards ensure justice and accountability for the crime against humanity commit in Gaza and Israel . it be vital for the Government to act without fear or favour in order to uphold the international rule - base system . war crime be wrong whoever commit they and wherever they happen , whether they be commit by russian force in unlawfully occupy Ukraine or by israeli force on unlawfully occupy palestinian territory . will the Minister now review all diplomatic , economic and political relation with Israel to ensure that our country be not complicit in the atrocity that be take place in Gaza , the west bank and Lebanon ? I can confirm that the Department and the Government as a whole keep our international obligation under close review , include in relation to the theatre describe . last week I be in the west bank and see for myself the incursion by settler into the occupy Palestinian Territories . follow recent comment from Israel ' s far - right Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich , who describe in explicit term the active effort to annex the west bank into Israel , do the Minister agree that now be the time to sanction smotrich ? the comment of Finance Minister Smotrich have be condemn in this Chamber before , and we can reiterate that condemnation . as the hon . Lady would expect , however , we can not comment on sanction that may or may not be under consideration in the usual way . I be no friend of Hamas , but we must remember that Prime Minister Netanyahu promise we intelligence - lead precision attack in Gaza . we have see daily violation of international law , 43 , 000 people kill , restriction on food and aid , and 136 journalist kill . I welcome the Government ' s announcement about respect the ICC ' s decision , but may I urge they to consider use all lever , include sanction against two israeli Government Ministers , the settler in the west bank and other organisation operate therein ? I will not comment on what sanction may be under review , for reason that be well establish , but I draw my hon . friend ' s attention to the sanction that we take in October against israeli settler and organisation involve in both breach of international law and violence in the west bank . our close ally be the United States of America , and there have be widespread condemnation of the issuing of these arrest warrant across Congress . what effect do the Minister think this decision will have on our relationship with the United States of America , and particularly with the incoming Administration , who have very different view ? the UK be a state party to the Rome statute , and that bring with it obligation that put we in a different position from that of the US . we will continue to engage with both the current and incoming US Administrations in the share interest of our two country and across the full range of our priority . the atrocity that lead to the issuing of arrest warrant continue to this day , not least in healthcare facility , with devastating story come out of Gaza . my hon . friend have set out his frustration at aid not reach such facility , yet more sanction could be apply by this Government . why will he not escalate the UK ' s response to the israeli Government by introduce sanction so that they feel the real pain of our country but also understand that we want to ensure that justice be serve by the ICC ? I want to reassure the House about how focus the Government be on the question of aid access into Gaza . as I say , I have travel to the region and raise these issue repeatedly with all party , include the israeli Government . we need to see a flood of aid into Gaza . that have be the commitment of the israeli Government , and I regret that we have not yet see a flood of aid and that Palestinians be suffer as a consequence . winter be come , and Palestinians in Gaza be extremely vulnerable . we will continue to press the israeli Government to do everything that they can to ensure that more aid reach Gaza and , indeed , all part of the occupied Palestinian Territories that require it . I make these point forcefully this morning , and I will continue to do so . the ICC have issue arrest warrant for crime include direct attack on civilian . open - source information show that , on average , Royal Air Force reconnaissance flight be go over Gaza nearly four time a day . although we all seek the information necessary to gain the release of the hostage , how confident be the Minister that the information gather from those flight and share with Israel have not be use to facilitate any attack on civilian ? I will not go into operational detail , but I can assure the House that the surveillance aircraft be unarmed and do not have a combat role . they be task solely with locate hostage , include a british national , and they will continue to do so . in response to the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , I note that the UK under the previous Conservative Government sign an ICC state party statement in support of the ICC and to preserve it from political interference , just before the election . the Foreign Secretary have confirm the UK ' s acceptance of and respect for the ICC arrest warrant for Netanyahu ' s war crime . therefore , be it not now incumbent on the Government to take effective , concrete step to prevent further such act by ban all arm licence to Israel , include those relate to F - 35 part ; by impose sanction on individual , on asset and on good trading with the illegally occupy west bank ; and by the urgent recognition of palestinian statehood ? I will not rehearse the point that we have already discuss on sanction . the Foreign Secretary have set out our position in relation to the suspension of arm licence and the F - 35 exemption , and that remain the position . we will keep our assessment under regular review , include the finding of the ICC . frankly , I be disappointed that the Government be not give any clear response . I therefore ask this question . in October 2023 , over 800 expert in international law and in conflict and genocide study give a warning of clear prospect of genocide . in November 2023 , over 40 United Nations expert call it a " genocide in the making " . we then have the ICJ judgment that call it a " plausible " genocide , and a judge from the ICJ say : " the alarm have now be sound by the Court . all the indicator of genocidal activity be flash red in Gaza . " now we have an arrest warrant . do this Government stand by their conviction that genocide be not be commit in Gaza — yes or no ? it be important that we treat the international institution with the respect that they deserve . this be an indictment from the ICC and we respect it . the ICJ process to which the hon . Gentleman refer have not find ; it be at an advisory opinion stage . we need to treat international law with the respect that it deserve . the Minister will be aware that , as well as the ICC ' s recent decision to issue arrest warrant , there be now an entire body of international law , include the ICJ ' s advisory opinion , adopt by the UN General Assembly , rule Israel ' s occupation of the palestinian territory illegal , as well as South Africa ' s case at the ICJ on genocide , that point towards a clear position in international law . do the Minister therefore agree that if we be to preserve the integrity of the international rule - base order , we must start by end the international hypocrisy and double standard and reaffirm that all state , include the UK , have an absolute obligation under international law to act now to bring all those who commit war crime to justice ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I want to underline this Government ' s commitment in relation to accountability for war crime . we stand against international crime of this nature in all place , everywhere , and our commitment to international law be one of the most powerful lever we have in try to prevent war crime . I ask for the Minister ' s forgiveness because I do not hear whether he answer this question from my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary . be it his understanding that customary international law do not permit the arrest or delivery of a serve Prime Minister of a non - state party to the ICC , and that the UK seek to arrest such a Prime Minister would not only breach our international obligation but be unlawful under the International Criminal Court Act 2001 ? for the awareness of the House , the shadow Attorney General have write about the two different legal interpretation of immunity and have seek the Attorney General ' s view on these matter . I think the shadow Attorney General acknowledge that this be a case on which the court be the competent authority , but the Attorney General have undertake to respond to that letter in due course . the law be the law , and the evidence be the evidence . whether or not it be politically convenient or diplomatically helpful , the law be the law . the International Criminal Court have be clear , and my hon . friend be absolutely right to reject the Opposition ' s call to turn this into a political decision . it should remain an independent legal decision for our court and for the International Criminal Court , and the Minister should continue exactly as he be . I agree . I welcome the ICC ' s decision , and I sincerely hope that we will live up to our international obligation if the Prime Minister of Israel visit the UK . you have say yourself that you regret the fact that more aid be not get into Gaza , and that you have be call out the israeli Government for not let in more aid . be it not time to do more than just call out the israeli Government and tell they how angry you be ? be it not time to end all arm export to Israel , impose sanction , end trade with all the illegal settlement and recognise Palestine as a state ? we will continue to press these point with vigour , and we will continue to keep all other measure under review , as I have say . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I remind member not to use the word " you . " I think the Conservative party style itself the party of law and order , but it seem that that be increasingly not the case when it come to international law . the Government be right to uphold the ICC ' s decision , and they be right to vote for last week ' s UN Security Council resolution on a ceasefire . the Minister will be aware that there be increase evidence , include from organisation such as Human Rights Watch , of the forcible displacement of Palestinians from the north of Gaza . he will be aware that this be a crime against humanity , and that two of the main proponent be israeli Ministers Smotrich and Ben - Gvir . the Prime Minister have confirm that the Government be look at this , so when will the Government move to sanction those Ministers as part of a wide package of further action to uphold international law ? we follow report from northern Gaza closely and with concern , and we have repeatedly raise many of these issue . I will not comment far on sanction , but I wish to be clear that the forced displacement of Palestinians from Gaza be not consistent with Israel ' s obligation . do the Minister agree that one of our great tool against tyranny anywhere be that — friend or foe , rich or poor , elect or unelecte — the law apply to everybody , and that the universality of certain crime mean that they can be prosecute anywhere ? as I hope I have make clear this afternoon , this Government be commit to the international rule of law and will continue to be so . despite what the Minister have say , the Government concede at the royal court of justice last week that UK - make F - 35 part could be use in violation of international law in Gaza , and admit that Israel have show no commitment to uphold these legal obligation . despite this , the Government have continue to authorise offensive F - 35 arm export , expose themselves to criminal liability . it be disappointing that the Foreign Secretary be not here today , but will the Minister let our constituent know whether the Government will end their complicity in genocide , impose sanction and end all arm sale ? will he confirm that should Netanyahu , who face an ICC arrest warrant for war crime and crime against humanity , enter UK territory , he will be immediately arrest — yes or no ? I will return briefly to the Foreign Secretary ' s statement on 2 September , in which he say that " suspend all licence for the F - 35 programme would undermine the global F - 35 supply chain that be vital for the security of the UK , our ally and NATO . " — [ Official Report , 2 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 39 . ] he go on to set out how the suspension of arm licence would apply to the direct sale of F - 35 component to Israel but would not apply to the global supply chain . that continue to be the position . forty - three thousand dead ; possibly 100 , 000 under the rubble ; school and hospital destroy ; 16 , 000 child kill , include by drone and by be shoot in the head — many hon . member say that this be a genocide many month ago . now that the ICC prosecutor have call Benjamin Netanyahu a potential serious war criminal commit crime against humanity , do the Minister agree that now be the time to recognise the state of Palestine and end all military and financial co - operation with the israeli Government while their leader be essentially international fugitive ? I will not rehearse our position on the recognition of the state of Palestine , other than to say that we believe that the Palestinians have an inalienable right to a state alongside a safe and secure Israel . the Government hope to take step to advance that as part of a contribution to a two - state solution . the hon . member suggest , I think , no contact at all with the israeli Government as a consequence of the ICC ruling . it be only diplomacy that will bring an end to this conflict . we will continue to have direct contact , and in that direct contact we will continue to do all we can to secure an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage , aid into Gaza and a more safe , secure and stable middle east . I say this to my hon . friend as constructively as I possibly can : a number of we have sit here for month and have ask question about sanction , but the response from Ministers have be to say , " we can not comment on sanction in the House . " not only do that render sanction ineffective , but it break down the accountability of Ministers to this House . we deserve a well statement than that . on the legal process , my hon . friend have rightly say that we will respect international law and comply with the International Criminal Court ' s jurisdiction and decision . if I have get the wording right , he say that it will be for the domestic legal process involve . where do physical arrest come within that domestic legal process ? let I deal with why we do not provide advance comment on sanction , and then I will turn to the domestic legal process . I hear my right hon . friend . the reason that we do not provide commentary on sanction be that to do so in advance would reduce their effect . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office — my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , who be sit next to I — may correct I , but I think that we have probably issue upwards of 50 or maybe even 100 sanction in the short time we have be in government . there have be no shortage of sanction for this House to comment on . I recognise that the two on which I have most be press this afternoon be of intense political interest ; however , despite that intense political interest , if we be to prejudge sanction and trail they in this House before we make they , we would reduce their impact . the same be true of the hundred of sanction that we have place on Russia over the year , and it would be the same in every forum . in relation to the domestic legal process , I hope that my right hon . friend will forgive I for not enter too deeply into hypothetical about how a court might discharge its finding on these matter . Israel be a democracy . in the past , its court have show themselves unafraid to put even senior politician on trial . what assessment have the Minister make of the Israelis ' own ability to bring human right case in their own court ? this be describe in international law as the question of complementarity , and it be consider by the pre - trial chamber . give the independence of the ICC , I do not think it appropriate for I to offer further commentary . argument be make by various state on this matter , and the pre - trial chamber come to its finding . do the Minister agree that as well as demand an immediate ceasefire , the freeing of all hostage and unhindered aid get into Gaza , we must ensure that the perpetrator of heinous war crime and crime against humanity , whether they be friend or foe , be hold to account under international law base on justice that be blind , objective and impartial ? play politic with court undermine justice . I thank my hon . friend for his question . support for international criminal justice and accountability have traditionally be a matter on which we have have widespread support in this House . it will continue to be a priority for the British Government . the ICC , the world ' s high criminal court , have " reasonable ground " to allege that the israeli leader be guilty of war crime and crime against humanity . the other world court , the International Court of Justice , have find that there be " plausible " risk that Israel be commit genocide against Palestinians and that Israel ' s occupation and annexation be unlawful . I ask the Minister two question . first , do he agree that the UK have obligation under international law to prevent genocide , to bring Israel ' s unlawful occupation to an end and to bring suspect perpetrator of grave breach of international law to justice ? secondly and quite simply , what will the UK do differently as a result of the decision of the ICC and the ICJ ? the Minister say that he will pull out all the stop . we have hear many suggestion here today , include stop the export of F - 35s . what will the Government do differently ? do the Government accept that we have international obligation ? indeed we do . I have set out this afternoon how we would discharge they in relation to the ICC ; I have also set out the view that we take on the ICJ process . we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that there be proper international justice that all abide by . we be one of the ICC ' s major funder : we commit £ 13 . 2 million a year to ensure that the ICC can function properly . in everything that this government do , we be try to ensure the international rule of law , and we will continue to do so . the UK have a responsibility not just to respect the independence of international court , but to take active step to promote compliance with international obligation . when nation or leader have be accuse of commit war crime , the UK have hold itself up as a global leader in place sanction . it be unconscionable that in this situation we be yet to stop all sale of arm to Israel . if Israel be accuse of commit war crime , do the continue sale of any arm to Israel not make the UK potentially complicit ? give the gravity of the situation , will the Minister far clarify why he can not comment on sanction , or indeed on the other step that the Government be plan or willing to take to make clear the UK ' s condemnation of the continue slaughter of civilian in Gaza ? let I comment on arm sale , as they have be raise again . I will not rehearse the argument about the F - 35 exemption . in relation to the arm that be license to be sell to Israel , the category that have be suspend be the category that pose a risk of be involve in breach of international humanitarian law in Gaza . those weapon , we also believe , would be the weapon at issue in the west bank and in Lebanon . there be a second category of weapon that be for resale elsewhere , which be not relevant to event in Israel . there be a third category of weapon that be use either for defensive purpose or for purpose with which nobody in this House would disagree : body armour and helmet for aid worker go into Gaza , for example . I say gently to colleague across the House that there be not , in the rest of the arm sale , some solution to the dilemma that face we . the suspension of arm sale have be do carefully and have be aim at the potential breach of international humanitarian law . it have be reach carefully and judiciously , include in relation to the F - 35 . that remain the position . I have a degree of sympathy with the Minister , who have be ask to substitute in lieu of the Foreign Secretary today , so I will ask he a question of fact . do he recognise that pursuant to section 23 ( 6 ) of the International Criminal Court Act 2001 , representative of a non - state party to the Rome statute will remain immune from prosecution unless that non - state party expressly waive that right to the ICC ? I do not need sympathy , just careful listening . the same question be ask by the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , and the answer be the same . the shadow Attorney General have raise the matter with the Attorney General , and a letter will be send in due course . I must press the Minister on the question of F - 35 arm sale . he mention direct and indirect arm sale , and he say that the indirect arm sale be either irrelevant or impossible to remedy . as I understand it , there be no reason why F - 35 part that be make in the UK , sell to the United States and use by Israel can not be subject to a conditional licence under which they be sell to the United States with the proviso that they can not be use in Gaza . give that , how can it be legally or morally justifiable to continue allow UK part for fighter jet that be be use to kill palestinian child to be export even indirectly to an israeli leader who face an arrest warrant for war crime and crime against humanity ? we hear about the review , but while that review have be ongoing under the last government and this one , thousand and thousand of palestinian civilian have be kill . for clarity , we have suspend arm licence where part for the F - 35 programme be sell directly to Israel . where they be sell to the global spare pool , it be not possible to disentangle where they go in that pool and see their final destination . that be why we have make the exemption , and it be why we judge that do so be vital for the security of the UK , for our ally and for NATO . do the Minister agree that the cold - blooded slaughter of ten of thousand of innocent people in Gaza can not be justify as self - defence ? do he also agree that — contrary to the trumpian line adopt by those on the conservative Benches — just because a country be a democracy , that do not provide it with blanket immunity from international law ? the hon . member refer to the terrible loss of life in Gaza , which be in the mind and heart of the whole House . we be a democracy , as much as signatory to petition may wish otherwise . we abide by international law and we expect our ally to do the same , and we make that point with force . let we remind this House why we be here . Benjamin Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant stand accuse of very serious crime : the crime against humanity of murder , and the crime against humanity of persecution and starvation as a weapon of war . seventy per cent of those kill in this war be innocent woman and child . nobody in this House can think of a war in live memory in which 70 % of those kill be woman and child . I want to ask the Minister a very specific question , because he have evade all of this so far . can he tell we one concrete step that he will take — apart from execute the arrest warrant , as the UK be oblige to do as a state party to the Rome statute — that we can all tangibly grasp ? we would like to hear it , please . I have be clear about what the Government have do and will continue to do . if the hon . member would like a recap , on the very first morning that I become a Minister , we announce the restoration of funding to UNRWA . we have provide significant aid to the people of Gaza . we have provide aid that have not get into Gaza , and we have raise that with the Israelis . my ministerial colleague and I have travel to the region to press these issue , both alone and in company with the french Foreign Minister . this House be unite in its concern about what will happen in Gaza in December . there be no disagreement that insufficient aid have go in . there be urgent , almost frantic effort every day in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to try to ensure that adequate aid reach the Palestinians . I understand the frustration of this House . we be work as hard as we can and we will continue to do so . we take concrete action each and every day on this issue . the ICC find that there be no justification under international humanitarian law for the restriction of aid by the israeli Government . indeed , the ICC detail how doctor have be force to carry out treatment and amputation without anaesthetic , include on child . the Government ' s response must include redouble our effort to get more aid into Gaza . can my hon . friend confirm what pressure be be put on the israeli Government , in addition to what we have already do , to get more aid into Gaza ? in addition to the step I have just outline , we will be work closely with our partner and I hope to be able to update the House shortly on some of the measure we be take , in company , to try to ensure that sufficient aid get into Gaza , particularly over this vital winter period . the ICC arrest warrant be welcome , but in themselves they will not bring an end to israeli war crime and ethnic cleansing and the killing of innocent man , woman and child . it be an international legal obligation on the UK Government to prevent ethnic cleansing and genocide . will the Minister explain what specific measure the Government have take and be take to stop Israel ' s ethnic cleansing in northern Gaza and what concrete step the UK Government have take to comply with the genocide convention ? the hon . Member ask about northern Gaza and some of the specific measure that have be take . as I say in answer to a previous question , we have be pay close attention to event in northern Gaza . by way of example , we watch closely — with horror — the event at Kamal Adwan hospital . I raise they myself repeatedly with the israeli authority and urge they to preserve life at that hospital , include among the child . we take every opportunity to underline to the Israelis their responsibility as an occupy power in the whole of Gaza , but particularly in northern Gaza , and indeed the obligation that fall to they in relation to medical facility , particularly where there be ongoing treatment of child , as there be in that case . I recognise the hon . member ' s frustration at the situation in northern Gaza . we be clear that northern Gaza must not be cut off from the south . there must be no forcible transfer of Gazans from or within Gaza , nor any reduction in the territory of the Gaza strip . the Government of Israel must minimise evacuation notice to only area where they be militarily necessary , provide timely and consistent information on when and where they take effect , and be clear on where it be safe for civilian to move to . the polio vaccination roll - out have now end , but an estimate 6 , 800 to 13 , 700 child in northern Gaza be not reach due to intense Israel Defence Forces activity . that be deplorable . delay vaccination of any child in Gaza put they at risk and be unacceptable , and we make those point to the Israelis . I recognise the hon . member ' s frustration , but we be do what we can to try to ensure that child and other in northern Gaza have access to the aid they need . many of my constituent have write to I to express their horror at what be happen in Gaza . do the Minister agree that the United Nations Relief and Works Agency play an indispensable role in the provision of humanitarian assistance , and do he oppose the Bills recently pass in the Knesset that would prevent UNRWA ' s operation ? I thank my hon . friend for pass on the concern of his constituent ; I know that that be feel right across the country and that many other member would wish to put on record the concern of their constituent too . I do condemn the Knesset Bill in relation to UNRWA . we have make the point clear that UNRWA be indispensable . only UNRWA can provide the aid into the occupy Palestinian Territories at the scale require , and we will continue to press for UNRWA ' s continued operation in accordance with the relevant Security Council resolution . it be crucial that the Labour Government comply with our obligation under international law to uphold the ICC ' s rule and enforce the arrest warrant against israeli Ministers . that compliance be vital , give the previous Conservative Government ' s besmirching of the International Criminal Court and , in turn , damage of the UK ' s stand on the world stage . many of my constituent in Wokingham would like to see the UK stand up for what be right and see that the UK do not turn its back on international law . will the Minister confirm that the Government will not undermine the ICC ' s rule by unequivocally agree to uphold the arrest warrant ? I reassure the hon . member and ask he to pass on to his constituent that this Government will indeed do the right thing and stand up for international law . I have set out the manner in which we would do that over the course of this afternoon . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to uphold their obligation under international law and therefore to issue arrest warrant to these man if they set foot on british soil . if the Government acknowledge that the Prime Minister of Israel should be on trial for war crime and crime against humanity , how — morally and legally — can we continue to supply he with the weapon be use by Israel in its horrific assault on innocent civilian in Gaza ? I have outline our position in relation to both our international and domestic obligation to the ICC and our position on arm sale . I reassure my hon . friend that we will consider the finding of the ICC in the ongoing review process in relation to arm sale . I be truly perplexed , as most of the british population watch this debate no doubt will be , by some of the argument be advanced . when it come to the ICC , topic such as morality and equivalence do not feature ; this be a principle of law . an independent body , encapsulate some of the most senior member of the judiciary , have make a finding , yet we have the issue of democracy and morality be use to argue for some sort of impunity for leader . will the Minister state that if Benjamin Netanyahu arrive on these shore , if the ICC have issue warrant , we would at least detain he , subject to our domestic procedure ? the hon . Member make an impassioned and welcome commitment to due process and the independence of the law , and I will not demur from that by provide commentary on what domestic court might do in a hypothetical situation . I be frankly astonish at the principle underlie some of the comment make by the shadow Foreign Secretary and some of her conservative colleague today . I have be give assembly to primary school child across the Earley and Woodley constituency emphasise that british democracy mean that nobody be above the rule of law . I hope that one day , Conservative Members might understand what the child of the Earley and Woodley constituency instinctively understand , which be that we should be equal under the law , whether we be the political leader of a democracy or otherwise . that be why I welcome the Minister ' s statement that the Government will comply with their international obligation . the Minister have set out the work he have be do in travel to the region and witness at first hand the blockage of aid into Gaza by the israeli Government . the United Nations state that over 83 % of food aid have be block , which of course lead to the risk and ongoing fact of starvation in the region . what can the Minister and the Government do in line with our positive obligation under international law to prevent future atrocity occur in Gaza ? the Government be deeply concerned by the late Integrated Food Security Phase Classification find about food insecurity in Gaza . we be make effort to try to ensure a more rapid and regular flow of aid , include item that have be bar , which often seem to be those that be most vital for winterisation — as the international humanitarian community call it — in Gaza . we will continue to press for more flexibility on these point , so that the necessary tent , sleep bag and other equipment require to safeguard palestinian life over the course of the winter can move in at the scale that be require . have see and live through the misuse of lawfare in Northern Ireland , whereby the terrorist use law to target those who seek to live by the law while ignore the fact that every one of their action be illegal , I very firmly oppose the UK ' s stamp of approval on any ICC decision on Israel . it be only when you — not " you " mean the Minister , but " you " mean I — have be the victim of whitewash propaganda , as unionist have in Northern Ireland , that you truly understand the danger . will the Minister not recall that Israel have be defend itself under perpetual attack , and that this ICC ruling be simply affirm the Hamas agenda of hide terrorism behind woman and child , sacrifice they to achieve their goal ? that goal be clear : to wipe Israel off the map . that be something that we can never support , and I hope the Minister will never support it either . I do not support the action of Hamas — I condemn they outright and utterly . the action of Hamas , include the continued keeping of hostage , represent unspeakable cruelty , both to the israeli people and to british national . we do not forget Emily Damari , who be still hold more than a year since she be take . that be say , we can both condemn terrorist organisation such as Hamas and lebanese Hezbollah and encourage our ally to keep to the very high standard , and our commitment to international law be part of that contribution . I have just return from the west bank , where I meet Roland Friedrich , director of UNRWA affair , and see UNRWA ' s work at first hand . in the west bank alone , that work include run 97 school and 43 health centre and provide public service such as clean drinking water and rubbish collection . do the Minister agree that there be no viable alternative to UNRWA , and will he do everything in his power to ensure Israel allow its vital operation to continue ? I do agree . there be no alternative to UNRWA , and we will raise those point , both directly with Israel and in company . it be vital that UNRWA , underpin by a succession of UN Security Council resolution , be able to continue its vital work , both in the west bank and Gaza and across the wide region . can the Minister reassure we that he and other Ministers have directly press Israel on compliance with international humanitarian law in their meeting with their counterpart ? I can . I do this morning , and I will continue to do so . Emily be a british citizen who , as the Minister have say , have be hold hostage ever since the attack . would the Minister explain what measure the Government be take to make contact with those hold the hostage so that we can bring Emily home ? hostage case be some of the most horrifying situation that a family can face . I know that many people in this House have meet with Emily ' s family , and have see at first hand their bravery , but also the agony that they feel a year on . I regret deeply that the good chance of release for all of the hostage be through negotiate agreement , and I call on all party to come back to the table to try to advance the agreement necessary to secure a release of hostage , an immediate ceasefire , and a reduction in the awful violence that scar we all . storm Bert with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on Storm Bert . the storm bring heavy rain , high wind and snow across the UK over the weekend . the flooding Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) — and I be receive regular update on the flooding in England . our thought and our sympathy be with all those who have be affect . this morning , I hold an emergency meeting with Environment Agency chief executive Philip Duffy to discuss the flooding response and ongoing plan to protect community . I be brief on the late situation , the 24 / 7 response be lead by the Environment Agency and the emergency service , and the action be take to far protect community in the come day , with river level expect to rise far in some place . we discuss how to bolster the response from the Environment Agency , emergency service and local authority , if require . flooding in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland be deal with by the devolved authority . the Prime Minister speak to the First Minister for Wales on Sunday , and the Welsh Government have activate their crisis management arrangement in support of the local response . we have offer additional support to our colleague in Wales if and when that be require . I would like to put on record my thank to the emergency responder , local authority and the Environment Agency for their immense effort to help community across the country . around 28 , 000 property have be protect by Environment Agency flood defence . unfortunately , an estimate 107 property have flood across England , principally from river and surface water flooding . while Storm Bert have now pass , we will continue to see the impact of this weekend ' s heavy rainfall over the next few day . environment Agency staff be continue their work across the country , and be engage closely with local resilience forum and local responder , with arrangement in place to scale up their response if and when that be need . as of 4 pm today , there be one severe flood warning in place , with 120 flood warning and 145 flood alert in force across England . a severe flood warning , which reflect a danger to life , be issue in the early hour of this morning . it relate to the Billing Aquadrome on the River Nene in Northamptonshire , where the caravan park be safely evacuate . this be the fourth time the aquadrome have be flood in recent year , and I would like to thank local responder for their swift action to protect those most at risk . the Environment Agency and local responder have also be busy protect property elsewhere in England , include flooding from the River Teme in Tenbury Wells , where around 40 property have flood . the river have now peak , and local responder will be focus on the low reach of river over the next few day . there have be a focus on the Calder valley in west Yorkshire , the River Weaver in Cheshire and the River Avon in Bath , include Chippenham and Bradford - on - Avon . further flooding be , sadly , likely over the next few day , as water level rise in slow - flow river such as the Severn and the Ouse . the Environment Agency anticipate that any impact should be less severe than we have see in recent day . storm Bert also cause disruption to road and rail network . our transport industry have well - establish plan to respond to severe weather and get affected transport network run smoothly as quickly as possible . National Highways , local highway team and Network Rail staff have be work all weekend to reduce floodwater and remove fallen tree from road and railway . unfortunately , residual floodwater be affect the great western main line , the midland main line and other branch line , and this continue to affect passenger ' journey . the safety of passenger , train crew and staff be always the top priority , and railway line will be reopen as soon as it be safe for train to run . climate change will inevitably lead to more severe weather of the kind we have see this weekend . as Environment Secretary , I have make it my priority to improve our flood defence and drainage system to keep people and business safe . this Government inherit flood defence in the bad condition on record follow year of under - investment by the previous Government . over 3 , 000 of our key flood defence be below an acceptable standard . that be why we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year to build and maintain flood defence . we have also set up a new flood resilience taskforce to make sure there be well co - ordination between central Government and the frontline agency on the ground up and down the country . this bring together organisation include the Association of Drainage Authorities , the National Farmers Union , local resilience forum , and emergency responder . it be key to strengthen resilience in the face of flood , and it meet for the first time in September to prepare for the autumn and winter . we have provide £ 60 million in the recent Budget to help farmer affect by the unprecedented flooding early this year , and I be pleased to tell the House that the bulk of the payment be already in farmer ’ bank account . we have confirm that an additional £ 50 million will be distribute to internal drainage board to manage water level to protect agriculture and the environment , and we will launch a consultation in the new year which will include a review of the exist flood funding formula to ensure challenge face business and rural and coastal community be take into account when deliver flood protection . we aim to bring in that new approach from April 2026 . I repeat my thank to the emergency service , local authority and the Environment Agency for their work to keep community safe during Storm Bert . I will continue to receive update from the Environment Agency and its team on the ground , and I will continue to ensure that member across the House be contact when flooding affect their constituency . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . storm Bert have have , and continue to have , terrible impact across the United Kingdom . our thought be with the love one of those who have lose their life in recent day as well as the people whose home and business have be devastate and all the community affect by flooding and this weather . I understand the distress , the anger and , frankly , the exhaustion many will be feel today as they contemplate the process of rebuild their home , business and community because my own constituency suffer terrible damage from Storm Babet a year ago . resident need practical support quickly , and they also need some reassurance for the future . I thank the emergency service , the local authority and the Environment Agency for their effort to help people quickly and often in dangerous circumstance , but I also thank the member of the public who have step in to help their neighbour and local community in countless way . they be the ray of kindness in what have be a dark weekend for many community . the Government need to focus on how help will be give to those who have be drive out of their home , include the provision of decent temporary accommodation and the repair and reopening of school , as well as the process for speed up insurance claim so that resident can return home as quickly as possible . know , as we do , sadly , from previous storm , how important member across this House will be in help their constituent , will the Secretary of State commit to ensure that his Department send a daily operational update to member across the House so that member may help their constituent assiduously ? last week the Secretary of State ' s Department will have receive datum from the Met Office about the severity of this storm and its likely impact . so that we can understand the urgency that the Secretary of State give to these warning , will he please tell we about the discussion he have with the Environment Agency and the Met Office before the storm hit and when they be hold , and what action be implement as a result of any such meeting ? the Secretary of State mention his government ' s flood resilience taskforce , which be set up to improve flood preparedness . it have meet once since July , and its next meeting be next year . he have just say that its duty be to prepare for the autumn and winter . can he list precisely the preparation arise out of that meeting and the practical impact on community up and down the country ? regrettably , with the threat of flooding still present — indeed , as I rise to my foot , one severe flood warning and 120 flood warning be still in place — the Secretary of State descend into play politic . to correct he , I will just set out these fact , and there be a question for he to answer at the end . the last Conservative Government commit a record £ 5 . 2 billion from 2021 until 2027 to provide significantly improve flooding defence across the country . that be critical and long - stand infrastructure work . will he confirm whether the £ 2 . 4 billion he have reference be part of that £ 5 . 2 billion or in addition to it ? the Conservatives ringfence £ 100 million to help those community threaten repeatedly by flood . it be call the frequently flood allowance . will the Government confirm the continuance of this fund and its ringfencing ? when be the next assessment for that scheme ? can community flood through Storm Bert be include ? we also set up the natural flood management fund to complement traditional brick and mortar defence . can the Secretary of State confirm that that will be continue ? I note that the Secretary of State have mention fund independent drainage board to the tune of £ 50 million . can he confirm that the funding have be cut from the £ 75 million promise by the Conservatives , and why ? while I welcome the increase of £ 10 million in the Budget for the farming recovery fund , which be announce by the Conservative Government to support farmer for last year ' s wet weather , can the Secretary of State confirm that he will announce new money to support farmer for this winter ' s bad weather ? can he give comfort to the farmer watch that the Treasury will include adverse weather condition and flooding as mitigation for its much criticise family farm tax ? I end by wish every community , whether they be the subject of those flood warning or watch their weather update with great concern , a safe and comfortable few day ahead . I thank the right hon . Lady for her comment , and I echo her good wish to people who have be affect by the situation . she refer to funding . I politely remind she that she be a Treasury Minister in the previous Government , who underfunde our flood defence and leave more than 3 , 000 of they — the high level on record — in an inadequate state . she ask about appropriate support on the frontline . the flood resilience taskforce exist to ensure that those on the frontline across the country — local authority and the agency responsible — be ready for this and other storm when they happen , and that appropriate support be in place for individual , family and community that may be affect . that of course include those who be most vulnerable . the Minister for Water and Flooding , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) have already hold a roundtable with insurance provider to ensure that we be speed up support for those who be affect by flood . the Environment Agency will keep member regularly update on the circumstance in their own constituency . turn back to funding , we have allocate £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year , which be more per annum in each of those two year than the previous Government allocate for the current year . I call the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . I entirely empathise with my right hon . friend about what he have inherit . we have have the perfect storm of massive funding cut to the Environment Agency with increase pressure from flooding as a result of climate change . notwithstanding that , the need for improvement in our flood defence be urgent and critical . how can community such as mine in Chesterfield , flood by the Rother and Hipper river , engage with the work he be do so that we can be more prepared , work with the Environment Agency to bridge the funding gap for the exist scheme on the River Hipper ? my heart go out to all the community across the country that have be so appallingly flood . they need to know how we can work with the Government to step up the urgency so that our country be more flood - prepare in future . I thank the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee for his question and of course sympathise with resident in his constituency who have be affect by the recent flooding , and indeed previous flooding . the Government be review the flood funding formula to see how we can make it more effective . that include nature - base flood management , such as plant more tree far upstream to help the land hold more water , so that less rainwater flood downstream to more populated area where it can cause more damage . that consultation will involve business , rural community , coastal community and community such as his all feeding in to ensure that we have a flood funding formula that work for every part of the country . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of the statement . the financial cost of the devastation cause by Storm Bert will run into many million , yet that be nothing compare with the heartbreaking loss of life . my prayer be for the love one of those who have die and for the community so horrifically affected . I , too , be grateful to the emergency service of all kind , council worker , the Environment Agency and the community who have pull together and be wonderful neighbour up and down the country . indeed , I be grateful to the many member who have get their hand dirty serve their constituency . that include my hon . friend the Member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) who , in the absence of any train , hire a car this morning and leave Parliament to get back to her community to be with those who have be devastate by the flooding . this storm highlight the foolishness of the Government ' s real - term reduction of 1 . 9 % to the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs ' budget . that be a potential threat to flood - affect community through its impact on flood management scheme , natural flood management and specific project such as those in Kendal and Appleby . will the Secretary of State clarify whether he may seek to reverse those cut ? disruption to rail service have be significant , too . Less than a year after the terrifying derailment at Grange - over - Sands , the whole of the furness line in my constituency be out of action until later this week . will Ministers put extra resource into ensure that that vital line and other be upgrade and make more robust ? storm event also have an impact on our sewerage network . research by the Save Windermere campaign estimate that storm overflow discharge untreated sewage into our lake begin at 3 . 21 this morning and by midday could have reach a volume of 7 million litre . will the Government speed up action to prevent egregious storm overflow like that across our country ? finally , do the Secretary of State understand that give the crucial role that farmer play in natural flood management , his decision to cut 76 % of the basic payment scheme from next year could push farmer away from such scheme altogether ? will he revisit that decision ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his comment and question . I share and echo his gratitude to member across the House for the work they have carry out to support their local constituent and signpost they to appropriate support . we will be ensure that the Environment Agency continue to engage with member on that important work . the hon . Gentleman will be aware of the very difficult financial inheritance that we have from the previous Government . in that context , I think the fact that we have be able to deliver an increase in funding for flooding be to be welcome : £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year mean an increase in both year compare with the amount of funding provide by the previous Government for the current year . the hon . Gentleman mention storm overflow . when we have these more severe episode of rain , it be extremely distressing to see more storm overflow discharge sewage into river , lake and sea . Sir Jon Cunliffe be lead a wide review into the failure of governance and regulation that have lead to this situation , and I be sure that the hon . Gentleman and Liberal Democrat Members will engage with that . in addition , we be require every single outflow to be monitor so that we know what be go into our river and can take appropriate action , include through the strengthened power under the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill . storm Bert have be devastating for my constituent . in Cwmtillery , with its disuse coal tip , 160 mm of rain fall in just 48 hour . across Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , home have be wash out , child ' s Christmas present have be ruin and family without insurance be count the cost . I hugely welcome the £ 25 million in the Budget for Welsh coalfield tip maintenance and safety measure ; that make a big difference . give , though , the extraordinary weather that we see on the weekend , will the Secretary of State please look again to see if further support will be available for coal tip in the future ? I recognise the absolute devastation that my hon . friend describe , which homeowner and business owner will have feel in see their home devastate by flooding . the Prime Minister contact and speak to the First Minister of Wales on Sunday . he make available any support that the Welsh Government may need to deal with the situation . that offer stand open , and we be ready to support colleague in Wales if and when they require that , recognise that part of Wales have be the hard hit by Storm Bert . Plaid Cymru ' s thought be with all those across Wales affect by Storm Bert . confirmation of a coal tip landslip in Cwmtillery be extremely concern and will lead to anxiety for other live near coal tip . those tip be the legacy of an industry that extract from Wales to enrich London , yet the UK Government have pledge just 4 % of the £ 600 million need to secure they . will the Secretary of State commit to provide the full funding require ? again , I share the hon . member ' s concern about the situation . this be the first Government ever to have offer funding to support the problem of coal tip that she describe . as I say in response to the previous question , the Prime Minister have make it clear to the First Minister of Wales that the Government stand ready to provide more support to the Welsh Government if that be require . this weekend , much of my constituency be under a severe flood warning . business , road and home be flood . we be lucky than in previous year in term of severity , but in place it be agonisingly close , with river centimetre away from break their bank . Calder Valley have have two major flood in the past decade , and the fact that we avoid the same level of destruction this time be in no small part because of the work of local flood warden , natural flood management organisation such as Slow the Flow and Calderdale council . I pay tribute to they . it be almost a decade since the serious flood in Calder Valley on Boxing day 2015 . we have further flood in 2020 . while the Environment Agency have carry out flood prevention work in Mytholmroyd and Brighouse , it have not even make a start on plan scheme in Hebden Bridge and Elland . will the Minister meet I to discuss the plan we have upcoming and get some action from the Environment Agency ? my constituent be understandably really anxious . I thank my hon . friend very much for his question . I be sure that his constituent will be pleased to hear of the increase in funding over the next two year to support area that be affect by flood as well as the review to the flood funding formula that we be consult on to ensure that we be take the most appropriate and effective step necessary to protect community and business from flood . I be sure that my hon . friend the Minister for Water and Flooding will be more than happy to meet he to discuss his constituency concern . it be not the silver bullet , but give the severity of the situation over the weekend , every little help . will the Secretary of State — he will earn huge plaudit if he be able to pull this off — convince the Environment Agency that it would be helpful to many community in North Dorset , the south - west and elsewhere to increase the capacity of our river through a manage programme of dredging ? we be lose capacity . last week I see a river where two arch of a bridge be entirely silt up . that be lose 20 % of capacity . it be not the silver bullet , but capacity improvement would help . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . I know his constituency well and I know what a champion he be for community there . I be sure that he will welcome the fact that we be review the formula with the Environment Agency , to look at precisely what action would be most effective to protect community in whichever part of the country they find themselves in , include his very beautiful part of Dorset . last July , the previous Government issue its third national adaptation plan , and this March the Climate Change Committee issue its independent assessment of NAP3 . it say that it fall far short of what be need , that it lack the pace and ambition to address grow climate risk — which we be already experience — and that it fail to set out a compelling vision for what the Government ' s well - adapt UK entail , with only around 40 % of the short - term action to address urgent risk identify in the previous climate change risk assessment . will the Secretary of State ensure that the key recommendation of the Climate Change Committee in its assessment of NAP3 be implement and that an urgent refresh of NAP3 take place , to strengthen it and avoid lock in additional climate impact ? key reform must be implement over the next year , along with enforcement . those be the recommendation of the Climate Change Committee . can he assure the House that he be take those seriously and move they forward ? my hon . friend be right to point to the impact of climate change through the much more frequent severe weather incident that we be see , whether drought in the summer or flood at this time of year and through the winter . that be why we be review the formula and our approach to manage flooding . we take the report and view of the committee very seriously as we continue to look at how good to adapt to the challenge that climate change present to the whole country . People live in former mining community across south Wales deserve great reassurance on what the Government will do about coal tip . can the Secretary of State explain what exactly they will do to make these tip safe , particularly when it come to the live monitoring of any movement and early warning system ? there be a programme to improve the maintenance of coal tip , which be underway through the Welsh Government . as I say , this be the first Government to allocate funding to tackle that risk and its very serious implication for people and community live in affected area . I be grateful to the Environment Agency for protect much of my constituency . however , business still continue to flood . could the Secretary of State say what he be do to review the remit of Flood Re , so that business , leaseholder and property build after 2009 can be cover by the Flood re scheme , which really do help people through time of flooding ? as I have indicate , the Minister for water , my hon . friend the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , have already chair a roundtable with insurance provider , include Flood Re , to look at what more can be do to provide support . as thing stand , 99 % of the most high - risk household can get quote from over 15 insurance provider , and four out of five homeowner with claim have see a 50 % reduction in their insurance premium . we be look at what more can be do for business through the British Insurance Brokers ' Association . I associate myself with the word of gratitude pay by the Secretary of State to all those who have help over the weekend . the House will know that I have raise the situation of Tenbury Wells many time . it be devastating to hear that it be flood again this weekend . I do not know whether the Secretary of State , in his meeting with Philip Duffy this morning , be tell that there be a really well advanced design for flood defence for Tenbury Wells , which have be substantially fund thank to previous funding allocation . I wonder if he could find it in his heart — and in his £ 2 . 4 billion over the next two year — to get that scheme over the line . I know the hon . Lady ' s constituent will be very grateful for her championing of their cause , particularly give the flooding that we have see over the weekend . the funding allocation will be make in the usual way by the Environment Agency , work through its regional flood and coastal committee and engage with local stakeholder . I be sure that she will make sure her voice and that of her constituent be hear , as she make a powerful case for fund those flood defence . the Secretary of State will know that my constituency have some of the mighty and most beautiful river , include the Wye , the Usk and the Monnow . but have those incredible river mean that we be really at risk of flooding . yesterday we have two severe flood warning . they have be downgrade today , but there be still five flood warning , some of which be on the River Wye , which , as my right hon . friend know , run through England and Wales . I want to express my gratitude to Monmouthshire county council , South Wales Fire and Rescue and all those in the community who help , particularly Darren in Skenfrith , who have be up for 36 hour help the community . that community have be flood four time in the last three year . can the Secretary of State please assure I that he will encourage Natural Resources Wales and the Environment Agency to work together to solve those flooding problem on cross - border river ? my hon . friend make a very important point . we need to ensure that the agency with responsibility for the same river or catchment area and that operate cross - border work as effectively as they can . I will make sure that those point be convey to both agency . I thank the Secretary of State for an advance copy of his statement . the thought of my Scottish National party colleague and I be with the family of those who have lose their life during Storm Bert . I also associate myself with his remark on the response of the emergency service . many unnamed storm occur in Scotland , and in my constituency in particular . for example , a part of the seawall in Gardenstown come down recently . I be sure that storm Bert have make that bad . I note the Secretary of State ' s comment regard additional support that could be give , and will he confirm that , with the come storm that we expect in Scotland , he will be able to make the same commitment for Scotland as well ? of course , the Government will stand ready to support and help the devolved authority whenever they face circumstance like these . my thought be with all those affect over the weekend . I also thank everyone who have be protect the public at this very difficult time . the level on the River Kennet , which be a tributary of the Thames — and indeed the Thames itself — have be rise to dangerous level in recent hour . could the Secretary of State provide an update on specific matter in the Thames valley region , in particular the flood defence scheme in the read area and the vital work that he be prepare to do upstream to plant more tree and to rewild to avoid flooding ? I be sure that my hon . friend will welcome our proposal to review the formula so that we can look at nature - base flood management in the way that he describe . I will ask the Environment Agency to contact he with an update on what be go on in his constituency , and what further action be be take as the river continue to rise to ensure that his constituent be keep safe . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . I also acknowledge the enormous work do by Philip Duffy in the Environment Agency . he come down to visit my constituent in Britford in the first quarter of this year and make an enormous impact . in addition to the £ 30 million , for which the people of Salisbury be very grateful , for the Salisbury river park scheme that have just complete , it be important that small scheme , drive by parish such as Britford parish council , be give licence to combine both their own precept and investment from the Environment Agency to come up with bespoke scheme . will the Secretary of State ensure that attention be give by the EA to how it can give as much flexibility as possible , so that small scheme can also move forward at parish level ? I echo the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment about Philip Duffy at the Environment Agency and all his colleague , who be do an incredible job — they always do , every time storm hit . the right hon . Gentleman make a very important and interesting point about how we can well tie up different approach to funding . I will take that back and discuss it with the EA . I will ensure that he receive a full write response . my constituency be home to a wonderful retirement community at Hartrigg Oaks . however , resident live there have tell I that they worry , every single time there be a storm , about how the River Foss may overflow on to their property . there be a fix : a water pump to alleviate flooding , but that be remove , shamefully , by Yorkshire Water three year ago . do my right hon . friend agree with I that Yorkshire Water should fix that urgently , follow storm Bert ? it be important that we look at all possible way we can protect community from flooding . I do not know the detail of the particular instance my hon . friend be speak about , but I be happy to look at it . my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , the Minister with responsibility for water , and I will be happy to meet he to discuss what we can do to support he in what he be call for . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . will the Secretary of State join I in thank firefighter from Devon and Somerset Fire and Rescue Service , who have attend over 420 water incident during Storm Bert , include many across my constituency in North Devon ? do he agree that community resilience for severe weather incident should be a statutory duty in England , with accompany Government funding , as it be in the devolved nation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment and I share his gratitude to those in the Devon and Somerset emergency service who be keep people safe at this very difficult time . we will look , with colleague in the Home Office , at whether further duty be require to ensure that community be safe when circumstance like this happen . may I take this opportunity to put on record my thank to all the agency that work so hard over the weekend in flood - affect area in my constituency in really difficult circumstance , and to express my deep condolence to the family and friend of Mr Brian Perry ? as well as the police and fire and rescue service , many of the team involve in search of this nature be staff by volunteer , such as Ogwen Valley mountain rescue organisation , and we owe they all a huge debt of thank . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for the additional support that have be offer to the Welsh Government and colleague in Wales in response to the devastation cause by Storm Bert . what further contact will there be with the Welsh Government in the come day ? I echo the condolence for the loss of life and state my gratitude to those volunteer who have be engage in support community at this very difficult time . we will of course stay in regular contact with the Government and other authority in Wales , to make sure that if they require further assistance it be make available to they as quickly as it can be provide . storm Bert affect many part of my constituency in the Scottish Borders , and I pay tribute to the volunteer and emergency service who keep local resident safe . many farmer have be particularly badly affect . have the Government make an assessment on crop yield , not just in Scotland but across the UK , as a direct result of storm Bert ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . appropriate assessment will be make once we have have time to consider exactly what have go on , but I be sure that , like I , he will welcome the allocation of £ 60 million through the farm recovery fund to support farm that be devastate by flood early in the year . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my thought be with all those affect by Storm Bert . as chair of the Fire Brigades Union parliamentary group , I express my solidarity and thank to all our emergency service , include firefighter on the frontline . extreme weather event be on the rise and be become ever more frequent as a result of climate change , highlight the urgent need for proper funding and resource . England be the only part of the UK without a statutory duty for flooding , leave fire service underfunde and under - resource to respond effectively . that must change . as the FBU have long call for , when will the Government finally provide a statutory duty for fire and rescue authority to respond to flood incident in England ? furthermore , in our election manifesto the Government commit to develop a national structure to inform policy and standard in the fire and rescue service . when will that be implement ? finally , will the FBU be invite to the flood resilience taskforce to ensure that the voice of firefighter be hear in shape flood resilience strategy ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . fire and rescue authority have the power to intervene , but she be quite right to point out that there be not a duty . official in my Department , work with the Home Office , will review that to consider whether it remain appropriate . my hon . friend the Minister for water , who now chair the flood resilience taskforce , be happy to issue an invitation to the FBU to participate in that . resident across Somerset be once again feel incredibly anxious . part of Glastonbury and Somerton see 130 mm of rain during Storm Bert over the weekend , which have place additional strain on our age flood defence network . do the Secretary of State agree that , because of the increase frequency and severity of extreme weather , we need to incentivise our farmer and landowner to urgently establish more nature - base flood solution on their land and fund more extreme weather resilience plan for isolated rural community ? I share the hon . Lady ' s concern about the circumstance in Somerset . I agree with the point that she be make . we have increase the action available through environmental land management scheme , include more action around natural flood management of precisely the kind she describe . I look forward to see much more of that over the month and year to come . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and for remind the House about the first - time funding for coal tip . I notice that Plaid Cymru mention coal tip but could not leave the Chamber quickly enough or wait for the end of the statement . I pay tribute to the local authority , emergency service , volunteer and all those affect by Storm Bert in Cardiff , in Rhondda Cynon Taf and across south Wales . may I ask my right hon . friend to speak to colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology about look carefully into the role of the Met Office ? it be clear that its response be slow and that there be an underestimation of the impact of storm Bert : it put out a yellow rather than an amber or red warning . our constituent have be let down by this incompetence before . it can not keep happen . my hon . friend should be reassure , and so should the whole House , that in most affected part of the country , warning be give with adequate time for people to prepare . I encourage people to sign up on the website of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs or of the Environment Agency for warning and alert if they live in an area that could be affect by flood . I be aware of the particular concern that my hon . friend mention about the Met Office ; I will indeed be speak to colleague in DSIT as they review the circumstance and look at how the situation can be improve for future such event . I draw the Secretary of State ' s attention to what happen after the acute phase of flooding , particularly in rural area like mine . I have small area and village that be affect and then struggle to get thing sort out . for example , Witherley in my constituency be small enough to be affect heavily by flooding that go up through its road , but it then struggle to have the capacity to get all the agency to sort it out because of the funding . when he look at the funding model , will he consider the issue of size ? also , try to pull agency together in one place have take I more than a year . we be meet on 13 December to plan , but it have take 10 year of work to get they all together . will the Secretary of State look at a way of ensure that the process be clear , so that it be spell out to all the agency , include fire agency and water company , what they be accountable for ? everyone , and most importantly the public who be affect , need to know who be accountable for what . I commend the hon . gentleman for his work in try to bring the agency together in his locality , which be precisely what we be try to do at a national level with the flood resilience taskforce . in fact , it would be helpful for the taskforce to look into how co - ordination be happen on the ground in locality such as his , especially give how long he have be push for this to happen in a more effective way — so far , sadly , without success . I would very much like to see the national taskforce support he in that work so that he can deliver for his local resident . in place like Ironbridge Gorge in my constituency , it be day later when the water come down the river and have an impact on business and residence . each and every time the temporary flood barrier be erect , a hammer blow be deal to the economy in this world heritage site . will the Secretary of State instruct the Environment Agency to come up with a plan and resource for frequently flood area , give that year on year the flooding become bad in place like Ironbridge Gorge ? I invite he to visit the gorge to see it for himself . I thank my hon . friend for his invitation to visit the gorge ; I would very much like to take he up on it when time allow . I be sure he will welcome the review of the flood funding formula , which will allow we to take different approach to manage flooding in way that will be much more effective . he should be aware that the Environment Agency will be conduct its funding allocation in the usual way through its relevant committee , and he should feed his view into that process . this weekend , resident in my constituency be flood yet again . the same thing happen only five week ago , and after that event I meet people at my surgery who show I footage of floodwater spew out of their toilet into the downstairs area , and of their sodden house . I meet more than 100 resident in the village of Eardisland who express concern that I know be widespread in the county and the constituency . on that occasion in October more than 100 household in Herefordshire be flood , yet the flood recovery framework be not initiate because Ministers feel that the flooding be not widespread or severe enough . will the Secretary of State please consider the term under which the flood recovery framework be initiate ? it provide vital support that council can pass on to help that recovery : immediate grant for community and business , with council tax and business rate relief . will he think about how that be trigger and consider give the responsibility to local authority , which be far the well - place agency to judge when it be require ? in addition to everything we need for flood resilience , that immediate support be crucial at time like this . may I extend my sympathy to the hon . Lady ' s constituent follow the distressing experience that they have undergo during this and , I be sure , previous flooding episode ? she be quite right to ask how we can improve the flooding formula and get agency work well on the frontline . it be possible to do so through the consultation that we have launch on the formula , and I hope that she will contribute to that . I be sure we can get to a position where the formula work much well for her constituent in North Herefordshire and for those in every other part of the country . I have be contact by resident of Draycott , Marchington and Rolleston and other in my constituency who have be affect by the flooding this weekend . this be a persistent problem that affect these area every time we experience heavy rainfall . what work be the Department undertaking with county council and other agency to ensure that river be properly maintain and drain be regularly clear to prevent this recur devastation ? I empathise with the suffering that my hon . friend ' s constituent have experience because of the recent flooding . we be review the formula ; we realise that it be not work as effectively as it should . along with the flood resilience taskforce , we will be look into how we can well improve co - ordination on the ground among the different agency that have responsibility first for keep people safe and then for help community to recover after flooding of the kind that my hon . friend describe . resident of south Abingdon have already be flood twice this year , and tonight there be another warning . I can not imagine what they must be feel . when I visit they in September , they report feel very alone . they have be promise a flood defence , and then the Environment Agency say that it be not value for money ; they have be promise sandbank , which then do not show up . when we ask the EA today whether it would be on the ground , it tell we that it could not send enough people — not because it do not have the staff or the money , but because not enough of they have complete a workplace assessment and training on how not to be assault by angry resident . of course staff safety be everything and Environment Agency worker deserve our thank , but surely an element of common sense need to be apply . surely the good way to help angry resident be to be there and help they in their hour of need . I be grateful for the point that the hon . Lady make . I would be happy to raise it with the chief executive of the Environment Agency to ensure that when there be an urgent need for support and staff be available to provide it , that be what happen . I thank the Secretary of State for come to Derby last year to see our flood defence and to meet firefighter who have save life and property when Derbyshire be hit by flood . may I echo the call for he to explore with the Home Office the possibility of put the water rescue that they perform on a statutory footing ? will he give we an update on the next phase of Derby ' s flood defence work ? it be a great pleasure to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency and meet firefighter and other emergency responder so that , together with she , I could thank they personally for the work that they always carry out in circumstance like these . she have refer to the duty that may be require of the fire service and other emergency service to respond to such circumstance . currently , there be a power but no duty . I will be engage with colleague in the Home Office to see whether we need to put in place such a duty . I will be sure to keep my hon . Friend update as those conversation progress . a couple of week ago I hold a roundtable with some Mid Buckinghamshire farmer on the measure require to mitigate flooding , especially after extreme weather event such as Storm Bert this weekend . at the top of the list be the point that my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) make about dredging and river capacity . on top of that , however , community in Buckinghamshire such as Calvert Green and Fleet Marston be be flood for the first time in decade as a result of some of the big infrastructure that be be build , particularly hs2 . it seem that HS2 will concrete over a field , completely unaware that that will have a knock - on effect on farmland next door . will the Secretary of State commit to work with the Transport Secretary and , I suggest , the Deputy Prime Minister , give their plan to concrete over the countryside , to ensure that where construction take place , there be proper — and I really mean proper — flood mitigation measure ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . we need to look at dredging and other mean of mitigate the risk of flooding , and he be quite right that that need to be do across Government . we will have those conversation and will ensure that measure be take to protect community as much as possible from the more severe weather event that we be see as a result of climate change . as my right hon . friend be speak , the water level on the River Ouse continue to rise , which mean that tonight my constituent in Newport Pagnell be once again brace themselves and prepare their home , business and farm for the second flooding incident in just a few week . will my right hon . friend join I in praise the dedicated volunteer of the Newport Pagnell flood group for their tireless work in protect our local town ? will he pay tribute to our local firefighter who be respond to this incident ? their water response unit in Newport Pagnell deal with incident across the area . I should declare an interest : my brother be one of those brave local firefighter and be currently respond to an incident in Beaconsfield . will my right hon . friend also outline what step the Government be take to ensure that community such as Newport Pagnell be well safeguard against flooding in future ? I share my hon . friend ' s praise for volunteer and the emergency service , and particularly for his brother , for the work that they be carry out . I be sure that he will welcome our review of the funding formula , which will ensure that all appropriate step be take in whichever part of the country be affect , to improve resilience against the kind of flooding that we have see over recent day . I know that the Environment Agency be aware of the rise water level in the Ouse and other slow - move river and be take appropriate step to safeguard people in Newport Pagnell , in other part of his constituency and , indeed , along the rest of those river who may be affect as river level continue to rise . I note from the Secretary of State ' s statement that the flood resilience taskforce be design to ensure well co - ordination between central government and frontline agency . can he advise whether any of those agency , local authority or , indeed , the devolve administration have request military assistance through the maca process ? if they have , be that be consider ? will he consider include the Ministry of Defence in his flood resilience taskforce ? yes , the devolved Administrations be represent on the flood resilience taskforce . we want to co - ordinate well with they and to ensure that they be co - ordinating with their own agency and the frontline staff who be charge with protect community from the devastating impact of flooding . as the House have hear today , a major incident have be declare in Northamptonshire : there be a risk to life in my constituency and that of my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) . over 1 , 000 people have be evacuate from the Billing aquadrome , and we have see hundred of worker from the council , the EA , Anglian Water and the emergency service , and volunteer and resident ’ group , work around the clock to make sure that my neighbour be keep safe . do the Secretary of State agree that the collaboration I be see in Northampton demonstrate the importance of the flood resilience taskforce that he have announce , which will bring together multiple agency to protect town such as mine ? I have the pleasure of visit the aquadrome , and I be very sad indeed to hear that it have be flood yet again . my hon . friend be right to point to the fact that it be not just about increase funding , important though that be ; it be also about get the agency on the ground to co - ordinate well at national , regional and very local level . we have a flood alert in Runnymede and Weybridge at the moment , but it take a few day for the water to make its way down to we , so we do not know the full impact of storm Bert . we hope that there will not be a repeat of what happen with storm Henk early this year , when constituent be pass from pillar to post due to the myriad statutory responder during a flood emergency . what will the flood resilience taskforce do to fix that , and will the Secretary of State support my campaign for an individual point of contact and co - ordination ? we need a flood control centre in Runnymede and Weybridge , and in all our constituency , to support our resident in a flood emergency . the role of the flood resilience taskforce be to ensure not just that there be well co - ordination at national level and between national and local agency , but that co - ordination happen far well at the local level in the way that he be describe and that there be much well communication with resident , so that they know who to contact , and can do so in a much simple way , to get the support and help that they need both when flood be come and as area recover from the impact of flooding . one of the way in which my Hazel Grove constituent have be impact by Storm Bert be as passenger face severe delay and cancellation on our rail network , particularly the west coast main line . will the Secretary of State please update the House on the conversation that he have have with colleague in the Department for Transport on how to minimise the impact , and on how to ensure that we learn the right lesson , so that future flooding cause even few impact ? we be in close contact with colleague in the Department for Transport , and safety must be the priority for both passenger and people who work as part of the crew on the train or on the ground . the railway line will be open as soon as it be safe to do so . we be aware that further step need to be take to protect all form of public transport and , indeed , all part of the country from the increase in severe weather incident . the flooding Minister , the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice , recently confirm to I that the Government ' s new flood resilience taskforce bring together a range of partner , include the Environment Agency , the devolve Administrations , select regional Mayors and lead local flood authority . however , follow flooding in Brampton and St Ives that be cause by the high level of the River Great Ouse last month , Cambridgeshire county council inform I that its role as lead local flood authority be only a support one , and resident have be understandably frustrate by the lack of clarity about who own what . can the Secretary of State offer some clarity on which agency lead the multi - agency response during a flooding event , and how be that reflect in how it interact with the flood resilience taskforce ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that important point . part of the role of the flood resilience taskforce will be to ensure that there be clarity on the ground , area by area , as to who be the lead responder and how co - ordination be happen , in a way that will provide the maximum benefit to people who be at risk of be affect by flooding . I hope that the Secretary of State will join I in thank worker at Torbay council , who have step up to help out resident across my constituency during Storm Bert . I highlight to colleague the fact that we be haunt by deep cut to the flood defence budget under the previous Government . will the Secretary of State reflect on a piece of critical infrastructure : our dawlish rail line ? phase 5 of the dawlish rail resilience programme remain up on the shelf and have not be fund yet . will he give assurance that it will be fund , to protect this vital piece of infrastructure ? I share the hon . Gentleman ' s thank to those who have be involve in protect people from the impact of flooding . I can write to he on his specific question about the dawlish railway . I remind member that I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on flooding and flooded community . large area of North Shropshire be often under water , either from river flooding or from prolonged rainfall . this weekend have be no exception , with villager cut off for long period of time and vast swathe of farmland flood . this year , there be farmer who have be unable to plant crop in the current harvest , which have just be collect , and who will not be able to do so next year — they be in a desperate state . when the Secretary of State review the flooding formula and the funding , will he consider how farmer will be compensate for store vast quantity of water upstream , regardless of whether they like it or not ? we can take that into account when we look at the flooding formula , but I be sure the hon . Lady will welcome , as I do , the additional £ 60 million in the Budget for farmer who have be affect by the severe level of flooding experience early in the year . the advice from Great Western Railway this morning be not to travel . follow the question from my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , how many meeting have the Secretary of State have with the Transport Secretary about the resilience of Great Western Railway ? it be always wise to follow the advice that be give for people ' s safety . we be in regular contact with colleague in the Department for Transport and other part of Government to make sure that we be do everything we can to keep people safe . my constituency of Witney have the Windrush , the Evenlode and the Thames , all of which have really impact constituent today . we have just lose out on some FiPL — farm in protect landscape — funding to produce modelling of the Windrush , which be upstream of Witney , our key market town in the constituency . that mean that we be unable to forecast how we can lower and slow the flood crest through Witney , which would make it safe . will the Secretary of State please look into provide well funding or enlarge the funding for such modelling , so that we can keep town such as Witney safe on river like the Windrush ? I recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s point . we will make announcement on FiPL early in the new year . finally , I call Jim Shannon . everybody know that when I be call , it be all over — almost . [ laughter . ] I thank the Secretary of State for bring forward a very positive action plan and strategy . I send my sincere sympathy to those who have lose love one , and to those who be particularly anxious , worried and depressed about their property . that be a serious worry for people who do not know what they will do next . will the Secretary of State outline what discussion have take place with counterpart in the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that the Assembly and local community have the ability to quickly regroup and get a handle on the devastating flooding that have take place throughout the United Kingdom ? I also need to ask he a question that I wish I have the answer to . one of the big question be about alternative accommodation for those who have be flood out . have he be able to give any attention to that question , and if so , will the answer be share with the people back home ? they say it ' s not over till the fat lady sing , but I be not sure that they have the hon . gentleman in mind when that particular phrase be coin . I be in regular contact with the devolved authority , include on flooding . they sit on the flood resilience taskforce and it be important that there be co - ordination across all part of Government across the UK to ensure that we can provide appropriate support for people in precisely the circumstance that he describe when flooding hit . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on Saturday there be several incident of Greater Manchester police violently restrict young Romany Gypsy and Irish Traveller child who have come into Manchester city centre to do Christmas shopping . video footage depict a group of Romany Gypsy and Irish Traveller child be dangerously force on to a train out of the city to station unknown , with one child be push to the point of nearly fall on to the track . footage also show a young man be forcibly restrain on the ground and arrest . the action of GMP raise serious question about its operational approach and decision - make process . this have cause huge distress for the many young people involve , for their family and for those across the Romany Gypsy and Irish Traveller community . therefore , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I seek your guidance on how we can encourage the Home Office to make a statement and to consider an investigation into the incident ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give prior notice of her point of order . I have not have any indication that the Home Secretary intend to come to the House to make a statement , but the hon . Member have put her point on the record and I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will note her comment and pass they on . Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Kevin Hollinrake have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . last month , the Chancellor set out the Government ' s first Budget . that Budget be a once - in - a - generation event to wipe the slate clean after 14 year of the Conservatives . at that budget , we lay the foundation for our no . 1 mission of economic growth . the scale of the mess that we inherit at the general election mean that we have to take tough decision on welfare , spending and tax . those decision have be difficult , but they be necessary . they have enable we to deliver economic stability and fix the public finance . do that be crucial to get public service back on their foot , and to give business the confidence they need to invest and thrive . stability , certainty and predictability be highly prize by business when make decision about where and how much to invest . in opposition , I speak to business time and again about the importance of stability , so in government we have make sure to deliver for they by publish our corporate tax road map alongside the Budget . in my meeting with business about what they need to succeed , the system of business rate also come up time and again . I hear business criticise a system that be inflexible , that disincentivise investment and that place an unfair burden on those business on high street across England . that be why , in the Budget , the Chancellor confirm our first step towards create a fairer business rate system that protect the high street , support investment and be fit for the 21st century . we be determined to support high street , as they be place that bring people together and serve as focal point for economic activity . their success be what people across the country want to see , and it be a priority for the Government to deliver it . that be why , in our first Bill on business rate in this Parliament , the Government have prioritise make progress to rebalance the rate burden face by high street business . the Bill before we seek to put into law the commitment make at the Budget by enable the introduction from 2026 - 27 of permanently low tax rate for the retail , hospitality and leisure property with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 that make up the backbone of high street across England . we be determined to give those business a tax cut , and we know that that must be fully fund in a challenging fiscal context . for that reason , the Bill also enable we to generate sustainable funding for those tax cut through an increase of multiplier on the most valuable 1 % of business property in the country . this target approach capture the majority of large distribution warehouse , include those use by online giant , as well as other out - of - town business that draw footfall away from high street . it will enable we to lock in new , permanently low tax rate for core high street business , provide not only a tax cut but stability and certainty after the one - year retail , hospitality and leisure relief , which have be precariously extended year by year since the pandemic . our approach provide a permanent tax cut to help high street business succeed , alongside the certainty that they need to invest and the mean to pay for it within our tough fiscal rule . the Minister talk about certainty , but one of the big problem for small business be that so many thing be happen at once , include the national insurance contribution increase , the Employment Rights Bill that be come in , and now the levy that have be cut down from 70 % to 40 % . the cumulative effect of all those make a massive difference for my business . a hairdresser that I meet only this weekend talk about how much of a problem that will be . how do the measure help to engender stability for those small business , which have to wait until 2026 ? let I remind the hon . Gentleman that , around the difficult decision that we have to take on employer national insurance contribution , we provide explicit protection for small business by more than double the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 , which will benefit hundred of thousand of small business across the country . I suggest that he talk to business in his constituency about that . we be not shy away from the fact that difficult decision be take in the Budget , but he might also consult the plan that be leave in operation by the previous Government in July . if we have pursue those plan , and if we have not take any action on business rate , the retail , hospitality and leisure relief would have end entirely next April . the cliff edge loom next April would have see it go down to zero . we have extend it , despite the tough fiscal circumstance , for another year at 40 % . that be a reasonable way forward while we put in place these permanent reform . as I mention , the measure in the Bill to level the play field for high street be the beginning of our effort to transform the system of business rate . our ambition to go far be set out in the paper publish alongside the Budget , " transform business rate " . that paper set out the Government ' s priority area for further reform to support investment and make the system fair . it invite business and industry representative to work with we on design the good possible system for the future . I be grateful to all those business and representative body that I have speak with in the last few week for their engagement already . we will consider what more the Government should do to incentivise investment and growth , include by look at the efficacy of improvement relief and empty property relief , the impact of lose small business rate relief on expand business , and the cliff edge within the current system . if the Minister be look for other method by which public finance could be effectively deploy , will he look carefully at the last decade , during which small business rate relief have be use by second home owner to flip their property to business rating and pay nothing at all ? in Cornwall alone , that have result in over £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money be pay out to wealthy second home owner through covid aid and the small business rate relief . will he look at how wealthy people have be incentivise to use that method to their advantage ? will he ensure that we have a much fair system that put first home before second home ? the hon . Gentleman raise a crucial point about ensure that the tax system be fair and that it support the behaviour that we seek to incentivise . that lead I neatly to my next point . as part of the discussion paper on transform business rate , we have commit to consult on adopt a general anti - avoidance rule for business rate in England . although that might not necessarily address the exact problem the hon . Gentleman highlight , it speak to the general issue of avoidance in relation to business rate . we will also look at how the burden adjust with the economic cycle , and we will assess the merit of a further increase in the frequency of re - evaluation . I look forward to work closely with business and representative organisation to deliver a business rate system that be fit for the 21st century , and that work begin today with the power in this Bill to deliver our permanent tax cut for high street . as I say early , the tough decision that the Chancellor set out in the Budget to deliver economic stability and fix the public finance enable we to give business the confidence they need to invest , and to get public service back on their foot . one public service that be crucial to break down barrier to opportunity be the education system , which be why the Government have prioritise ensure that every child have access to the high - quality education that they deserve . like other , I have repeatedly raise the need for exemption for religious school . for the Free Presbyterian Church in Northern Ireland , for example , the expression of its faith and treasured belief do not sit comfortably with mainstream schooling , and it be the same for many other faith . if the Government be determined to press ahead , do the Minister agree that exemption must be make , at the very least , for such school ? on behalf of those church , those faith and those people , I have to say that the Government must think again . I thank the hon . gentleman for a rare intervention , but this Bill be about business rate in England . some of his wide point may relate to the removal of the vat exemption for private school fee in other country and nation of the UK . those provision will be debate as part of the Finance Bill on Wednesday and , if he repeat his comment , I might be able to address they more specifically . today , we be address the business rate system that apply in England . this be important because every parent aspire to get the good education for their child , and we as a Government be determined to ensure that those aspiration be meet . at the Budget , the Government announce a real - term increase in per pupil funding , with a £ 2 . 3 billion increase to the core school budget for the financial year 2025 - 26 , include a £ 1 billion uplift in high - need funding . this funding increase need to be pay for so , to help make that happen , the Government be end the tax break for private school , as set out in our manifesto . this include end charitable rate relief eligibility for those private school in England that be charity . this Bill will do that , and its measure operate alongside the ending of the vat exemption for private school fee , which be be deliver through the Finance Bill that I will be move on Wednesday . together , these measure will raise £ 1 . 8 billion a year by 2029 - 30 . the Bill make provision for maintain the charitable status of institution that be wholly or mainly concerned with provide full - time education for pupil with an education , health and care plan . will the Minister set out the definition of " wholly or mainly " ? what support will be put in place for council to afford the burden of extra pupil move into mainstream education ? school will be face the double whammy of lose charitable status and vat be impose on school fee . Hampshire county council be already under financial strain , and it will face a crisis point by 2026 - 27 under these proposal . as I will explain , the test of " wholly or mainly concerned " be 50 % of pupil , or more , have an ehcp specify that their educational need can be meet only in a private school . I will provide some more detail in a moment . of course , the Government have prioritise funding for the state education system in this Budget . the £ 2 . 3 billion increase , include a £ 1 billion uplift in high - need funding , be possible only because of the difficult decision that we have take on taxation , include in the Bill . do the Minister agree that the Budget ' s prioritisation of state school should be welcome ? I have talk to teacher in Harlow and , under this Labour Government , they feel hope for the first time in 14 year . be it not shock that the conservative party be still bemoan the removal of tax exemption from private school , rather than focus on the mainstream education attend by 96 % of child ? my hon . friend be right that we , as a Government , be focus on improve state education for child across the country , because we know that every parent aspire for their child to get the good possible education . that be what our plan seek to achieve , and I would welcome it if the opposition support our effort for the good of child across the country . member will have the chance to scrutinise the detail of this Bill in Committee , but I will now spend a few moment outline how the Bill ' s provision be intend to operate . do the Minister recognise that many independent school , such as Lady Eleanor Holles school and Hampton school in my constituency , be involve in a huge amount of partnership work with school in disadvantaged area , like Feltham ' s Reach academy , to help disadvantaged child to have opportunity that they would not otherwise get ? do he recognise that both the measure in this Bill and the introduction of vat on private school fee will lessen that partnership work , which will have a detrimental impact on many state school ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , but what will have a positive impact on state school across the country be the extra funding that we announce in the Budget . if Opposition member want to support extra funding for school , they have to support some of the tough decision to raise that revenue in the first place . they can not have it both way . I know the new Leader of the Opposition be very keen to oppose tax rise while claim that she support the investment , but she can not have it both way . if Opposition member want to support extra funding for school , the NHS and other public service , they have to have some responsibility and accept the decision that we be take , or propose some of their own . will the Minister confirm the continuation of small business rate relief for the rest of this Parliament ? I will come to business rate . the hon . Gentleman will have a chance to respond in full in just a moment . [ interruption . ] I see that he be impatient to tell we how much he support the Bill — or be I misread the sign from across the Dispatch Box ? as I have say , this Bill will enable the introduction of new multiplier in the business rate system from 2026 - 27 . the provision in this Bill will enable the introduction of two low tax rate , which may be apply only to qualify retail , hospitality and leisure property . the definition of " qualifying property " will ultimately be set out in secondary legislation but , for the avoidance of doubt , it be our intention that the scope of these new tax rate will broadly follow that use for current retail , hospitality and leisure relief . these new rate will provide permanent tax cut , offer certainty to business by end the continued uncertainty of retail , hospitality and leisure relief , which have be roll over annually since covid - 19 . our intention be for a low rate that offer a tax cut for retail , hospitality and leisure property that currently pay the standard multipli , with a rateable value between £ 51 , 000 and £ 499 , 999 . another rate will offer a large cut to the retail , hospitality and leisure property currently pay the small business multipli , which be those with a rateable value below £ 51 , 000 . we be clear , however , that any tax cut must be sustainably fund . for that reason , the Bill will also enable the introduction of high multiplier , which can be apply only to the most valuable property — those with a rateable value of £ 500 , 000 and above , which represent less than 1 % of all property in England . the rate for any new multiplier will be set in the 2025 autumn Budget in the light of the outcome of the 2026 revaluation . the Government recognise , however , that it would be inappropriate to take unfettered power that allow the Government to change tax liability by unlimited amount . for that reason , the Bill include sensible guardrail to limit the use of those power . the guardrail determine that the two low tax rate , when introduce , may not be set low than 20p below the small business non - domestic rating multiplier , and that the high tax rate , when introduce , may not be set high than 10p above the non - domestic rating multiplier . let I make it clear that those value be maximum parameter and do not represent the change that we intend to implement . they be guardrail that offer sensible limit with proportionate flexibility . they ensure that the Government can respond to future revaluation as well as the change economic and fiscal context . as I say , the exact rate for 2026 - 27 will be set out in next year ' s Budget . alongside the provision on multiplier , the Bill contain provision relate to private school that will raise around £ 140 million a year . there be more than 2 , 400 private school in England , of which approximately half be charity and be able to benefit from business rate charitable relief . the Bill will remove the eligibility of private school that be charity for that relief . the Bill provide a specific definition of a private school as " a school … at which full - time education be provide for pupil of compulsory school age … where fee or other consideration be payable for that … education " or " an institution … which be wholly or mainly concerned with provide education suitable to the requirement of person over compulsory school age but under 19 … where the provision of full - time education … be wholly or mainly provision in respect of which fee or other consideration be payable " . a number of right hon . and hon . member have question how the Government ' s plan will affect pupil with special educational need and disability . my official and I carefully consider the design of the policy , and the provision in the Bill mean that private school that be charity that wholly or mainly provide education for pupil with an education , health and care plan will remain eligible for charitable rate relief . to be clear , in answer to the early question from the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , " wholly or mainly " in business rate generally mean 50 % or more . the Government believe that will ensure that the majority of special educational need school will not be affect by the measure . the measure will operate in addition to the exist business rate exemption for property use by private school wholly for the training or welfare of disabled people . that exemption , which we be retain , mean that those type of property pay no business rate at all . take together , the exist and new provision be intend to ensure that most private special educational need school will not be affect by the removal of charitable rate relief . give the terrible SEND crisis across the country , do the Minister really think that it be good enough that only " most " of those school will be exempt ? I hope that the hon . member will welcome the fact that we have commit an extra £ 1 billion in 2025 - 26 to high need funding in the education system . the Government be commit to reform England ' s SEND provision to improve outcome and return the system to financial sustainability . I would welcome her support for our measure in that regard . I appreciate the Minister make this carve - out on SEND , but I would be grateful if he could give we some statistic . he say that " most " will be carve out . have the Government do any work to determine how many school will still fall under the provision ? if not , place such an impact assessment in the Library would be useful for member across the House . let I point the hon . gentleman to a document that have already be publish : " removal of eligibility of private school for business rate charitable relief " , which set out the impact and all the figure that he request . there be 2 , 444 private school in England , 1 , 139 of they be charity , and we expect that under our plan 1 , 040 will lose the relief . the school that be wholly or mainly concerned with provision for child with an EHCP that specify that their educational need can be meet only in a private school will retain access to charitable rate relief . I hope that that document will give he some of the statistic that he request . let I add a few more detail , in case they help hon . member in understand the policy . I can confirm that stand - alone nursery with their own rate bill be not within the scope of the Bill . if they be charity , they will retain their eligibility for the exist relief . in addition , the Bill reference independent training provider , which provide valuable vocational training course on behalf of the Government , ensure that there be suitable further education opportunity for all . because of the funding mechanism use by the Government to fund independent training provider to provide full - time education and training for 16 to 19 - year - old , the Bill provide a specific carve - out to ensure that those institution will not be affect by the measure in the Bill . as previously announce , it be the Government ' s intention that this measure will come into effect from 1 April 2025 . as business rate be a devolved tax , the measure in the Bill will apply only in England . the measure in the Bill will play their part in bring about the change that the Government be elect to deliver . the power to introduce new multiplier serve as first step on the road to transform the business rate system . we be determined to transform the business rate system to support our high street in a sustainable way , to offer stability and promote investment , and to drive the economic growth that be our mission as a Government . our vision of a modern business rate system be one that help to create wealth and decent job in every part of the country , and that ensure that high street serve as the heart of local community . we be also determined to break down barrier to opportunity and help all parent to achieve their aspiration for their child . that be why the Bill will make change to the relief from business rate that private school that be charity currently enjoy , raise crucial funding to help to ensure that every child have access to the high - quality education that they deserve . the Bill deliver change . change be what the british people vote for , and I commend the Bill to the House . I call the Opposition spokesperson . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House observe that the Autumn Budget 2024 have cut central Government funding for retail , hospitality and leisure business rate relief in 2025 - 26 , and that this Government funding will end completely in 2026 - 27 ; express concern that the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill represent a stealth increase in business rate on high street and the hospitality sector , as well as on large business , on top of the Government ' s increase in National Insurance contribution ; regret the lack of a proper cumulative impact assessment on the effect on business ; note that the removal of charitable rate relief on independent school , take together with the imposition of vat , will mean few child go to private school and will therefore create extra pressure on state school , will undermine aspiration and parental choice , and mean large class size in state school and increase cost for taxpayer ; and therefore decline to give a second reading to the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill . " it be a privilege to speak in this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition . the conservative party have a proud record of support business on the high street . we cut business rate to support small business , include double small business rate relief from £ 6 , 000 up to £ 15 , 000 , and almost treble high rate relief from £ 18 , 000 to £ 51 , 000 . we increase the frequency of business rate revaluation , make our business rate system fair for business and more responsive to local economic trend , help business to invest , create job and grow . the contrast with this business - bash Labour Government could not be great . they have bring forward a mass of new red tape for business by mean of the Employment Rights Bill . I note that the Regulatory Policy Committee release its commentary today on the impact assessment , which it say be " not fit for purpose " . it say that the annual cost to business could be much high than £ 5 billion , and the impact assessment have receive a red rating . the Government have also impose huge new tax increase on business . the bad thing be that they be not even man enough to tell business that they be go to do it — quite the opposite — which be why , as much as the Minister say that business have confidence in his plan , the Institute of Directors have say that it have see the big one - month fall in investment confidence in its history . the Confederation of British Industry say today that 50 % of its member will reduce headcount , and two third be scale back hiring . be that the kind of growth that he imagine he would bring forward with his legislation ? infamously , the Labour party promise in its manifesto not to raise national insurance . next week , we will have the second reading of a Bill that renege completely on that promise by raise employer ' s national insurance contribution by £ 24 billion a year . labour have also hit business through the family farm tax , and our good family business in other sector by halve business property relief . I remind the Minister that family business employ 13 . 8 million people in this country and pay over £ 200 billion every year in taxis . the Government be kill the goose that lie the golden egg . in its manifesto , the Labour party promise to " replace the business rate system , so we can raise the same revenue but in a fair way . this new system will level the play field between the high street and online giant " . in a speech to the House on 12 May 2022 , the Deputy Prime Minister say : " we would scrap business rate to help our high street flourish . " — [ Official Report , 12 May 2022 ; Vol . 714 , c . 300 . ] the Treasury Minister himself also state his party ' s intention to " scrap business rate " to the House on 25 October 2023 . the Bill before we break those promise because it do not " replace " or " scrap " the business rate system . not only that , but as a result of the Bill and the measure in the Budget , business rate be actually go up , both for online company and business on our local high street — yet more broken promise from a Government of broken promise . maybe the Government do not realise exactly what they be do , perhaps because member of their Cabinet have no experience of start and run a business . shamefully , there have be no consultation with business about the change . true to form , the Government have not publish a full regulatory impact assessment alongside the Bill on the change to business rate multiplier . it be a discourtesy to the House and to our constituent for the Government to refuse to consult with business , consider the impact their policy will have or publish the information that would allow Members of the House to scrutinise the plan properly . instead , they be use their majority to ram through the half - bake damaging measure in the Bill . I find it more than ludicrous to hear the Tories lecture Labour about red tape . what the Tories have serve up to the country through Brexit and the damage they have do to our economy be a disaster . to hear they masquerade as — Order . only intervention relevant to the speech in hand should be make . there be no need for that performance . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I remind he that it be not the conservative party that vote to leave the European Union , but the people of this country . we respect democratic mandate . I hope every Member on the Government Benches who walk through the Lobby to support the Bill tonight realise the price their constituent will pay for that decision . if the Government will not publish the likely consequence of the Bill , let I set out what I believe the consequence will be . the Government claim to be cut business rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure business in England , but that be not the case . the business rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure business that we introduce cut 75 % off bill , but that support be be reduce by the Labour Government . they be almost halve that relief to 40 % , mean that shop , restaurant , caf é s , pub , cinema , music venue , gym and hotel will all see their business rate rise . be that 75 % business rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure business due to expire in April 2025 ? as the Minister know , it have be renew every year since 2021 . the conservative party support business . when that 75 % be pass on in England , the same money be provide to Scotland and Wales . what do Wales do ? only 40 % relief be pass on , not 75 % . that be the Welsh Government ' s attitude to business . the conservative party support business , but the Labour party do not because it do not understand they . business face a stealth tax from Labour , with a £ 925 million rise in rate next year . that will add more than £ 5 , 000 to the business rate bill for the average pub , on top of £ 5 , 000 per year in extra cost for national insurance rise . it will also add more than £ 9 , 000 to the rate bill for the average restaurant , on top of the £ 12 , 000 national insurance increase , which mean an additional £ 21 , 000 in total per annum for a typical business . there will also be an increase of up to £ 2 . 7 billion in 2026 through high business rate via the new multiplier , despite labour ' s manifesto promise not to increase the amount raise by the levy . these tax rise , as the CBI have say again today , will be pass on to worker through low wage and to consumer through high price , make a mockery of Labour ' s claim that it would not raise taxis for work people . the British Retail Consortium have warn the Government : " the sheer scale of new cost and the speed with which they occur create a cumulative burden that will make job loss inevitable , and high price a certainty . " the Bill will replace retail , hospitality and leisure relief with a low multipli for business with a rateable value below £ 500 , 000 . that will be fund by the new high rate multiplier for premise with a rateable value of more than £ 500 , 000 , as the Minister set out . set the threshold at that high level be a blunt instrument . I can assure the Government that it will have consequence for business that be not big online retailer . it will hit large supermarket , supermarket delivery , large department store , football and cricket club , conference centre and airport . some of those on whom the new charge will be levy pay ten or hundred of million of pound in rate . at the maximum level , it will mean a 20 % increase to their rate bill . it be no wonder that the outgoing chief executive of John Lewis have criticise labour ' s lack of business rate reform and warn that , alongside the national insurance increase , this be a " two - handed grab " from business . the Cold Chain Federation have warn that the business rate change and the nic increase could lead to the cost of food and medicine go up . that might be a double whammy for consumer , as the National Farmers Union have warn that the cost of food will go up because of the family farm tax . the Labour Government do not seem to have think that through . the Labour party use to say that the business rate system create uncertainty , but now KPMG have describe the Government ' s plan to change the business rate system , as set out in the Bill , as " create uncertainty for business " . the Bill be silent on the matter of small business rate relief , which be a lifeline for many business on our high street . when the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution wind up the debate , will he confirm that the Government intend to retain small business rate relief for the rest of this Parliament ? business be listen , and it need to know . let I address the sting in the tail of the Bill : labour ' s education tax . the shadow Education Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , feel passionately , as do all Conservative Members , that the Government be make the wrong decision . this Bill be part of the Government ' s education tax , because remove the charitable rate relief from private school that be charity go hand in glove with the utterly wrong - headed , anti - aspirational and counterproductive policy of charge vat on private school fee . will the shadow Minister tell we how many state school there be in his constituency , and whether he will talk so passionately about they when he talk about the decision that this Government be make to support state school ? the Bill be about raise rate on private school , which be why I mention they , but I be very happy to talk in glow term about the state school in my constituency , include the one that I attend as a boy and the one that my child go to . I be for state school , but I be also for independent education . why be it either / or ? why would anyone ever tax education ? the Stop School Cuts campaign website estimate the combined school cut since 2010 in Thirsk and Malton , the shadow Minister ' s constituency , as more than £ 70 , 000 . will he point to where in the public record he have speak out about that ? I be part of the fair funding formula for school in my area , which have the worst - fund local authority in the country . I reassure the hon . Gentleman that school in my constituency improve under the stewardship of the Conservative Government . surely that be the key metric , rather than just how much money be put in . the impact of tax private school with vat will be that thousand of pupil move out into the state system . that will take away funding . it be already have an impact , but no mitigation have be put in place . the Education Secretary say that 3 , 000 be not the correct number , but she would not give out the number of pupil who have move . the Government know those number and they need to come clean , because the impact of those pupil move will eat away at whatever the tax raise . my hon . friend be absolutely right . I understand that 90 , 000 pupil will be transfer to the state sector as a result of these plan . we conservative hold firmly to the principle that education should not be tax . the only other nation to have try be Greece , which abandon the policy within month because of the disastrous consequence . the Independent Schools Council have say that some independent school will close entirely and other will scale back the education they offer , cause significant upheaval and disruption to the life of ten of thousand of child . as surely as night follow day , that will mean few child go to private school and increase pressure on state school . I would be grateful if the Minister enlighten I about whether this policy complie with article 14 of the european convention on human right . the legal issue memorandum consider the principle of non - discrimination regard the difference in treatment between private school and state school , but not between private school that be charity and other charity that will still qualify for charitable rate relief . I look forward to the Minister ' s clarification . during our time in government , England become one of the top - perform country for education in the western world , a legacy that this Government seem determined to trash . in short , this Bill may be short , but it be long on disastrous consequence . I implore Government member to think about their local school and their high street business that be about to be clobber , and about the result job loss , high price and board - up shop front . I ask all member to think about what be in their constituent ' good interest , do the right thing and vote against the Bill . I will focus on the removal of private school ' eligibility for charitable business rate relief . before I be elect to the House I be a scientist , but before I be a scientist I train as a secondary school teacher . in school , I see at first hand the dedication and resilience of my colleague , but I also bear witness to the challenge that they face — challenge that lead many , many teacher to leave the profession after only a few year . I leave after only my training year , cite the unsustainability of mark book at 1 o ' clock in the morning , planning lesson at the weekend and never see my family as the reason why I could not continue in the profession , despite love be a teacher . I choose to leave the profession to do something that I feel be much easy : to take a doctorate in engineering . when I train 10 year ago , teaching have a profound retention issue , but now it be bad . one in 10 new teacher leave after just one year in the role ; one in four leave after just three year . little over half of teacher see their career last more than 10 year . many be outstanding teacher who do not want to leave the profession . even now , I miss teach every day . the picture in our education system get bad when we look at math and science , subject that I know the whole House believe be vital . the math teacher shortage begin in 2012 , and in 2023 the intake of new math teacher be just 60 % of the Government ' s target . I be a physics teacher , and in 2023 there be six time as many vacancy for science teacher as there be in 2010 . in my view , the failure of the previous Government ' s education policy lead to this abysmal state of affair , and they be profoundly unacceptable . I appreciate that the hon . Gentleman be talk from personal experience about an important part of our education system . he talk a lot about teacher and the previous Government ' s fail education policy , but will he take a moment to recognise the vast improvement in our performance in international league table and the fall in the disadvantage gap in the year lead up to covid - 19 ? will he at least give some credit to the output , not just the input ? I will come to some of those point far on in my speech , if the hon . Gentleman be willing to hang on for a few minute . I train as a teacher when the former Member of Parliament for Surrey Heath be Education Secretary . he make significant change to the education system during his tenure , as the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Patrick Spencer ) have just allude to . those be change that I and the vast majority of my colleague at the time strongly disagree with . those change ignore decade of pedagogical research and favour the metrification of our child over learn . they hark back to the rote learning of 50 year ago and set pedagogy back decade . austerity be already be very much feel in the sector . teacher be expect to put in the same effort , but with few resource and with their pay freeze . now it be bad . after a decade of Conservative Education Secretaries follow in the footstep of the former Member for Surrey Heath , teacher ' pay have take a significant real - term cut . in many way , he inspire I to enter politic as a Labour Member — a sentiment that I know many of my colleague on this side of the House share . opposition Members may challenge I about why I raise these point , but I think they be all part of what the Bill be about . they be about keep teacher in their job , pay they fairly and give they the resource that they need to give our child the education that they deserve . the previous Government set a goal that all child should finish year 11 with at least gcse in math and English . that be a laudable goal , which have my full personal support , but last year just 45 % of child in England — not even half — achieve it . only one state secondary school in my constituency of Erewash attain result above that average , and even in that top - perform school , just half their child in year 11 attain gcse in math and English . every other state secondary school in my constituency be below that 45 % average , and at the worst - perform the result be few than a third . I should note that I place none of the blame for those issue on the local school themselves . I have meet several local head and many teacher , all of whom it be powerfully obvious to I have make incredible sacrifice to deliver excellence in our local education system , and all of whom have be burn by the failure of education reform introduce throughout the past decade . the people of Erewash elect a Conservative Member of Parliament in 2010 , 2015 , 2017 and 2019 , and in return the previous Government let their child down . I have be talk a lot about state school , which be only natural when they be the school that 94 % of our child attend , but I would also like to highlight the major independent school in my constituency , Trent college in Long Eaton . in the run - up to the election and since then , I have be around as many of the school in Erewash as I can , and Trent college be no exception . I have speak many time to staff and pupil , and this weekend I attend a show put on by the incredible Wildflower community choir at the school ' s chapel . it be a wonderful school , with excellent staff lead by the brilliant Bill Penty . the staff provide fantastic opportunity to all the pupil who attend . the facility be the good I have ever see in a school and the staff do a huge amount for our community , but it be a simple fact that the vast majority of my constituent can not afford to send their child to Trent college and that many of its pupil come from outside my constituency . a great part of what this Bill be about be make sure that the incredible opportunity receive by the child at Trent college , and the aspiration that they be encourage to have , be available to all child in Erewash . I want every child in Erewash and the country to receive the good education they possibly can . this Bill will support the extension of those opportunity to every child in every state school in Erewash and the country . the hon . Gentleman be give a thoughtful and impassioned speech . notwithstanding his support for the Government ' s policy , I wonder whether he regret the fact that it be be introduce midway through the year , so that child , include those with special educational need , will find themselves struggle to get involve with the curriculum and to fulfil the examination for which they have put in a lot of effort and preparation . I remind the right hon . Gentleman that if Opposition Members do not want we to have to take drastic measure to re - establish our country ' s economy , they should not have leave a £ 22 billion black hole in it . I want to flag a particular failure in the education system that be bring to crisis by the previous Government : the provision of SEND education . it have long be under - support , and after the past decade , thing be bad . opposition Members will claim that the Bill will make SEND provision bad still . let I tell they that for SEND child and their family in my constituency and across derbyshire it be scarcely conceivable that thing could get any bad . some 20 % of the casework that I receive in my office relate to SEND problem . the recent ofsted report on SEND service offer by Conservative - run Derbyshire county council find that it have " widespread " weakness , that communication with parent be " poor " and that child ' s need be often not accurately identify or provide for . the report be utterly damning — it be the bad ofsted report I have ever see — and derbyshire county council ' s failure be extreme . for my constituent , the local election can not come soon enough . I be very pleased when the Chancellor announce in the Budget an extra £ 1 billion to support SEND service . have speak extensively to parent of SEND child in my constituency , I can say that they be not worried about whether private school fee might increase ; they be worried about whether their child will be able to go to school at all . this Bill be about provide equality of opportunity . it be about ensure that a child ' s postcode or their parent ' income do not determine their chance in life . this Bill will provide fund to fix our state school , reverse the bite of austerity , get more teacher into school and help they to stay there , ensure that all child be properly include , and ultimately provide they with the education they all deserve . I feel strongly that support this Bill be my duty to my Erewash constituent and to its school , its teacher , its child , their parent and the future of our town and village . it be my duty , therefore , to vote for the Bill . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the great british high street be on life support . many brick - and - mortar business be barely survive and , where they be , it be often against the odd . change in our trading relationship with Europe , the covid - 19 pandemic , energy price , the cost of living and the Conservatives ' disastrous mini - Budget have all take their toll , but for year one measure have stifle high street business more than any other : the broken business rate system . the business rate system be unfair on company , bad for our local community and damage to our national economy . it penalise manufacturer when they invest to become more productive and energy - efficient . it leave pub and restaurant with disproportionately high tax bill and it put brick - and - mortar shop at an unfair disadvantage compare with online retail giant . in too many place pub , restaurant and shop be be force to close , take with they job , opportunity and treasured community space , and consumer be see the cost of this unfair tax pass on to they . more broadly , this outdated system inhibit business investment , job creation and economic growth , hold back our national economy , yet for too long it have be allow to continue . in their 2019 manifesto , the previous Conservative Government promise a fundamental review of business rate to ease the tax burden on small business . yet in 2022 , when I challenge the then Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , on his personal commitment to make that happen , he admit in this place that it be " another of the promise I now vainly wish I have not make " . — [ Official Report , 17 October 2022 ; Vol . 720 , c . 430 . ] business be tired of be treat with such cynicism and of rely on a patchwork of last - minute temporary relief . they can not plan , they can not invest and they can not grow . they be cry out for fundamental reform and a new , fairer system . before this autumn Budget , Liberal Democrats call on the Chancellor to reform business rate completely , with a new system , and to do so no later than April 2026 . we believe the new system should be base on our liberal Democrat call for a commercial landowner levy — a bold move that would deliver a real shot in the arm for our high street . instead of pursue fundamental reform , instead of fair reform , this Bill be just more tinkering . rate relief have be a stick plaster — but , boy , be that plaster be rip off in April , with a big reduction in relief . many small business now say that the increase in business rate , combine with the increase in national insurance contribution , will be too much for they to absorb . my hon . friend be make an excellent case . along with the point I make in my previous intervention about the opportunity for abuse under the rate relief system , particularly by holiday home , do she accept that the methodology use by the current rating system for parking space in out - of - town retail outlet such as supermarket hand a massive advantage to those supermarket in comparison with town centre shop , and that we need a rating system that actually levy a rate on that benefit at a level that ensure an even play field ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that this break business rate system be unfair in many way and it be the big giant , online or otherwise , that be get an easy ride . the Bill fail to address many other problem with business rate . for example , it do nothing to support business outside the three sector of retail , hospitality and leisure , mean it exclude key sector such as manufacturing that be particularly negatively affect by the current system . it do not address the £ 51 , 000 cliff edge . property with a value over that threshold be not eligible for the small business multiplier , even though they be small business , and with rate relief go down , business rate bill for small business will go up . from next April , business rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure will be cut from 75 % to 40 % and this Bill do nothing to avert that blow . the Minister say he want to rebalance business rate . I welcome that direction of travel , if it turn out to be true , but in the absence of an impact assessment , I be particularly worried about unintended consequence . I say this in the spirit of constructive opposition : it appear as though the Government be move from a system of temporary relief to a low multipli . at the moment , a small business enjoy 75 % business rate relief , but a very large chain have its relief cap at £ 100 , 000 . if I have understand it correctly , independent shop will see their relief drop from 75 % to 40 % , while big chain such as pubcos and supermarket may see their relief uncap , which could give they a tax reduction of ten of million of pound . I would be grateful if the Minister write to I to share some modelling to reassure I that that be not go to happen and that we will not see independent business inadvertently subsidise big chain store and multinational . the impact of the Government ' s change to business rate will have a massive effect on small business in my constituency . the old pub in Britain — or so they claim — Ye Olde Fighting Cocks , will see a whopping increase of £ 30 , 000 per year in its business rate alone . the Save St Albans Pubs campaign say that even an average pub in St Albans , with a rateable value of £ 100 , 000 , will face an additional £ 19 , 000 in its business rate bill from April . if we assume that an average pub make 30p profit per pint , each of those pub would need to sell an extra 60 , 000 pint a year , or almost 1 , 200 pint extra a week — and that be before factor in the increase in national insurance contribution . other low - margin , large - premise business , such as child ' s soft play activity centre , will also lose out under these change . dj ' s play run much - love indoor play centre across Hertfordshire , which exist in large warehouse - style premise . the building be large , but the profit margin be not . DJ ' s play and many other like it provide a valuable and enrich educational experience for child , but they too will struggle to keep their head above water . the Liberal Democrats be also oppose to the Bill because it would levy a tax on education by remove the business rate exemption for private school that be charity . we be oppose in principle to the taxation of education , because it be a public good . we believe that parent must be give choice when it come to their child ' s education . many family feel that , whether due to bullying , SEND provision , mental health issue or other factor , the state system can not meet their child ' s need . one of the first thing the coalition Government vote to do be to scrap the Building Schools for the Future programme , which impact school in my constituency include Calder high school , Brooksbank and Todmorden high school . will the hon . Lady reflect on whether that be a mistake by her party and whether it have prevent state school from be able to provide for more student ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . he may know that during those coalition year , both the health and education day - to - day budget be protect and it be after the Liberal Democrats leave the coalition in 2015 that capital budget be serially raid to pay for day - to - day spending . to return to my point , there be almost 100 , 000 child with SEND in private education without education , health and care plan , and it will be those family who bear the brunt of this measure . we Liberal Democrats have table our own reason amendment set out the reason why we be against the Bill , but I have a number of question for the Minister that I would be grateful if he could address in his sum up . will there be an impact assessment that set out the impact on small business on high street ? will he exclude any new investment from business rate valuation from April , so that business that be able to invest in their future will not see that investment push up their rate bill even high ? will he think again and complete the consultation before unfreeze the rate relief , which could badly affect small business and our high street ? will he confirm whether the change from a system of capped temporary relief to an uncapped lower multipli will inadvertently end up with small business subsidise big corporation ? the Government say that they want growth , and so do we , but these business rate change will stifle the growth of small business and high street at a time when we should be unleash it . we urge Ministers to think again . like my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , I will speak about the removal of the charitable tax status of private school . I stand here as not just the Labour MP for Wolverhampton North East , but someone who have spend more than 25 year work in state secondary school as a science teacher and a deputy headteacher . my experience in classroom have show I the stark reality of the funding disparity across our education system . remove the charitable tax status of private school be necessary and fair . many staff work in state school across the country will empathise with I when I say that in recent year , something as basic as a class set of glue stick or reliable access to working printer have become a luxury . we have to make tough choice . we be struggle to provide subject and department capitation budget for subject such as science , art , design and technology and music and to provide the resource need for student to thrive with hand - on learning . we be struggle to fix leak roof and fund much - need support service for vulnerable student . these be not decision that any school leader should face , but they be the reality in too many state school . contrast that with the resource available to private school , which benefit from the charitable tax exemption , give they a financial advantage . be it fair that while state school struggle to afford basic supply , private school enjoy tax break that widen the gap ? I think not . the gulf in top GCSE result between private school and state school be vast . this year , almost 50 % of the gcse take by private school student be at least a grade 7 , while less than 20 % of result from student in comprehensive and academy reach the same level . by remove tax exemption on private school , we have the opportunity to generate an estimate more than £ 1 . 5 billion annually . those fund will catalyse the transformation need in our state school . imagine recruit and retain more talented teacher , modernise age building , expand student wraparound support service and ensure that every child , no matter where they be from , have access to high - quality education . this be not about punishment ; it be about fairness . some will argue that this policy could drive up fee , put private education out of reach for some family , but let we be clear : private school be business . many have financial reserve , endowment and donation that they can draw on . they can adapt , just as state school and school leader like myself have have to adapt and balance constrain budget for many year . this new Government ' s record on education will be one of fairness and equity . we be invest in early year education , free breakfast club , great - quality apprenticeship and staff recruitment and retention , but we need resource to make those ambition a reality . remove charitable tax exemption be a necessary and responsible step in build an education system in which a child ' s potential be not define by their family ' s wealth . I have see what state school can achieve when they be give the resource they deserve — when a child who once struggle to find their confidence suddenly excel because they finally have the support that they need . remove tax exemption from private school be not just a policy to I ; for the student I have teach , the colleague I have work alongside and the countless young people still wait for their opportunity , this be about fairness , just as they deserve . in my time as a junior Treasury Minister , one important thing I learn be that there be a really good argument against every tax : vat be inflationary , corporation tax reduce investment , income tax disincentivise work , excise duty typically fall more heavily on low - income group and so on . as a result , the policy tend to be , " we will do a little bit of a large number of taxis . " that be not a bad policy , but business rate be particularly troublesome because of their fix - cost nature — they do not flex to business ' sale or profitability or to the business cycle , so they can exacerbate the effect of downturn in the economy or in individual sector . business rate discourage start - up and scale - up . rate fall disproportionately on property - heavy sector . with the development of e - commerce and delivery business , the hurt to those with costly premise be relatively great . due to the accumulation of those factor , ukhospitality and the British Retail Consortium estimate that hospitality , retail and leisure account for more than a third of business rate while account for under a tenth of the economy as a whole . that matter to we as parliamentarian because of the role that such business play in our town centre , village centre , city centre and high street . there be both the direct effect that an individual shop , caf é , restaurant or pub have on footfall into the town , and the indirect impact due to the interdependence of business and the network effect . we often lump hospitality and retail together due to the commonality of pressure that affect both , but there be also difference between they . hospitality have take on more of the burden of support our town centre over time relative to retail , because there be different level of opportunity in e - commerce — there be some with retail business , but there tend to be little with hospitality business , because by definition if someone take something from a vend machine , that be not hospitality . I support the concept of fundamentally reform business rate . the world have change , with the growth of e - commerce and , thankfully , the growth of wage at the low end of the wage distribution . we need to make a sharp distinction between shop and distribution shed , but this Bill do not do that . the distinction that the Bill make in its reform be between large premise with large rateable value and small premise . a quick read of the wording of the " transform business rate " document , which explain the policy , would almost make one think that the change be design to distinguish online business from traditional retail , but they be not . the document mention " property with rateable value £ 500 , 000 or more , " which capture " the majority of large distribution warehouse include those use by online giant " . that be true , but that will also capture lot of other business , such as department store and hotel , which be clearly part of the retail and hospitality sector . conversely , some part of the distribution network of online business will not be capture . one very large , well - know online retailer have already move to a more distribute hub and speak network with its regional fulfilment approach . I dare say that those one - hour delivery grocery people have even small individual premise . in reform business rate , I hope that the Minister will consider that they can not do all the work . I strongly welcome the previous Government ' s introduction of the digital service tax , which be always put forward as an interim measure pende wide reform of international taxation through the OECD . I do not believe a broad online sale tax be likely to be helpful — definition would become difficult , and the development of some of the small business in our town centre that we value could be impede — but I welcome the Government talk about more frequent valuation . any reform of business rate must address the cliff edge that the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) talk about , as well as another problem that we as mp worry a great deal about , which be vacant premise . right now , I be most concerned about right now . the Government promise that they would raise " the same revenue but in a fair way " . that be not what be about to happen . let we be very clear : the amount of money to be raise from business rate be about to go up , and it be about to go up on the back of retail and hospitality business . the Government will say — the Minister have already say — " but we be extend a relief that be go to come to an end . " believe it or not , lady and gentleman , there be even a line in the " transform business rate " document that say the Government will save the average pub £ 3 , 300 a year . they may say that , but that be not how it will feel to that pub or to the typical retail , leisure or hospitality business in any of our constituency when they discover that the relief on business rate be come down from 75 % to 40 % . for many business , in real term , that mean a doubling or more of the business rate they pay , and we can not see that in isolation — it come on top of many other pressure . the increase in the national living wage be a good thing . the national living wage have be a very successful policy that , since 2015 , have reduce the number of people in work on low pay from one in five to less than one in 10 . however , I be afraid that the further increase in the national living wage — which I welcome — come with thing that I do not welcome , particularly the great extra cost pressure on employer ' s national insurance contribution . a lot of nonsense have be talk about whether that count as a tax on work people . everybody know that in the end , employer taxis on labour only ever show through in low employment figure or wage low than they otherwise would have be . on top of that , there be the french - style labour law . while high employer ' s national insurance contribution may result in low employment at any individual institution , the effect of the business rate hike will be that some establishment will close altogether . before I sit down , I want to say a word about school , a topic on which impassioned speech have be make by member across the House . Most of what colleague have say will probably be discuss again on Wednesday , when the Finance Bill have its second reading — I can assure the Minister that we will be back for that debate , too . relatively speak , the measure in this Bill be small compare with the vat change . this Bill be project to eventually raise £ 70 million for the Treasury and another £ 70 million for local authority , compare with £ 1 . 6 billion through the vat hike . these measure also have a relatively small effect on displacement into state school , but let we be clear : there be still displacement into state school . that be a cost to the state , but more importantly , when it come to individual place , it will be a strain on some of our local school system , on class size and , ultimately , on parent ' prospect of get the first choice for their child — the school they want to go to . although colleague on both side of the House have say that we can not talk about the rate alone , but have to put they together with vat , there be four thing happen this year that will increase the amount of money go out of independent school into the Exchequer . business rate be one of they ; VAT be the second ; the third be the rise in employer ' s national insurance contribution , which will have a big effect on this sector ; and the fourth be the five - percentage - point increase in employer contribution through the teacher ' pension scheme . I estimate that for most school , that measure on its own account for about 3 . 5 % of total cost . all this matter because of the uneven effect it will have on displacement into state school . whether a person be in Salford or in Surrey , in Bristol or in Bury , they may find that great and unexpected strain be put on the school in their area . this measure , as well as the vat measure , will also have a disproportionate effect on low - cost faith school , many of which rely partly on donation to keep go . those be not business that be in some way well endow ; they be do something because they believe it serve the need of their faith , something that they can not find in the state sector . some of those school be charge less than the cost of the average state school place in our country , and it seem bizarre that this Government wish to hammer they . it will also create a two - tier charity system in which some charity can be disfavour fiscally even while comply with their charitable obligation and serve their community . it be a new and most unwelcome example of state overreach , and I will be vote against the Bill this evening . I will base much of my contribution on the latter part of this Bill , which deal with private school . however , before I go into that , I welcome the change that the Minister be propose through this legislation that will massively benefit our high street . the reality be that the past 14 year see our high street devastate by the previous Government . in particular , I welcome the permanent lowering of business rate in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector , which I think will be a huge boost to our high street . on the school part of the debate , it would be remiss of I not to start by mention the 14 year of brutal Tory cut that have lead we to this moment , in which state school be hang on by a thread . they be abandon for 14 year by a Government who bring zero investment to schooling — who simply watch the sector struggle through the covid - 19 pandemic and leave school building laden with asbestos or crumble concrete . they know that teacher be pay out of their own pocket for school supply and food for hungry student , but instead of support they , the previous Government choose to attack public worker who be close to breaking point . teacher have long pay the price , leave the education system in drove , and can we blame they , give the treatment they have have over the past 14 year ? in my constituency of Bradford East alone , 95 % of school have face cut to per pupil funding — cut of £ 15 . 6 million since 2010 . that be over £ 680 less per pupil . as such , it be refreshing to finally see a government share my value and my commitment to not leave state school at break point , with a clear plan to deliver a much - need lifeline directly to those school by end private school ' eligibility for business rate charitable rate relief and vat relief . the Minister be right to note that vat relief be deal with in a separate piece of legislation that be yet to come before this House , but both be connect in this debate , so I will also make mention of the vat relief that private school currently enjoy . frankly , the £ 1 . 5 billion that will be raise will go towards improve the education and life outcome of all child by fund the recruitment of thousand more teacher and much - need breakfast club for child . many will welcome the Government end the discount on education that the rich school and the rich parent currently get , because what kind of government arrange concession for the wealthy while working - class child go hungry as they learn ? despite some of the argument we have hear and will hear , that be not a society that champion freedom of choice ; it be one where the wealth bracket of someone ' s parent , their postcode and their school determine the success of their life . if we let this inequality entrench itself any long , we will never be able to end it . I fully understand and endorse the spirit of the decision to close the tax loophole on private school , but I also note the grow fear and concern in my constituency and other constituency , particularly for the small independent and faith school that , as we should also recognise , provide excellent and often specialise schooling for child . that be why I be pleased that the Government have confirm that , where private school be charity that provide education for child with education , health and care plan , they will retain the charitable relief , as they rightly should . my view be that the impact on small independent and faith school should be consider too , and I firmly believe that it be not in the spirit of this legislation to punish they . we should draw a clear distinction . the hon . Gentleman be quite right to highlight the impact on small school , which often have pretty low fee , so be he go to vote against the Bill tonight ? the spirit of this legislation be to hit everything in the private sector , as if every institution be Eton , when he know and we know that they be anything but . the right hon . Gentleman be a brave soul because he often try to defend the indefensible . he and I have often spar between these Benches , but I would say to he that the place he come from and the place I come from be distinctly different . I support the spirit and ethos of this legislation because I do not think it be right to give tax concession and subsidy to the rich in society while the poor of our kid go hungry in school , so we come from different place . if he let I make the point about where I be come from about genuinely small and faith school , I think it may at least answer part of his question . when we talk about these school , let we be clear that the average fee for some of the small school be about £ 3 , 000 , which be a great deal less than the average . they be maintain through community support and donation , and they be not in the same league as the Etons of this world . they do not reproduce class inequality , and in fact they enable some of the most deprived community to flourish . it would be a travesty if these school be inadvertently punish by a decision design to tackle the same inequality that some of they work so hard to break down . if we do not consider the impact on they , the school charge the low fee , which be often locate in extremely deprive community , will suffer and , sadly , the child whose working - class parent have often save up for many year to get they into these school will have to leave . again , while I of course support child move from that sector into the state sector , the reality be that 14 year of underfunding and under - investment have leave we with serious capacity issue in the state sector , which be something Conservative Members may want to address when they speak . I want to take this opportunity to recognise the massive contribution that faith school make to society . I have a number of muslim faith school that do some excellent work in my constituency , and I want to put on the record my thank to they for all they do . I must therefore urge minister to put in safeguard for small independent and faith school , many of which , sadly , will not survive the policy in its current form . this can be achieve , because I believe the money that would be generate from the small of these school be not at a level that would have an impact on the overall spirit of this legislation . Madam Deputy Speaker , you be stare at I in a very telling way — although there be no time limit , I know that look . to conclude , I agree wholeheartedly that we can not keep fund tax break for the top end of society while neglect the rest . this be something I have speak on and champion my whole life , and I believe this policy be the right one for our state school . however , I must urge the Government to reconsider , and not let small independent and faith school , which be some of the lowest - charge school , to pay the price . I must urge Ministers to listen to their concern , and put in safeguard as this and other relevant Bills progress through to their next stage . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and the fact that I own a high street caf é . I be proud that there be so many independent shop and high street in my constituency of Frome and East Somerset . Midsomer Norton , in particular , epitomise the traditional british high street , with haberdashery , hardware and craft shop . on the other side of the constituency , people need only take a stroll through Frome to stumble across independent caf é s , bookshop and tailor . we know that high street be the centre of local economy and place for community cohesion . they be idiosyncratic to the need of the community they serve , and offer local job and training opportunity . they also provide social good . for example , Denude be a zero waste shop in Frome that help support the local community to live more sustainably . yet for the last nine year , small business and local high street have feel the burden of economic instability and other pressure . the shop and business that still exist have fight hard to protect themselves , and they have in many way defy the odd . they have have to adapt to change consumer trend , compete with the rise of online retail giant , navigate covid - 19 , and survive the mini - Budget and the subsequent impact on mortgage rate and disposable income , which be still be feel . while still feel the impact of all this , some business will in the short term have to pay both high business rate and national insurance contribution . small business have prove that they be excellent at adapt , but I really do fear the impact that some of these change may have on our local high street and independent shop . business I have speak to over the last few month often use the phrase that they be " only one bad month away from closure . " while permanently lower business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure be a step in the right direction , it be still not enough to help our flourish high street thrive again , and we know that many important small business fall outside these category . the Lib Dems want to see a complete overhaul of the business rate system . instead of target small business , which be the backbone of our high street and local community , we want to replace business rate with a new , fairer levy on commercial property owner rather than their tenant . small business can adapt , but not endlessly , and I fear that at the moment too much be be throw at they with insufficient support . at the general election , business in my community be cry out for change . they feel the need for stability and certainty after more than a decade of chaos and incompetence have hit they all hard . one of the thing they welcome be labour ' s pledge to reform business rate and ensure that the online giant , which suck so much out of our local economy , would pay their fair share . small town high street such as those in Margate , Broadstairs and Ramsgate desperately need the support that a change in business rate will give they . it be vital that we create a fairer business rate regime to support investment and protect our high street . more widely , I hear real anxiety on the doorstep about the need for more teacher in our school and access to quality education , so often unavailable for the 94 % of child who go to state school . reform business rate for private school , which serve only 6 % of the population , make sense ; it be carefully cost and will make a difference to so many child in Thanet and across our country . I hope , in particular , that this reform be a driver to increase access to the creative discipline so that child can learn to expand , develop and harness their imagination , appreciate the art in all their form , with good - quality creative education deliver by qualified teacher who love their subject . it should go without say , but it do need to be say , that child raise with good - quality creative education have the potential to go on to contribute to our local economy through the creative industry , include by start their own business . our business rate system have disincentivise investment and create huge burden on our high street . the conservative party create a cliff edge for high street business across the country as temporary relief be due to end . provide certainty through a 40 % relief rate and the freezing of the small business tax multiplier be very welcome . I welcome the Chancellor ' s intention to permanently low rate for retail , hospitality and leisure ; this be crucial for constituency such as East Thanet , where creative industry and tourism business be cry out for help . I have be work with the ramsgate empty shop campaign to revive the town ' s high street . despite its wonderful heritage , thrive creative community and extraordinary environmental asset , Ramsgate ' s local economy be far too seasonal , and that make run a business all year round hard . that in turn have drive many business to the brink and leave the high street echo with the silence of empty shop . space that should be see as an opportunity for entrepreneur have become a sign of desolation . that must change . the importance of business rate change be also highlight in the other aspect of this Bill : the removal of private school rate relief . every parent want the good for their child ; that impulse be not exclusive to those who choose to send their child to private school . there be nothing wrong with ambition . if we be to enable all family to fulfil their ambition , we must ensure that they all have access to the very good quality education . it be our duty as a society and a country to ensure that all those child ' s talent , aptitude and interest be nurture . vast swathe of working - class child do not have access to the kind of education that would be genuinely transformative . for example , the last Government cut back radically the amount of art education in state school , lock working - class child out of the opportunity to find their talent , tap into their imagination , and learn how to play an instrument , express themselves through dance , wield a paint brush , work with clay or look deeply and critically at the world around they and respond to it . they pursue a curriculum that damage the prospect of those child . in contrast , private school know that creative education be good for child ' s wellbee and academic outcome . that be why they put so many resource into develop it . that be why they allocate the resource , build the asset and invest in the teaching staff to ensure that their child get that access to the creative art that contribute to society in every dimension . unsurprisingly , 40 % of those work in the film , tv and music industry be educate at private school . who know the amount of untapped talent in the 94 % of child in state school that we have lose as a country because of the action of the last Government . it be estimate that the creative sector in the UK be worth £ 125 billion and employ 2 . 3 million people . we be limit ourselves as a country by not give every child access to creative education . imagine how much more we could be produce in economic prosperity as well as great wellbee if those child have the same access that the 6 % have . so , yes , it be right to find that money from the private school who serve the 6 % . yes , it be right that we find the money for more and well teacher in state school with a love of the art ; with an enthusiasm for share their appreciation and skill ; and with an aptitude for spot talent , rewarding effort and encourage creativity . those small business in my community also want to know that the child in our school become young adult as fully rounded product of our education system , with their imagination , skill and discipline develop ready for the kind of work in the creative industry that drive our economy locally , nationally and globally . if for nothing else , I urge the House to vote for these change for our child , our small business and our economy . the liberal Democrats would like to see a much more fundamental reform of business rate . although there be promise of further step , it be disappointing that our new Government , with such a large majority , be not be more ambitious now . our high street will remain in deep trouble . the retail , hospitality and leisure sector will now have only 40 % relief instead of 75 % , but sector such as manufacturing , which be have such a difficult time adjust to a post - Brexit world , will get zero relief . national insurance contribution will be greatly increase , with taxis have to be pay before a business even make a profit . on top of that , we all know that our high street — such as Witney ' s beautiful high street , as see in the Times today — be be eat alive by online retail . we need to do much more to level the play field between online and offline retail , but this adjustment be a very , very blunt instrument for do so . we need to be much more precise about go after big tech and tax it appropriately . there be a few step that we would like to see . a commercial landowner levy that tax just the land value of commercial site , not productive investment , have work very effectively in Australia , Denmark and Estonia . a land value tax be much more effective at capture the publicly create uplift in land value , rather than leave it to landowner to pocket they , sometimes with enormous gain . this be largely how our victorian forebear build our railway network , and it be how country around the world , range from Japan and Korea to much of northern Europe , fund new transport link — something that we want to do between Oxford and Witney . scrap stamp duty on commercial land would make our market in land simple and more efficient . switch the tax to the owner rather than the tenant would spare 500 , 000 small and medium - sized enterprise the admin burden of property taxation and would save money and time in collect the tax . end the exemption on empty and derelict premise would incentivise action rather than inaction . we very much hope that the new Government will follow through on their promise to take further substantial step . after all , they have the vote . over the weekend , I watch my second favourite film . at the end , the main character , or at least the main character in my opinion , utter the immortal line that " the need of the many outweigh the need of the few . " when I consider the ending of tax exemption and charitable status for private school , I often consider that line . we want all child to have the good chance in life to succeed , and 94 % of child in the UK attend state school . like every child , they deserve the high quality of support and teaching . I also believe that end the tax break on private school will help to raise the revenue need to fund our education priority for the next year . but then I realise that the phrase " the need of the many " do not quite cover it . the conservative party talk about choice , but there be really only two reason why parent would choose to pay ten of thousand of pound each year to send their child to private school rather than state school — maybe three if they go to Eton . those reason be long open time and boarding facility , and a lack of faith in local state provision . we want to take away the choice to go to private school , but not in the way that the conservative party keep parrot ; we want to make state school so good that no one feel the need to send their child to private school . there should be no necessity for private school . I think all member in the Chamber , even on the Opposition Benches , will acknowledge the issue with SEND funding in school . it have be underfunde . I be lucky enough to visit Newhall primary school in my constituency on Friday . I see the work it be do to support its SEND student , even though it be not a specialist SEND school . however , it could only do that with a small number of student . imagine what it could do with additional funding opportunity : it could help so many more . what many people fail to recognise be that these private school have the choice to absorb some of the tax . we be not here to punish student or parent . school can choose to absorb some of the tax , in the same way that the state sector have be ask to do for the past 14 year . I wonder whether the hon . Gentleman listen to the speech of the hon . member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) . many private school actually charge less than the funding that go to state school . every school be not Eton . what do the hon . Gentleman have to say about the most vulnerable school and the child therein ? should the proper design of any policy not be ground in look at the most vulnerable rather than the strong ? it be very exciting to take my first intervention from an Opposition Member , but I think the right hon . Gentleman fail to recognise the point that I be try to make . I be say that we need to support the state sector to be as good as it possibly can so that parent do not feel the need to send their child to private school . the Conservatives groan when we mention the £ 22 billion black hole , but I do not even need to mention the £ 22 billion black hole — in fact , I will not mention the £ 22 billion black hole . what I will say , however , be that we have high street that be already board up and school building leave crumble . I visit state school in my constituency all the time and I see child of all age and ability full of compassion , intelligence and potential . I have the fantastic opportunity to visit St Mark ' s catholic school in my constituency again last Friday . the student ask fantastic question . if they be listen now , I emphasise that they can aspire to achieve everything they want in life . however , classroom be overfill and underfunde . Paint be peel off the wall , and some school — not that particular school — have faulty heating . despite all those thing , the pupil could not be fill with more excitement or more desire to learn and understand . I can see that you be look at I , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I have well get on . labour be make the fair choice to support small business , to give every child the chance to succeed and to protect the public finance . I will finish with a line from my favourite film of all time , " a matter of life and death " . at the beginning , David Niven say : " politic : conservative by nature , labour by experience . " I be delighted that on 4 July , plenty of people go to the poll with that view . curiously , the hon . Member do not explain the movie he refer to in open his speech . the Carrdus school in my constituency be a small private school — it be not an Eton and it be not a Harrow — but it have already announce that it may be force to close mid - academic year because of the Budget and this Bill . I meet the headteacher the other day . she be a passionate leader who be absolutely devastate by this . she mention many of the point that my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) make about the four main area . she explain that 80 % of the school ' s cost be on staff salary , so the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution be crippling . the change to business property relief be challenge , and impose vat on school fee mean that the uplift in fee be unsustainable for many parent . they simply can not absorb this tax . after these consistent hit , the school face little choice but , potentially , to close . that mean that 110 child , include child with ehcp , will now have to plan to be rehome into different school , with all the disruption that that cause . the burden also fall on our local council , which now have the responsibility to find different state place somewhere that will take those child with ehcp . this be happen when council budget be already stretch . our state school be at capacity , and this will lead to more harm for many child . the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) mention the importance of creative opportunity . I entirely agree that the art be vital , but the Budget also hit opportunity for access to the creative art . the Northamptonshire Music and Performing Arts Trust be a charitable organisation that offer child of all background access to lesson , but the increase in employer ' national insurance and the business property relief make it so much hard to offer those lesson . NMPAT be genuinely struggle . it would be devastating to lose such opportunity for our next generation . regardless of politic , we must remember that it be our child ' s education that be be penalise by these measure . I want to speak specifically about the removal of charitable tax status from private school . we know that the total proportion of schoolchildren who be in private school be 6 % . that mean that 94 % of child be not . do that 6 % still matter ? of course those child matter . I believe that every child should have access to a high - quality education ; I say that have spend year work on the frontline in state education under the previous Labour Government , where the framework for all child ' s service be " every child matter " . forgive I if I feel a little angry about some of the chuntering that be go on , because I work in frontline education when the coalition Government come in . the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats be work together — and in the first 18 month , what do they cut ? they cut the education maintenance allowance , which support some of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged child I be work with to go to sixth form . the disadvantaged subsidy pathfinder project : cut . the National Careers Service : cut . school sport partnership : cut . youth service : cut . sure Start service : cut . sure start maternity grant : cut . that be all within the first 18 month . that cause the rot to set in within our education system , and it be the very reason why I be stand here today . at the school gate in the morning — this be a bit of reality — when I drop off my son , I stand side by side with parent juggle job and home life , who have ambition for their child that know no boundary . every parent I have ever work with want well for their child . whether someone be financially able to send their child to private school do not change that , yet there be a huge disparity in choice . state school be struggle . department for Education figure release in January this year show that last year 13 % of local authority maintain school be in deficit . that be 4 % high than in 2021 - 22 , and there be report that 19 of those school be in Nottinghamshire . in my constituency of Sherwood Forest , the Stop School Cuts campaign estimate that 69 % of school have face cut to pupil funding since 2010 . that be have a huge impact on the life of child in my constituency and on their health , wellbee and mental health . one area of my constituency have the high rate of male suicide in the whole country . I regularly meet school in my constituency . I see how hard the staff work to ensure that child still get a quality education despite the challenge that they face . one of the main challenge be fund . I want to illustrate what that mean in day - to - day life . Leen Mills primary school be a fantastic school serve its community and some of the most disadvantaged child live in my community . it be unable to afford acceptable building and classroom for its child to learn in — one that facilitate learn and be comfortable for pupil and staff . pupil have to walk outside between building — temporary building — to use the toilet in all weather , come rain or shine . that should not be the case , yet it be so hard for the school to meet the most basic requirement without have to put up a fight . the change to private school ' charitable tax status will generate additional funding so that we can improve our public service for all child and young people . with more funding for school such as Leen Mills primary school , all pupil , no matter where they live or how much their parent have , would have the right to access a safe and comfortable learning environment . the change be also about make sure that we have enough teacher , in particular one who know and understand SEN provision . we know — I have see it — that if we well invest in our public mainstream school , that will drastically impact pupil with SEN and those from the most disadvantaged background . it should not ever be that a parent ' s only option be an independent private school . that be an indictment of the previous Government — the rot set in with the coalition Government — whose fail education system continue to fail child . the truth be that education in the state sector have be neglect . how do I know ? I see it as a parent . today , there be a 20 % difference between pupil who have access to free school meal — an indicator of poverty — and those who do not at GCSE . that be not an education system achieve as it should . I see this every day as a parent , as a governor and as a professional . when we get it right , education change live and transform whole community . this government will once again transform education so that every child — include every child in my constituency — matter , because education should be a right , not a privilege . since become a Member of Parliament early this year , I have be hearten every time I have hear Ministers confirm that business rate reform be plan . I know what impact business rate can have on town centre through my work as a council leader and my time own and operate a high street business for nearly 14 year in my constituency of Mid Dorset and North Poole — I do not any more , so I do not need to declare that as an interest . but that be why I be so disappointed to read the Bill , which simply tinker around the edge and do nothing to fix the foundation of our town centre or about the inequity of business rate between physical and online business . I welcome the high rate aim at large warehouse , but it do not go far enough . those online business have suck the life out of our high street , and if what the Bill propose be the extent of the change , it will not support anyone . it be not just favourable business rate that benefit online business ; they can use tax loophole to avoid pay the taxis that small business pay as a proportion of their profit . do the hon . Member agree that the Government have other mechanism for raise such funding ? I agree with the hon . member and thank he for his intervention . I be just about to say that we need a proper tech tax on online business , which should be ringfence to stay in local community , where council could use it to support town centre in a way that work for they . many council be not able to keep the business rate accrue in their area ; they be set externally and send elsewhere to support other community . that be not understand or even appreciate by local community . I can not remember the number of time that , as a local government leader , I be shout at by people say , " you ' re make all that money as a council . " People think that the council own the business and the property and that they set the rate . the fact be , they be set elsewhere , and council do not have the power to provide discount without have to plug the gap not just for their own area , but for what they send to Government . that be what real reform would look like . the hon . member be make some wide - range point . I think the Government ' s policy in this area be excellent . I remind she that there be a range of other policy that local government can implement . I commend my own local council in Reading , where there have be a lot of work to try to keep local small business active in the town centre through planning and a range of other thing . it be really important to work with the business community . would she like to comment on that ? absolutely . we be look to work with the rental auction that be come in . when I be the Lib Dem spokesperson in a Westminster Hall debate a few week ago , I be encourage to hear that they be come through . I hope that that happen quickly , and that they do not have the loophole that I fear they would have . I will move on to my concern about this policy . we need to ensure that those who profit from business pay . business rate as describe in the Bill be not just related to the rateable value but be explicitly link to the rental value . they bear no relationship to the type of business , its profitability or its broad benefit to the community or to society . I would like to give an example , which I know be accurate because the figure come from the business that I use to own . it predate the retail , hospitality and leisure discount , but that it be not guarantee to be continue anyway . I think the number will startle you . we own a caf é on a high street in an affluent community with an old population , with competition from several source , include a Costa franchise and a church caf é , which of course pay no rate . the rent on our caf é be £ 25 , 000 a year . our rate bill be £ 19 , 000 . that mean that I be not eligible for a penny of small business rate relief , so my rent and rate bill be around £ 4 , 200 a month . in a ward less than three mile away , a caf é on that high street be be market with a rental of just £ 12 , 500 , and a rateable value of £ 11 , 000 . thank to small business rate relief — I be sure you will say that be a great thing , and it be — it pay no rate , so its fix outgoing be £ 1 , 900 . I be sure that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , do not think that we could charge 2 . 5 time more for a tuna mayo sandwich and a cup of coffee than the caf é down the road . that be the problem with the way that business rate work . this inequity , and the pressure it put on my business and all those I represent when I chair the Broadstone chamber of trade and commerce , be what get I into politic . as sad as that is , that be why I get involve and why I stand here today to say to you that the Lib Dems want you to go far . we want business rate replace with a proper landowner levy , so that it be not the tenant who pay but those who really benefit from the property — the people who own it . the Bill may be a reasonable start , but it do not go far enough . I would love to see you go far . order . before I call the next speaker , I say to the hon . Lady that I know she will not have intend to do so , but she say " you " repeatedly , and it be very unclear whether she be address I . I suspect that the last time it be to the Minister . charitable tax relief be mean to be for organisation that do something for the good of society . they get tax break because they be suppose to benefit the public , especially those who need it most . but when we look at private school , we start to see a problem . these school be not serve the wide public . they charge eye - watering fee , and the vast majority of people simply can not afford to send their kid there . here be the real issue : private school be benefit from a process that should be support the whole of society . they get tax break worth million of pound every year , and what do we get in return ? an education system that reinforce and uphold structural inequality . meanwhile , state school — the one that serve the vast majority of kid — be leave to scrape by , struggle with overcrowded classroom , outdated resource and ever - decrease funding . the Bill be redistributive , and it mean that the money go into private school will be far well spend improve the chance of all child . I want fairness , as do my constituent , and an equal chance for all our child . those on the Opposition Benches say , " private school give scholarship , do charity work and help kid in need . " but let we be honest : that be a drop in the ocean . here be the kicker : private school be not even charity in the true sense of the word . they might not make a profit , but many of they be run by private company that make money off investment and land . we all know that the large private school in the country have no shortage of cash , yet they still get subsidy that could be use to fix the mess leave by the previous Government in our state school . they do not provide a benefit for the public good ; they just prop up inequality and drain resource from the school that serve the vast majority of child . I welcome the fact that we be take a good , hard look at the way education work , and we be put our money where it do the most good : raise aspiration and opportunity for all our child , no matter their background . that have to be our focus . the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who speak for the official Opposition — he be no long in his place — describe the Conservative Government ' s approach to support business . I be go to say that I listen to he with interest , but I think incredulity would be a well word . my hon . friend the Member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) , who be no long in his place , be rather harsh on the Conservatives . he say that they never follow up on their commitment on business and do not have a clear policy on business . the Conservatives have a very clear and pithily describe policy on business : it begin with f , have k in the middle and end with the word " business " . and believe I , they deliver on that policy with their post - Brexit trade deal . in case the message have not be ram home hard enough , they confirm it with a Budget that play helter - skelter chaos with the economy . I therefore sympathise with the new Government ' s approach in term of the Budget they be try to set and in term of establish stability . that be something I would want to support , but I be disappointed that I will not be able to vote for the Bill because of the effect it will have on town like Wellington and Taunton , which will be hit by a triple whammy . those town support some great independent school , which be charity : Taunton school , Wellington school , King ' s College and Queen ' s College . they sustain around 1 , 000 job in the constituency , many of which be now under threat . many worker at those school — cleaner and catering staff — be worried about what be go to happen . there be then the very serious effect of the rise in national insurance contribution on small business , particularly the many small business whose rateable value be over £ 51 , 000 . that be quite typical for sme in a high street in this country — at the small end , I would suggest . the owner of Mr Miles Tea Room , a superb place to go in my constituency , have write to tell I about the combined effect of the Budget on his business : " firstly , all my staff will now see a reduction in the hour they will be schedule . as a result , no doubt , some will leave . where many of my employee already earn over the current minimum wage , I will not be able to increase their pay rate by as much as I have do in the past . secondly , any full - time employee who leave our employment will only be replace by potentially 2 or 3 part - time employee . thirdly , I will not be invest in any capital equipment in my kitchen or new decor in my restaurant . fourthly , there be a serious potential for I to operate on shorten trading hour , thus reduce the vibrancy of the Town Centre . " he go on : " I be cautiously optimistic that a new Labour Government couldn ' t possibly be bad than the previous Tory one in term of lack of support for sme . sadly , in the space of 3 short month this Government have already prove my optimism be misplace and there will be many casualty over the next 12 month as the new measure take effect . " I urge the Minister to reconsider both the effect on independent school , and I be a great supporter of the state school system — there be an independent school in my constituency , Kingswood House school , which have around 50 % of its pupil with special educational need . many of those pupil do not have an education , health and care plan . do my hon . friend agree that school provide support to so many SEN child should retain their charitable rate relief ? I absolutely do agree with my hon . friend . I be also concerned about the influx of child go to local authority to apply for ehcp because they will now need they to get the discount , and about the massive effect that will have on already overstretch local authority . I worry about how they be go to cope with those application , over and above the SEN crisis at the moment . I be a great supporter of state school , partly because of the record of the Liberal Democrats , who not only ringfence the education budget in the first year of the coalition , but inject £ 1 . 25 billion by invent the pupil premium , which now inject £ 3 billion — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) shake her head , but these be the fact . the pupil premium funding be actually disadvantage subsidy pathfinder funding , introduce by the previous Labour Government . the hon . Gentleman ' s party just change the name . the pupil premium be new money , and it go into the state school sector . it be £ 1 . 25 billion in the first year , and it be worth £ 3 billion now . it be in the liberal Democrat manifesto and be deliver as part of our priority for state school — but I do not believe in state school just because of party policy . all four of my child attend great state school in my constituency : Parkfield Primary School , Bishop Fox ' s School , and the fantastic Richard Huish College . the idea that the only way to improve state school be to level down independent school show a shocking lack of imagination and a very disappointing approach to education , and education should not be tax . the Minister say early that those of we who be go for a different approach should be willing to make clear where we would raise the money , and he be right to make that point . the Liberal Democrats have make the same point , and they have make tough decision in the past . in our manifesto be a very clear Budget spending plan to restore the tax on the big bank ' profit . it be slash and then take away in 2018 , but simply restore that single tax would raise £ 4 . 2 billion for the economy . I urge the Minister to adopt the principle that if the broad shoulder should bear the big burden , that should apply in the business sector as much as anywhere else . the big company , the big bank , the giant online retailer , should be bear the burden of this Budget , not the small high street firm like Mr Miles in Taunton High Street and the other business we have hear about , so I urge the Minister to think far about this . National non - domestic rating multiplier : be there any more interesting topic for nearly 9 o ' clock on a Monday night ? [ interruption . ] quite right : absolutely not . I be sure that the regular reader of my blog would say much the same . our system of taxation and local government be the product of evolution and not of design . it have its root in Elizabethan form of taxation that have be inherit and alter during the passage of time to adapt to modern reality , and what we be talk about today be yet again adapt to those modern reality . like many other member , I be a former local government leader , and I might well have be one of those who be bend the ear of the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , in ask for this change , because it be well overdue . we have hear town centre describe as the heart of the community . what do we actually mean by that ? without a clear public space where the whole of society interact , town lack identity and a common sense of bond between they . they tend to fall apart , and we see social degradation . council leader such as I have spend the last 14 year try to adapt to the new reality of our economy , spend a fortune in public money and invest countless hour — include countless officer hour — in try to reinvigorate our town centre to ensure that they live on for the next generation , not simply because that be what we think well but because , overwhelmingly , it be the response that people say they want for their area . they want their town centre to be vibrant again , and to be a fundamental part of their community . the problem be that no matter what we do on the ground , no matter how much effort we put in , we simply can not overcome the huge cost disparity between online retailing and physical retailing in the high street . one would expect that , where these challenge exist , the state would use the lever at its disposal to encourage an extra boost for what we consider to be socially beneficial , as oppose to what we consider to be detrimental to society . the proposal under discussion do exactly that . they ensure that the part of our community that our constituent want , which be fundamental to their identity , survive into the come decade , while also ensure that those that no long have the profit margin they once have — surprise , surprise , in Elizabethan time the most profitable business be building next to the local church — be give a comparable break . we have hear a great deal from Opposition Members about what party in government over the last 14 year could , would or should have do give the opportunity , but I be sorry to say that they do not do any of it . as a council leader during that period , I be regularly make the case for change . we be promise change at various time , but they never happen . the one thing that we do end up with be full business rate retention . my local authority collect £ 120 million worth of business rate each year and we get to keep £ 4 million , which put pay to the idea that word have any real meaning when they be use in connection with some of these policy . this be the single big change that can be introduce to ensure that our high street survive in the future . I be very proud that , regardless of whatever idealised form the opposition may wish to imagine could exist , the policy be deliver in the Bill enable we to support the business that our community desperately want , and will ensure that business that can afford to carry a big load do so . I rise in support of the majority of the amendment table by the Liberal Democrats . reduce the high street business rate relief from 75 % to 40 % will devastate the small business on my high street in Batley and Dewsbury , and many of they will not be able to absorb the cost , result in job loss and closure . my primary topic , however , will be the implication of the Bill for private school that do not draw their student from the rich family in our society . when I speak out against the introduction of vat in previous debate , I be accuse of not want the good for 94 % of student in our country . I absolutely love state school , and I visit Boothroyd primary academy during UK Parliamentary Week last week . the child be so excited to meet I , but I think I be more excited to meet they and their teacher . I also visit a private faith school that charge , I believe , less than £ 3 , 000 per pupil and speak to the pupil there . there be private school that serve poor working - class family , and there be a reason why these family have choose to send their child to such school . parent would be penalise if we remove that choice . the other challenge that I have in my constituency be that school be burst at the seam , with very few , if any , place available to parent . many child be go to their second or third - choice school , away from their catchment area . let I come back to the removal of private school ' charitable status , which be an extra burden on top of charge vat at 20 % . student at such school overwhelmingly come from low - income family , and this reality often get lose in the debate about private school . we be all very aware of their elitist nature . with average fee of over £ 15 , 000 , rise to £ 50 , 000 , they service only the child of the wealthy . it be not the child of the wealthy , however , who attend independent school in constituency such as Dewsbury and Batley , where faith school be often the only option for family who can not get their child into local state school due to demand , or where state school can not meet their religious and spiritual need . those family be overwhelmingly from low - income background , and the removal of business rate charitable rate relief from private school will result in a further increase in their fee , in addition to the propose vat . for wealthy family , that might not be a problem . for the family in my constituency , it be a major problem . in addition , the measure will pose a risk to the future viability of many private school , which often charge just enough to exist . I ask the Government to consider that class be a reality in the discussion about private school , but not in the way it be commonly present . in many community , faith - base school be not the preserve of the wealthy ; they overwhelmingly educate the child of ordinary working - class family . the Government ' s impact assessment of the proposal show that the average cost , per school , of the removal of charitable status range from £ 27 , 000 to £ 179 , 000 a year for faith school . this issue be more complicated than measure to raise tax , and it feel to I that some important subtlety have be lose in the debate . for many of my constituent , faith school not only provide high - quality education ; they also provide child of faith with the relative freedom to express their faith and identity without fear of stigma or recrimination . I feel that none of this reality be properly consider when we discuss vat on private school , and now , through abolish business rate charitable rate relief for private school , that imbalance continue . the Government have an opportunity now to redress that imbalance , and I request that consideration be give to extend the exclusion for special need school to include faith - base school that draw their student from low - income background . one easy solution would be to exempt from vat school that charge below per - pupil state school allowance , and allow they to retain their charitable status . last week I visit Jacqueline , a franchise owner who , through sheer hard work and work her way up through the rank , now run a number of restaurant outlet in and around Mansfield . I witness at first hand her dedication to her business through the manner in which she motivate her staff as a business leader . for leisure and hospitality business such as Jacqueline ' s , trading be tough , and have be make hard by the circumstance they be trade in — namely , the uncertainty surround business rate under the previous Government . locally , I stand on a platform to focus on five specific issue across Mansfield and Warsop , one of which be to help improve our town centre . many in my local town centre be represent by the Mansfield business improvement district , and when I meet up with they , as I often do — sometimes together with representative of the Shopkeepers ' campaign — business rate come up time and again . it be clear that we need a fair system that do not put an unreasonable burden on the small business that power our high street , and that be why I welcome the reform to business rate that be be make through the Bill . the Bill will bring certainty and fairness to the retail , hospitality and leisure business that have be disproportionately disadvantage by the current system . I be far pleased to see that the Bill create the power need to ensure that we can make good on our promise to introduce permanently low rate for those retail , hospitality and leisure property that make up the backbone of our high street , include in my constituency of Mansfield , and to pay for this with a high multipli for the most valuable property . as well as speak with local business every week , I also visit school across my constituency . last week I visit a primary school that have not turn on the heating in the main part of its building for over 18 month and be reliant on the benevolence of local business to provide an essential breakfast club . it simply should not have to be that way , with school rely on local business , and I be sure that it will not be that way under this Labour Government . in my Mansfield constituency , more than one in four pupil be eligible for and claim free school meal , and the school they be teach in be cry out for additional resource to help those young people . we can not afford to offer tax break to private school operate as business when our child ' s state education system , which be rely on by over 95 % of the child in my constituency , be crumble . that be why I will be vote to support this Bill , which will end those tax break on private school and help to raise the revenue need to fund this Government ' s education priority . this Bill have several issue , but its glaring failure be the lack of immediate support for the many small and medium - sized business outside the retail , hospitality and leisure sector that be important to our national economy and our local high street . the Government claim that they would like to have a level playing field between the high street and the online giant , but this Bill fail to properly address the issue . many small business fall outside the retail , hospitality and leisure sector and will therefore see no benefit from the Bill . these small business need their tax burden to be reduce too . labour ' s plan to increase national insurance contribution and business rate will prove too much for many small business , include charity in my constituency that tell I their increase national insurance contribution will seriously affect they and reduce the amount of money they can spend on support the resident of Wokingham . small business in my constituency have see a huge increase in both rent and cost , and they have to do their good to survive under a Conservative Government who trash the economy . as a result of conservative policy over the last few year , a household with a mortgage now have at least £ 6 , 000 a year less to spend on our local high street where our friend and neighbour work . what these small business need now be a proper overhaul and reform of the business rate system , not a Bill that meddle around the edge to provide ineffective and short - term solution , and they do not need an increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution . my constituency have approximately 3 , 585 business outside the retail , hospitality and leisure industry , which be roughly 70 % of the business in Wokingham . this make - up be not too dissimilar from the national picture , so the Bill will be ineffective for business across the UK . the Bill fail to offer support to the vast majority of business that desperately need their tax burden to be reduce . it be clear that this Bill do not do enough , and so many business and charity that be so important to our high street will be leave to absorb all the extra taxation levy on they by the Government . this Bill will not fix the break business rate system , and it will seriously damage the retail and small business sector in our economy . I be pleased to speak on this Bill , which introduce the power require to reform business rate . the Government be commit to a fair business rate system that protect the high street and support investment , and I welcome the fact that , in the Budget , the Chancellor set out her intention to permanently low rate for the retail , hospitality and leisure property that make up the backbone of our high street , include Queen Street in Morley . of course , this will be pay for by a high multipli for the most valuable property . however , I want to focus on another aspect of the Bill . I be a teacher , so I will talk about the provision that remove the charitable relief on business rate for many , but not all , private school . this run alongside our general election commitment to introduce vat on private school fee , which we will be discuss on Second Reading of the Finance Bill on Wednesday . both measure will , of course , increase funding for state school . during the general election campaign in July , and in the year lead up to it , I speak to many parent in my constituency about the removal of tax break for private school . whatever their stance be on the policy , it be clear to I that every single parent I speak to want the good for their child . it do not matter whether they consider themselves wealthy or not , whether they earn enough to send their child to a private school or not , or whether they live in New Farnley or Thorpe . every single one of they want the good education for their child . like , I suspect , almost every member of this House , I want an amazing education for every child , irrespective of where they come from or who they be . that be exactly what Government member be commit to deliver , use the revenue that this Bill , and the Finance Bill on Wednesday , will raise . we live in a country where 94 % of all child attend state school . I fully accept that the parent of the 6 % of child who go to private school have work very hard to put they there , but you know who else work hard , Madam Deputy Speaker ? the parent of kid who go to state school . they work just as hard in their job and profession , yet some may never be in the financial position to send their child to private school . those child deserve the good too , so it fall on the Government to take the decision necessary to improve our state school . state school be plague by so many crisis under the previous Government . I see the SEND crisis , the concrete crisis and the recruitment and retention crisis myself . in my previous job as head of math at an inner - city school , if I put out a job advert I would be lucky if I get one applicant per position , and that be not just because of I . that must change , and we must raise the money to change it . take together with our commitment to introduce vat on private school fee , which I accept we be not debate today , the extra net revenue raise from this policy will be essential to recruit the 6 , 500 new teacher we promise the electorate we would recruit in the general election . every child deserve to be teach by a qualified teacher in every single subject . alongside our commitment to roll out free breakfast club , invest in SEND provision , rebuild the school estate , and increase per pupil funding in real term , we be choose to back our child , back our school and back our country . give the crisis in SEND , I welcome that those in private school mainly concern with the provision of the education of child with ehcp will retain their charitable business rate relief . by remove the tax break enjoy by most private school , however , we can invest in our state school . I will be able to say to the parent I speak to in Leeds South West and Morley that we be give their child the education they deserve . I will be able to say that we take decisive action to break down barrier to opportunity for all , and by vote for today ' s Bill and the measure in the Finance Bill , I will be able to say to they that we find the funding to fund our state school properly . I know that Opposition member be oppose to these change . however , the Leader of the opposition have also state that she do not object to the positive part of the Budget , include our investment in education , so my question to Opposition Members would be : " how be you go to pay for it ? what exactly be your plan ? we know what you oppose , but what do you support ? " I think that the Conservatives have make something like £ 12 million of uncosted commitment every single hour since they elect their new leader . it be hard not to conclude that we be deal with the same old conservative party . it be no long a serious party of government ; however , Labour be . education be central to our mission of expand opportunity , enrich our society and empower our student to be the well possible version of themselves . whether they live in Churwell , Gildersome , East Ardsley or Lofthouse do not matter . this Labour Government be get on with our mandate of deliver change and ensure that all our child have the opportunity to fulfil their true potential . I grow up help my mum on the shop floor of small gift shop , and my memory of the wonderful work that she do to build that business and the staff she employ be a real benefit to my life . I also see how hard she work and how hard thing get . she go down from four shop to one , then come across the classic problem of whether she be able to keep her shop open and battle with online retailer . the cost go up , business rate be too much , and she decide to close and go online . frankly , I be tired of we not take support for small business seriously and make a change . this Government have an opportunity to make a difference , but they have squander opportunity when it come to business rate reform . I see the impact on business in my high street . I have the privilege of represent several magnificent high street , in Tring , Berkhamsted , Harpenden , Wheathampstead and Redbourn , but business there be struggle yet again . Michelle from Graze Life tell I time and again about the impact the cost of business rate have on her business ; eventually , she close her high street shop down . I speak to Peter from the Oakman Group , a booming business that start in Tring in 2007 . the company be a rise star and have receive prize for be one of the good place to work for employee , but Peter now say it be on the edge of extinction . he employ 1 , 200 people but he say the Budget , include business rate change , will have an impact of up to £ 2 million on his business , so he will look to close many of his premise . my hon . friend mention several business in her constituency that will be impact by the change . I speak recently to a small restaurant owner in my constituency . they have six restaurant across the south of England and they say that the business rate change , plus other Budget measure , will cost their business £ 150 , 000 just to do what they be do today . do she agree with I that that will not encourage such business to invest in the UK , open new restaurant and help grow the economy , which we all want ? absolutely . that be the message I be hear again and again . another business owner in Tring say that they would love to open on the high street but they just can not afford it . the broken business rate system be affect our business , the people who work there and our community , which be lose out on fantastic local business . the Minister talk about build a confidence to invest , but business rate directly tax capital investment , rather than tax profit or fix stock of land . that need to change . I reiterate the Liberal Democrats ’ call for absolute reform of business rate and the introduction of a commercial landowner levy . that will tax the land value of commercial site , not productive investment , and boost that productive investment , support our local business and help community and local employer . many family have write to I about the change to charitable rate relief for private school . I support the call from the Government Benches to improve all state school , but parent decide to send their child to private school for many reason , include special educational need , support their child ' s specialist skill or because of bullying . we have a choice about how we raise that money . instead of tax the bank , be it fair to be tax the education of other child to raise that money ? just a few week ago , my right hon . friend the Leader of the opposition highlight a £ 2 . 4 billion black hole in the local government budget , arise from the recent Budget . some £ 3 . 7 billion of extra spending be announce , with only £ 1 . 3 billion of funding to pay for it . and in this Bill we begin to see how this Government propose to fill that gap . first , they come for the pensioner ; then they come for the farmer ; then they come for the student ; then they come for the employer ; and now they be come for our high street , our pub and our shop , with another whammy of tax rise . let we not pretend that this be an essential step . the choice that be make by the Chancellor and this Government in their Budget be drive up inflation and borrowing cost , with the Government borrow a record amount last month . they be drive up employment cost and council will be hit , just as they be hit the rest of our economy . I reflect that the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution , the hon . member for Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , say in 2023 : " pub be the beat heart or the anchor of many community , and the place where people can get together to tackle loneliness and isolation . " — [ Official Report , 5 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 238 . ] indeed , those be sentiment that many Labour Members have express in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall recently . but all those member who come here to express their support and champion their local pub be about to vote for a Bill that , on average , will put up its taxis by more than £ 5 , 500 a year . all this from a Government who promise to replace business rate ! indeed , Rachel from account — I be sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker , I mean Rachel from complaint admin — go so far as to promise in 2021 to abolish they . we all know from personal experience , whether in our own family or in our former life in local government , the value of the diversity of our education system . we know about the increase in attainment bring about by the huge growth in the number of independent school , in the form of academy , start under the last Labour Government and develop under the previous Government . but we continue to see this spiteful class war attack on school , and this Bill continue labour ' s war on education . several Liberal Democrat Members have mention Britain ' s former membership of the European Union , and of course this measure to become the only country in Europe to tax education would be illegal under EU law . the Bill still do not fully consider the need of our special need school . many have a mix of fully private and EHCP - fund pupil , and the balance will change over time . an example be the Gesher school in my constituency , which provide for a significant number of child on the autistic spectrum . one year nearly 100 % may be privately fund , and the next year the vast majority will be EHCP - fund . the Bill simply do not usefully answer the question of how such setting will pay their taxis . several member around the Chamber , include on the Labour Benches , have set out their serious concern about the impact on small faith school . the Government face ongoing legal challenge on the subject , which be incredibly important if our country be to have the diverse base of education that many muslim community in particular have struggle to find in the establish mainstream state sector . Labour Members have pour scorn on our education system , but I remind they of the transformation in state education standard over the past 14 year . have be a local authority lead member for education for that whole time , I would be the last person to claim that everything in the state sector be perfect . however , we see amazing progress on close the disadvantage attainment gap in England under the previous Government , in the context of our progress in international league table . when we leave office , class size be stable at 26 , which be less than the statutory limit that the previous Labour Government introduce . as in any democracy , we must ask whether the harm that the policy do to some family and to some child ' s education be outweigh by its benefit . we should reflect that if every single penny raise by these policy find its way to state school budget — although we already know that that will not happen , because they will also be fund the big increase in ofsted bureaucracy that the Secretary of State set out for we a few short week ago — it will cover less than half the cost of a single teacher in each of those state school , at a time when pupil roll in England be fall . it be quite clear that the motivation for this policy be spite and class war , and that it have nothing whatever to do with standard in our school . if that be not enough , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) have set out the very serious concern about this plan that we hear from across business and particularly from the retail sector and license trade , from the Association of Convenience Stores , which represent the small corner shop that enable our resident to access the good they need at all hour of night and day , to the very big retailer such as Sainsbury ' s , which have set out in detail the damage that this Budget and this Bill be already do to worker ' pay and to the prospect for investment , for pay growth and for training and employment growth in this country . in reflect on what we can be proud of from the past 14 year , I draw the House ' s particular attention to the fact that when the Conservatives leave office there be 4 million more people in work in this country than when we take office ; youth unemployment be half what it be when we take office ; and the proportion of people in this country earn their own living have grow exponentially . my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) and my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) have set out very clearly the importance of get it right for our community . we need to ask whether what be propose today will generate the transformation . under the last Conservative Government ' s 14 year in office , we see a 70 % increase in school funding , with 77 . 9 % per - pupil growth alone over the past few year , above inflation . it be clear that we have a decent and honourable record on investment in education . our retail sector be the large part of our private sector employment , with nearly 5 million worker . it be clear that business in that sector , from the large to the small , be look at the impact that the Bill will have on their bottom line and be translate that into low job , low growth and less investment . they be warn this government very clearly , as Opposition Members do . I invite the Minister to intervene . will he tell I whether he be willing to promise that small business rate relief will be maintain ? so far , the Government have refuse to answer that question , cause a huge degree of concern among small business of all kind up and down our high street . as the Government move to introduce high multiplier on business rate , we have to ask whether that signify that they will also move — as the Labour Government in Wales have do already — to introduce additional high council tax band for our residential property ? it be very clear that as well as come for the pensioner , come for the student , come for the farmer and come for the employer , the Government be come for every council tax payer and business rate payer in this country . that be not to fill a black hole , because as we know , the black hole do not exist — [ hon . member : " read the OBR report ! " ] order . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will take the hint . I be sure that Government Members have read the view of the Office for Budget Responsibility as avidly as Opposition Members . politic , we know , be about choice . we be proud of the choice that we make , which have enhance quality of life , wage and the economy in our country . we be deeply concerned about the impact that the Bill , and the wide Budget of which it be a part , will have on our national economy and the prospect of our people . we be concerned about the damage that it will do to the life chance of our child . we be concerned that it continue to leave a black hole in our local government finance . for those reason , we recognise that this be not really a budget ; it be a bodge - it . that be why we will vote for our reason amendment tonight . I thank all hon . member who have contribute to this enthusiastic and impassioned debate . whether they be speak from the Government or the Opposition Benches , their speech be genuinely root in the community that people live in and that we represent . in a way , it have bring out the good of Parliament , but we could not quite avoid the party politic and the rewriting of history from the conservative party . shall we really take lesson on save the high street from the Conservatives , who oversee mass bank closure and the decimation of retail on the high street , with 6 , 000 pub close in local community ? they be now the farmer ’ friend , but when they be in government they oversee the closure of 7 , 000 agricultural business . where be they when the energy market and labour supply challenge be decimate farmer ? they be nowhere to be see . now , though , they come ride on the horse — [ interruption . ] would the shadow Minister like to intervene ? come in , please . because he be here for it , as I be , the Minister will recall the last Government ' s massive intervention in the energy market to keep our light on in this country . will he tell the House whether the Government will keep the small business rate relief ? will he answer that question ? I can answer this question : it be the impact that matter . whatever Opposition Members say as the farmer ’ friend , the truth be different : 7 , 000 business close on their watch . that be what the evidence say . let I move on to the reason amendment . this Government be fully commit to protect and support our valuable high street . the fact be that retail , hospitality and leisure rate relief be due to end in its entirety by the end of March 2025 , which would have mean a cliff edge for business . at the Budget , we step in to prevent that by extend the relief far this year by 40 % , with a cash cap of £ 110 , 000 . we have also freeze the small business rate multiplier for 2025 - 26 . take together with the small business rate relief scheme , that mean that more than 1 million property will be protect from any inflationary increase next year . that be 1 million property protect by this Government . by the Minister ' s logic , be we to assume that support on business rate for hospitality and retail be to end in April 2026 ? that really be not worth give way for . I have literally just say that 1 million property will be support against inflationary increase next year . the 40 % will continue , with a cap of £ 110 , 000 . that be exactly what this Bill be intend to do . if the hon . Gentleman support it , he can join the Government in the Aye Lobby and vote for it . we know from business that the current scheme of discretionary relief do not provide the certainty need . that be why the Bill will enable a permanent tax cut for retail , hospitality and leisure business from 2026 - 27 through new low multiplier , end the year - by - year uncertainty that the previous Government hardwire into the system . that be do what business have be call for . that rebalancing — from out of town to in town , from online to on street — be exactly what people have call for in community and in business , and Opposition Members know it . their frustration be that they do not do it in the 14 year that they have in office . it be down to we to take the step that be need in government now , and we be happy to do so . the reason amendment raise concern about the impact on school in the state sector . I can assure the House that protect and improve state education be at the forefront of the Government ' s mind . in fact , we estimate that only 2 , 900 more pupil will enter the state sector as a result of the removal of the business rate relief for private school . let we be clear about what that mean in reality : that go down to about 300 a year . in any give year across England , 60 , 000 pupil will move between school ; this be 300 . we need to keep that in context , because we have hear a lot of scaremongere about the transfer , but that be what the evidence say . that evidence be place in the House of Commons Library , in case member want to take time after this debate to go and look . there might even be enough time to find the document before the vote if they want to bring themselves up to speed . importantly , this be about provide much - need investment in the state school sector . just how many parent say , " we need specialist support for SEND , because the mainstream provision be not adequate " ? how many parent — by their own admission , among Opposition Members — choose to pay for private education because they do not have faith in mainstream provision ? despite what Opposition member have say about the glory year of the past 14 year , the truth that parent and pupil on the ground feel be very different , and they know it . we have to repair mainstream provision so that parent and pupil can go with confidence to their local school , know that they will get the support that they need — support for all pupil , not just some . several hon . member have mention the impact on faith school . I want to offer some comfort . of course we value and understand parental choice , but base on the evidence submit through the HMT consultation , as well as the analysis undertake by the Department for Education on remove the charitable rate relief , it be not apparent that private faith school will be affect by this measure any more than non - faith school . there be no evidence of disadvantage . will the Minister give way ? I want to make progress in the time that I have , and to wind up within the 10 minute . the key point be that all child of compulsory school age be entitle to a state - fund school place if they need one , and all school — and they know this — be require to follow the requirement of the Equality Act 2010 relate to british value and to promote an environment that encourage respect and tolerance towards family of all faith and none . a number of member have rightly mention SEND provision — it have be a significant part of the debate , for understandable reason . we have ensure on the face of the Bill that private school that be charity and " wholly or mainly " provide education for pupil with education , health and care plan remain eligible for business rate charitable rate relief . furthermore , private school that benefit from exist rate exemption for property that be wholly use for the training or welfare of disabled people will continue to do so . take together , we believe those policy mean that most private special educational need school will not be affect by these measure at all . we recognise that some pupil with special educational need and disability will be in private school , but without local authority funding in place , as it be judge that their child ' s need can be provide for within the state sector . of course , parent will still be free to choose whether to be in the state sector or to remain in the private sector — that be a very important point to make . local authority aim to process all education , health and care plan application in time for the start of the next school year , but in special case , the local authority be able to prepay one term ' s fee if the process be not complete . likewise , some private school will forgo the first term ' s fee for pupil who be expect to receive their education , health and care plan in the future . turn to high street , the Government be wholly commit to rejuvenate our high street . we want to support the business and community that make our town centre successful . that be why through this Bill , the Government intend to introduce permanently low rate for retail , hospitality and leisure from 2026 - 27 , in order to protect the high street . that tax cut will be fully fund and sustain through a high tax on the most expensive property — the 1 % of property that have a rateable value of £ 500 , 000 or more . the new tax rate will be set out in next year ' s Budget to factor in the business rate revaluation outcome and the broad economic and fiscal context at that time . we be clear in our manifesto that we would look at the business rate system and support our high street , and we mean it . we know that our high street and town centre be the beat heart of our community , but over the past 14 year , they have struggle to keep their head above water . think about all those household name that have go to the wall — that be a thing of the past , not the future . think about all the bank and pub that have close , and about the shutter that have come down on shop premise that be once the lifeblood of where people live . the previous Government have 14 year to get this right , but they oversee the decline and decimation of our high street . People feel that in their heart , because town centre be more than just a place to do business ; they be a place for a community to come together . that be something the Tories never understand when they be in government , but it be something that this government absolutely understand . with the leave of the House , I thank all hon . member who have contribute to this important debate . this Bill be the first step on the road to transform the business rate system . the measure within it will provide certainty and support to our vibrant high street , enable the delivery of a permanent tax cut that be sustainable and that finally level the play field between the high street and online . the Bill will also help break down barrier to opportunity , support all parent to achieve their aspiration for their child . we need to bear in mind , of course , that the vast majority of child in this country — over 90 % — be in state school . this investment will see they give the support that they need and deserve , and that , frankly , they have wait a long time for . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . the House proceed to a Division . because of a problem with the Division bell in Portcullis House , I be go to allow an additional minute for this Division . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Claire Young Greg Smith James Wild Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Keir Mather the House have divide : Ayes 173 , Noes 335 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Claire Young Greg Smith James Wild the House divide : Ayes 336 , Noes 175 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 17 December 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act make provision about multiplier in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill ( WAYS and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise any increase in the sum payable into the Consolidated Fund result from — ( 1 ) multiplier that be up to 0 . 1 high than the relevant non - domestic rating multiplier ; ( 2 ) the removal of charitable relief for private school . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) question agree to . business without Debate Proxy Voting Ordered , that the follow change be make to Standing Order no . 39a : leave out subparagraph 2 ( c ) and insert : " ( c ) complication relate to childbirth or pregnancy , miscarriage , baby loss or extended absence for fertility treatment ; " . — ( Lucy Powell . ) delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Constitutional Law that the draft Bail and Release from Custody ( Scotland ) Act 2023 ( Consequential Modifications ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 17 October , be approve . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Public Service Pensions that the draft Judicial Pensions ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 October , be approve . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , term and Conditions of Employment that the draft Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( Amendment of Schedule A2 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 17 October , be approve . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) question agree to . Administration Ordered , that Bob Blackman and Alberto Costa be member of the Administration Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Finance Ordered , that Steve Barclay and Dr Andrew Murrison be member of the Finance Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Human Rights ( Joint Committee ) order , that Sir Desmond Swayne be a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) National Security Strategy ( Joint Committee ) order , that Dame Karen Bradley and Sir Julian Lewis be member of the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) petition order , that John Lamont be a member of the Petitions Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) woman and Equalities Ordered , that Rosie Duffield and Shivani Raja be member of the Women and Equalities Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Homeless Families : relocation outside London Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to raise a very important issue that reflect not just a housing crisis , but a crisis of fairness , compassion and accountability , involve the relocation of homeless family outside London . at first glance , it may seem unusual for someone like I — a Member of Parliament for County Durham , some 250 mile away from London — to seek this debate , but the unlawful action of some London borough council have transform homelessness in London into a national crisis that have reach directly into my constituency . in recent month , I have be make aware of multiple case of vulnerable family be pressure into relocate to my constituency by London borough council such as those in Redbridge , Hillingdon and Enfield . the family be be force to choose between homelessness in London and move hundred of mile away , isolate from their community and support network . a recent case involve a young mother be threaten and coerce by Hillingdon Borough Council to move to County Durham . in an email to her housing officer , she write : " now I be scared . I feel anxious and completely push into a corner … that if I don ' t take this accommodation , I will be discharge from your book and make homeless . I don ' t understand why you be do this to I and my son . all I want be your help in find a place , as you have put I in temporary accommodation in Slough and then you ring I today offer I a place in County Durham mile away from anyone and everything I know . you say I have to give you decision tomorrow or I must get out of the place I be in , be discharge from the Council ' s book , sleep on a friend ' s sofa and look after myself , how be this fair , like I say I be scared . " I commend the hon . gentleman for initiate the debate . this be happen not only in London borough , but in my constituency . the current system mean uproot child from their school and place they in temporary home that be too far away to make it work . in my constituency , a child be school in the Ards peninsula be move to Enniskillen , nearly three hour away — away from family , friend and school . it really do not stack up . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the educational need of child must be take into account ? indeed , they must be paramount . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . the whole purpose of this debate be to draw attention to the fact that the action of some — not all — local authority be illegal and should be subject to some sanction . I hope we will hear a bit more about that from the Minister . be it right that a young mother and her child can be threaten with homelessness if she refuse to uproot her life and leave the community where she be bear and raise , where she grow up and where she have live all her life ? there be no consideration of her need , the welfare of her child , their health or their need to maintain family and support network . I thank my hon . friend and constituency neighbour for give way . a similar thing have happen in my constituency . do he agree that the way council be act be inhumane ? they be uproot people ' s life and relocate they to unfamiliar place , often into property with not even the basic amenity . do he agree that that need to stop ? I completely agree . this be not care ; it be coercion . Homelessness be an ever - present spectre of our time . accord to a survey by the Big Issue , two third of private renter be worried about pay their rent and the potential adverse consequence for their housing situation . at a time of desperate need , people should be able to trust their local authority to provide advice and support , but what do they find ? they find a system in which some family be be threaten , intimidate and pressure into make potentially life - change decision in a moment of profound vulnerability . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure this important debate . he talk about the number of people who be vulnerable . in my constituency of Wyre Forest , we discover that so many people be be move from Brent to Birmingham that Birmingham fill up and they have to come to Kidderminster as well . this be a huge problem that have be go on for a long time . it be absolutely tragic for family who be separate from their family network , their friendship network and the possibility of get a job . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I be not suggest that it be a problem that affect only Easington or County Durham ; I be try to highlight that it be an illegal practice . I hope to persuade the Minister that there should be redress and some sanction against local authority that be break the law . my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) say that the practice be immoral . it be certainly questionable , but it be also unlawful . in 2015 , a Supreme Court judgment make it absolutely clear that local authority " have a statutory duty to provide accommodation in their own area ' so far as reasonably practicable ' … the accommodation must be suitable to the need of the homeless person and each member of the household , and the location can be relevant to its suitability … the obligation to secure accommodation as close as possible to where the household have previously be live be strengthen by Supplementary Guidance on the homelessness change in the Localism Act 2011 and on the Homelessness ( suitability of Accommodation ) ( England ) Order 2012 ( ' the Supplementary Guidance ' ) , include the need to seek to retain establish link with school , doctor , social worker and other key service and support . " how be it possible to retain establish link to key service and support when a family be relocate to an unfamiliar location over 250 mile away ? section 208 of the Housing Act 1996 require that where someone be relocate out of the area , council must notify the receive local authority . however , that be not happen . in response to my representation , my local authority , Durham county council , say : " we be aware of some household move into County Durham with financial assistance from London Boroughs , largely discharge their homelessness duty into private rent tenancy . placement tend to be in selective licensing area through a small number of manage agent — notably Reloc8 Lettings and Capital Letters . in accordance with homelessness guidance , council who make a referral to another local authority area should notify the receiving authority , but this be generally not happen in these case , and our referral number remain low . " the issue be not unique to Durham County Council . there have be nearly a decade ' s worth of press article document case of London borough — some London borough — break the law and secretly relocate family . I thank my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister for write to council chief executive to remind they of their legal obligation , but I must be candid about this . I contend that council chief executive know their legal responsibility and be choose to break the law . what we need be enforcement and accountability . I ask the Minister directly : what practical step will she take to end these unlawful practice ? what sanction will be impose on council that continue to intimidate family , disregard their legal obligation and fail to notify the receiving authority ? the family affect by these action deserve well , and so do the community be ask to bear the burden of a broken system . County Durham , like many area , face its own housing challenge , which be overlook and ignore by the previous Government . our council budget be overstretch ; we have limit mean to raise revenue , owe to a low council tax base ; and service demand , especially for social service and SEND provision , be overwhelming . our north - east mining community be resilient , but we do not have the resource to absorb the fallout of the London housing crisis without additional support . respectfully , I do not underestimate the task face the Minister . the unlawful system of forcibly relocate vulnerable family through threat and intimidation be create by the previous Government . I be plead tonight with the Minister not to allow it to persist under a Labour Government . council that knowingly break the law need to be hold to account . I hope that she will explain how that be go to happen . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for secure this important debate . we can all agree that homelessness and rough sleeping level be far too high , which have have a devastating impact on those affect and have cause serious harm to family , child and community . address the current high level of homelessness and rough sleeping be a priority for this Government . like the Deputy Prime Minister , I absolutely recognise the pressure that local authority face and the soar cost of temporary housing . as my hon . friend have point out , the challenge pose by out - of - area placement be also put pressure on council in many part of the country , include County Durham . Homelessness and rough sleeping have increase dramatically , as member across the House will be aware . in England , homelessness be now at record level . in March this year , more than 117 , 000 household , include over 150 , 000 child , be live in temporary accommodation . a third of the household in temporary accommodation — some 36 , 000 household — be in accommodation in different local authority district . that be an increase of 25 % in the past year . my hon . friend raise an important point about the impact on different area : in Durham , as of 31 March this year , there be 128 household and 150 child live in temporary accommodation . it be an absolute scandal that family with child be live without a permanent place to call home . as my hon . friend poignantly point out , it be even more distressing that many of the family be force to move away from the area they know — away from their friend , family , school and healthcare provider . I know how disruptive and tough that be , because it have happen to constituent of mine , who have be move much far away from where they grow up or where they be use to live . this be the scale of the challenge we inherit from the previous Government , but we be absolutely determined to address this and to deliver the long - term solution that be desperately need . as my hon . Friend rightly say , the relocation of homeless family outside London be drive by wide issue to do with supply and the fact that many local authority struggle to find accommodation for the homeless . we have an enormous homelessness problem in Birmingham , with some 25 , 000 family currently wait to get on to the property ladder , but labour - run Birmingham city council be sell the Commonwealth games development ' s approximately 1 , 400 family unit , which could be use to accommodate these family . Birmingham city council , with the support of the commissioner appoint because of the budget deficit , will sell those unit at a loss of some £ 300 million to the taxpayer . would it not make sense for the Government to help retain those unit and put they to proper use ? I will shortly come on to the proposal we be consider to support council . as my hon . friend the Member for Easington say , council should place homeless household within their area in the first instance . council should place household in another area only if no suitable accommodation be available in their own area . however , the lack of affordable housing option , include temporary accommodation , mean that local authority often do not have a choice but to place people out of area . although I recognise the challenge that lead to family be place outside the area they be from , I be acutely aware of the impact on community in place such as Easington , and the other place that colleague have mention . will my hon . friend give way ? I be conscious of time , but I will give way if my hon . friend be very brief . I stress how devastating it be when family be move so far away from home . a family from Islington have be place in my North West Leicestershire constituency and , sadly , the old child be still in Islington . family be be split , so I would appreciate a response . thank you . early this month , the Deputy Prime Minister write to local authority chief executive in England , ask they to remind their council of the requirement to notify receive area when out - of - area placement be make , and to assure themselves that these notification be be make . it be crucial that local authority work in partnership to ensure that both host community and the household place out of area receive the appropriate support . my hon . friend the Member for Easington highlight some of the concern about that . in legislation , local authority be also responsible for safeguard . this Government be commit to deliver on a big agenda . we have set up a dedicated inter - ministerial group , chair by the Deputy Prime Minister , to develop a long - term strategy to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping , and the group include a number of key Departments . we will deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation , to provide 1 . 5 million home over the next five year . and the Budget make an extra £ 0 . 5 billion available for the affordable home programme , which will deliver up to 5 , 000 new social home . there have also be proposal in relation to the right to buy and allow council to retain capital receipt so that they have the resource and flexibility to take action to increase supply , and a new five - year social housing rent settlement , which will give the sector certainty on funding and allow it to invest in ten of thousand of new home . we recognise that the supply of housing be crucial if we be to bring an end to the plight of those who face homelessness , and who be have to live in temporary accommodation and be move away from the place that they call home . we be also commit to abolish section 21 no - fault eviction , and the Renters ' Rights Bill will give renter great security and stability to stay in their home for long and avoid the risk of homelessness . on resource , the Government will increase funding for homelessness service by £ 233 million next year , follow the Budget announcement . that bring the total spend on homelessness and rough sleeping to nearly £ 1 billion in the year 2025 - 26 . that increase funding will help to prevent family from become homeless and will reduce the number enter temporary accommodation , which be crucial . we have to tackle the root cause of temporary accommodation use and the issue of out - of - area housing . alongside that , I have already announce £ 10 million of funding for local authority for rough sleeping pressure . we have to recognise that some people end up go from temporary housing to rough sleeping , which be also a major concern . hon . member raise the issue of sanction . the legislation in relation to temporary accommodation require that it be suitable for applicant and all member of their household . when determine the suitability of accommodation secure under the homelessness legislation , housing authority as a minimum must ensure that all accommodation be free of category 1 hazard , as identify by the housing health and safety rating system . the Minister be be very generous . the point that I be try to make be not about sanction against the tenant ; they be the victim in all this , often move against their will , with coercive method employ . I do not know whether the Minister have ever see the film " I , Daniel Blake " , in which a young woman call Katie be put on a bus from London and land in the north - east . that be the scenario that we be face . some of the London borough that I mention be knowingly break the law , and there be no sanction against they . they be not notify the receiving authority ; they be use manage agent and circumvent the rule . I appreciate my hon . friend ' s frustration . as I point out , the Deputy Prime Minister have already contact local authority and we will continue to keep what local authority be do under review . I commit to work with my hon . friend to ensure that we support local authority as much as we can . the resource that have be announce be key to reduce the need for local authority to send their resident to other place far away from the area in which they should ideally be house , but we recognise that local authority face multiple pressure . it be important that we prioritise identify where the barrier be in term of house building , provide appropriate support to local authority and ensure that we monitor what happen in relation to the action of specific authority . as I say to my hon . friend , I be keen that we work collaboratively to ensure that local authority take the necessary action to support those who be vulnerable . we all know the vulnerability of many of our constituent who be in temporary accommodation . it be key that they be keep as close to their network , include their school and health provider , as possible . I sympathise with the point my hon . friend make . other hon . member make intervention , which I hope I have cover . I be happy to continue the conversation on the specific issue they raise , but broadly speak I hope I address many of their point . once again , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Easington for secure this important debate , on a subject that affect not only his constituent but many other . as a London MP , I be concerned that we ensure that local area have accommodation available to keep those in temporary accommodation close to their network and support structure . that be why this Government be determined to take action across Departments in order to develop the strategy require to tackle the deep - root cause of homelessness , to ensure that we increase the supply of housing through our house building programme , and to use the funding that have already be make available for social and affordable housing . if we do not tackle the root cause of homelessness , we will continue to have similar such debate . I be determined that we take the action necessary to address not only the short - term pressure , but the underlying cause that be create so much harm and make the life of child and family who be live in temporary accommodation an absolute misery . we be determined to tackle the challenge they face . I very much hope that I can work with colleague who have a strong interest in this agenda , as we move forward to tackle the homelessness crisis . question put and agree to . House adjourn .