it be a pleasure to speak during what I hope be the final stage of the Bill . give that nearly all the Bills on which I have speak up to now have be money Bills , this business of " come back from the Lords " and scrutinise Lords amendment have not be part of my experience , so if I get anything wrong , I apologise . like other member , I want to begin by thank a number of people and organisation , include the Mental Health Foundation , Carnegie UK , the Internet Watch Foundation , the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and two researcher for the SNP , Aaron Lucas and Josh Simmonds - Upton , for all their work , advice , knowledge and wisdom . I also join the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) and for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) in thank the family involve for the huge amount of time and energy — and the huge amount of themselves — that they have have to pour into the process in order to secure these change . this be the beginning of the culmination of all their hard work . it will make a difference today , and it will make a difference when the Bill be enact . member in all part of the House will do what we can to continue to scrutinise its operation to ensure that it work as intend , to ensure that child be keep as safe as possible online , and to ensure that Ofcom use these power to persuade platform to provide the information that they will be require to provide follow the death of a child about that child ' s use of social medium . the Bill be about keep people safe . it be a different Bill from the one that begin its parliamentary journey , I think , more than two year ago . I have see various minister lead from the Dispatch Box during that time , but the voice around the Chamber have be consistent , from the Conservative , Labour and SNP Benches . all the member who have speak have agree that we want the internet to be a safe place . I be extremely glad that the Government have make so many concession that the Opposition party call for . I congratulate the hon . member for Pontypridd on the inclusion of violence against woman and girl in the Bill . she champion that in Committee , and I be glad that the Government have make the change . another change that the Government have make relate to small high - risk platform . back in May or June last year I table amendment 80 , 81 and 82 , which call for that categorisation to be change so that it be not base just on the number of user . I think it be the hon . member for Gosport who mention 4chan , and I have mention Kiwi Farms a number of time in the Chamber . such organisation can not be allow to get away with horrific , vile content that encourage violence . they can not be allow a low bar just because they have a small number of user . the National Risk Register produce by the Cabinet Office — great bedtime read which I thoroughly recommend — state that both the risk and the likelihood of harm and the number of people on whom it will have an impact should be take into account before a decision be make . it be therefore entirely sensible for the Government to take into account both the number of user , when it be a significant number , and the extremely high risk of harm cause by some of these provider .