Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Probation Service what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the probation service . probation professional perform a critical and invaluable role for our society . we be inject an additional £ 155 million a year to recruit more staff , reduce case load and continue to deliver well community supervision of offender . we be see improvement in performance as that investment bed in , but there be more to do and I continue to monitor thing closely . I thank the Minister for that answer , but he will know that Napo , GMB and Unison all say that the probation service be face soar workload . employee be battle under the pressure and sickness rate be high . with many worker off sick , the impact on public safety will be massive . something must be do . step outside the politic of this , will he commit to work constructively with union and other agency to bring about a strategy that will address this critical area of probation ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman who I know take a very close interest in these matter , and rightly so . I commit to work in partnership with union and other representative body and other to make sure that we have the right support for this service . let I reassure he that recruitment to the probation service have be very encouraging over the past three year and we have manage to exceed our stretching recruitment target . let I welcome the shadow Minister to her post . thank you , Mr Speaker . in July , his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Probation report that it have find that far too many potential victim of domestic violence be at risk from those on probation due to wide - range systemic failure in the service . furthermore , the chief inspector of the probation service say that thing have deteriorate since the 2018 report into the probation service . be the Minister not concerned that , once again , after 13 year of conservative rule , thing be continue to get bad for victim of domestic violence ? first , may I join you , Mr Speaker , in welcome the hon . Lady to her place ? I look forward to work constructively with she . she raise an important point about the protection of people from domestic abuse from those who be on probation . I can reassure she that we have put in place further measure and , indeed , invest additional money — £ 1 . 5 million a year — to support those extra check into address of where offender may be go , to make sure that there be not that domestic abuse risk . Prison Release : Employment what step his Department be take to help offender find employment follow release from prison . we continue to develop opportunity for work and training , both during custody and on release . I be pleased to say that the proportion of prison leaver employ six month after release have increase markedly over the past two year . what help can the Department give to aid the mobility of this potential workforce and get they to where they need to be ? my hon . friend raise an important point . go to where the job opportunity be be incredibly important ; I would mention to her opportunity such as the Jobcentre plus railcard through the Department for Work and Pensions . we also need to make sure that , at the point of release , prisoner be put in touch with opportunity near to where they live — where they be go to . although we work with employer large and small , there be a particular value in work with multi - site firm that have location in many different place . there have be seven death in Wormwood Scrubs prison as a result of self - harm in the past three year . the first of the inquest into those death — that of Luke Clarke — be conclude only last month . it find that inadequate care , fear and confusion contribute to Luke ' s death . what be the Ministry of Justice do to prevent the unacceptable level of self - inflict and avoidable death in prison and what be it do to speed up the inquest process ? I be still wait for the meeting into the inquest process that I be promise on 27 June by the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) . we be talk about employment on release , but what the hon . Gentleman raise be incredibly important . I have visit Wormwood Scrubs . rate of self - harm be unacceptably high . they vary by place . in the woman ' s estate , we have a particular issue with self - harm . we be work closely with the national health service , which provide mental health support in prison . I be absolutely determined that we bring down level of self - harm . I call the new shadow Minister . Prison leaver in employment training be less likely to reoffend . that mean that education and training for young offender in prison be crucial . will the Minister say why the Government have fail so far to implement a new prison education service ? it be promise in their party ' s manifesto in 2019 . implement it in 2025 be too little , too late . I join you , Mr Speaker , in welcome the hon . Lady to her place and similarly look forward to work with she . I can bring her good news . first , there be an education service operate in every prison , with four contract provider . we also have additional provision that governor can put in place , but for the new service that she mention — it be indeed a manifesto commitment — the process be well under way . I look forward to be able to make further announcement before long . violence against Women and girl what step his Department be take to reform the criminal justice system to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step his Department be take to reform the criminal justice system to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step his Department be take to reform the criminal justice system to help tackle violence against woman and girl . the crime associate with VAWG be abhorrent , which be why we have already take significant action to strengthen the criminal justice system ' s response to it , include for example through our end - to - end rape review , drive up prosecution , and the introduction of new protection for victim through the landmark Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . much have be do , but we be ambitious in want to go far . I understand what the Minister be say , but it take two year or more for rape case to come to court , and 69 % of victim withdraw from the case before they come to trial . have the Minister have the chance to look at our proposal for specialist rape court in every Crown court in the country ? I crave your indulgence , Mr Speaker . may I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the hon . member for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) , who shadow I for some time , and to the hon . member for Lewisham West and Penge ( Ellie Reeves ) , who also do so ? I wish they both well , although give the latter ' s election co - ordination role , hopefully not too well . it remain our priority to deliver swifter access to justice for victim of rape . as the hon . Gentleman say , the experience of attend court be incredibly difficult for they . that be why we have commit to increase the number of independent sexual violence adviser and independent domestic violence adviser to more than 1 , 000 over the next three year . in June 2022 , we announce our ambitious specialist sexual violence support project in three Crown court , aim at improve facility and technology . on the hon . Gentleman ' s specific question , I would urge a degree of caution on those proposal . list be a judicial prerogative , and it be important we retain flexibility in the use of the court estate to maximise the use of court and judge ' time for a range of offence and to meet the need of the court . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse recognise the issue with the criminal justice system and say : " the length of time take to investigate and prosecute child sexual abuse case be … a matter of significant concern . delay within the criminal justice system can add to the harm cause by sexual abuse " . the experience of a constituent I be help suggest that be still the case . what mandatory training for court , judicial and other criminal justice be available to ensure that they appropriately support people who have be subject to this abuse ? it be nice to see the hon . Lady in her place and it be always a pleasure to answer question from she . she highlight an important issue raise by IICSA and historic and current child sexual abuse . it be worth remember that the investigation of such crime can be lengthy because of the complexity of the crime and of obtain evidence . while training for the judiciary and court be a matter for the judiciary and the Judicial College rather than for the Government , we have be invest in training , as have police force , across a range of specialism , include handle child sexual abuse case . it be important that they be handle with sensitivity and with an understanding of the impact that the trauma have have on those who be victim , and indeed also those who be witness . she touch on a specific case and I be happy to engage with she outwith the Chamber if that would be helpful . accord to the late research , rape charge be take long to be bring forward ; the average time a victim have to wait for their attacker to be charge — just charge — be now 400 day , over a year . that be disgraceful , and the situation be get bad . when will minister speed up the process and give woman , girl and all victim of rape across England and Wales the justice they deserve ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the importance of timeliness . one of the key aim of Operation Soteria — the new model for investigate rape and serious sexual offence that be be roll out to all police force in the come month — be to improve timeliness . investigation in this space be , of necessity , often complex and can take a long time . the number of rape conviction be at or around the level it be in 2010 . now , the number of case pass by the police to the Crown Prosecution Service for charge be up 130 % . the number of case charge be up more than 90 % , and the number of case receive in the Crown court be up by more than 120 % . much have be achieve , but she be right to highlight that there be always more that we can and should do in this important space . to tackle violence against woman and girl , we need a criminal justice system that work . part of that be have law that be up to date to deal with the issue that woman face today . I have the pleasure of work with my right hon . friend the Minister on amendment to the Online Safety Bill that will make it a criminal offence to post intimate image online without consent , but he , I and other know that there be still gap in the law when it come to the making of those image . will he give we an indication of when the Government intend to bring forward further legislation , not only to deal with that , but to keep online safety under constant review ? it have be a pleasure to work with my right hon . friend on those amendment to the Online Safety Bill , which return to the Commons today . she be right to highlight the rapidly change environment that we be legislate for and the need therefore to keep thing under constant review . although she tempt I , I shall resist the temptation to speculate on a forthcoming king ' s Speech or any future legislative announcement . what I will say , which I hope will give she some reassurance , be that we have be clear that , as soon as legislative time can be find , the Government be commit to implement the full package of measure in the Law Commission report . prison : Wakefield whether he have make a recent assessment of the performance of prison in Wakefield constituency . the most recent annual prison performance rating for 2022 - 23 be publish in July . his Majesty ' s Prison and Young Offender Institution New Hall be rate a 2 , which be a matter of concern . HMP Wakefield be rate a 4 , or outstanding . his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Prisons inspect HMP Wakefield last year and have several concern , include many that remain unaddresse since its previous visit . those concern include infrastructure that be in such a poor condition that it need investment , insufficient healthcare staff , a lack of mental health intervention and too few activity place . the prison leadership and staff continue to do the right thing and should be praise , but when will the Minister play his part and get our prison back on track ? the hon . Gentleman be right to talk about the inspectorate of prison report , which be a very important part of our system and help to hold the Prison Service and we to account . in the case of Wakefield , as he mention , it be judge a 3 , which be reasonably good , for safety , for respect and for rehabilitation and release planning . there be more to do on purposeful activity , which I readily accept be a theme we have see in a number of report from different prison over time , particularly since covid . the inspector also mention the strong leadership at the prison and that the prison be settle . we need to continue to make progress , but I join the hon . gentleman in play tribute to the leadership at that prison and throughout our Prison Service , and to all the brilliant staff who make it what it be . Criminal Courts : Backlog what step his Department be take to reduce the backlog of criminal court case . my hon . friend raise an important point , and we remain committed to work with our partner across the criminal justice system to try to ensure that court process be as efficient as possible . we have introduce a raft of measure to achieve that aim , include allow court for a third year in a row to sit for an unlimited number of day , with extended use of 24 Nightingale courtroom . in addition , we have open two permanent super - courtroom in Manchester and Loughborough and be recruit an additional 1 , 000 judge across all jurisdiction . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that reply . in Suffolk , the backlog of criminal court case remain stubbornly high , which be not only deny victim justice , but place a huge burden on the police and cost the local taxpayer a fortune . work with Suffolk ' s police and crime commissioner Tim Passmore , can my hon . friend produce a comprehensive and bespoke plan that first clear the backlog , and then set out a long - term strategy for the efficient functioning of the court in the county ? I can reassure my hon . friend that in Suffolk the disposal to March 2023 be up by 23 % on the previous quarter , while the outstanding case load slightly reduce in the same period . that reflect the hard work that be do with our partner to ensure that we get through the case load as fast as possible . we continue to work with the judiciary to identify how we can get the high workload move more smoothly . across the Department , and work with our partner , the Crown court improvement group continue to look at good practice and the local criminal justice board will always look at good practice across the country to see what we can do to ensure that his area continue to perform . be the Minister aware that the criminal court be full of case relate to joint enterprise , a terrible miscarriage of justice ? will he and the Justice team promise to meet I and the campaign group JENGbA — Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association — to see whether we can clear the justice system of the many people who should never have be in the court ? the hon . Gentleman have campaign on that issue for some time , and I have meet his colleague , the hon . member for Edmonton ( Kate Osamor ) , to discuss it . the data collection do not support the identification of case relate to joint enterprise , but I understand that the Crown Prosecution be now do an exercise on well datum collection to see whether the issue that he continue to raise , quite rightly , be bear out by the datum , and we can see what action we might take to address any injustice . I call the shadow Minister . as the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) point out , chaos in our court continue . now , 500 security guard have vote for strike action after a pay offer worth just 38p an hour above the minimum wage . Peter Slator , chairman of OCS , which employ the guard , say in his annual review : " this be an exceptional year where our colleague go above and beyond to deliver reliable , high - quality service for our customer around the world in the most challenging circumstance . the reliability and resilience of our frontline colleague during the pandemic have be exceptional . " I be sure the Minister will agree that the Government should pay Mr Slator ' s company enough for he to deliver fair pay . will he intervene to stop further chaos in our court ? our court be not in chaos . [ interruption . ] I be sure that if the hon . Gentleman take the time to talk to all partner across the criminal justice system , they would bear that out . all element of the criminal justice system , in whatever role they play , continue to ensure that it work smoothly . the pay award be a matter for the private sector employer ; I will not intervene . discussion with Scottish Government what recent discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on justice . I be pleased to say that the inaugural meeting of the inter - ministerial group on justice be take place this afternoon , chair by Lord Bellamy and attend by the Scottish Government Cabinet Secretary for Justice , Angela Constance MSP , as well the Counsel General for Wales , Mick Antoniw MS . that new forum have be establish by an agreement between the four nation of the UK . it have discuss justice issue of mutual interest . I rise as a convinced devolutionist . in fact , I think I be the only member of this place whose signature be on the claim of Right for Scotland . as and when a new law be agree in Edinburgh or Cardiff , say , what mechanism be in place to ensure that any such new law will not disrupt either England or other part of the United Kingdom ? the hon . Gentleman raise a good point . we have more recently see the Scottish Government attempt to railroad the rest of the UK on gender recognition . it be well when our legislature work in tandem for the benefit of all party , not when Scotland try to disrupt other part of the United Kingdom with ill - think out legislation . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Government will amend the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 this afternoon . that 50 - year - old piece of legislation control the shape of Scotland ' s criminal justice system to punish drug addiction with the full force of the law rather than treat user , in health setting , as addict with health condition . what conversation have the Minister have with Cabinet colleague in the Scottish Government on introduce a safe drug consumption room pilot in Glasgow ? I be not sure , base on recent report , that that particular pilot be work well . I will happily ask colleague to see whether that pilot be work as the hon . Gentleman say it be , but that be not what the newspaper be report . the UK Government ' s response to it be something for the inter - ministerial group , which be meet this afternoon . I be a bit confused by the Minister ' s response . there currently be no pilot in Glasgow , but perhaps there have be some positive discussion between the Scottish Government and the Government here . give that there be 100 drug consumption room in more than 60 city across the world , support by mountain of evidence from NGOs , civil society group and drug activist , alongside the Lord Advocate ' s new policy not to prosecute drug user for possession offence commit within a pilot safe drug consumption facility , can the Minister give an iron - clothe commitment that the Government will not block this life - save health measure ? how that legislation be deal with be a matter for other colleague , but I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that , if treat drug taking as a health issue be work as he suggest it be , we will learn from that and discuss it with our colleague in the NHS . the broad principle of it be a health issue be be deal with by the NHS and the Health Secretary . in term of legislation , that be a matter for Cabinet colleague . Prison Estate what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of the prison estate for housing prisoner . we be build 20 , 000 modern prison place to help rehabilitate prisoner , cut crime and protect the public , and we continue to invest in prison maintenance , so that exist place remain in use and safe . the Minister ' s answer be very interesting because , let ' s face it , our prison have be run down for 13 year . many be so old that they be build before RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — be even a twinkle in somebody ' s bank account . if we read the inspection report , as I have , it be a list of woe . they be draughty , damp , infest , terribly overcrowded and woefully understaffed — hardly likely to enable rehabilitation . it be our community that endure the consequence , with at least 37 % of prison leaver reoffende within 18 month . it be simply not good enough , be it ? we continue to upgrade the prison estate . as I say , we be invest in 20 , 000 new place — the big expansion in the secure estate since the victorian era . at the same time , we have be take out some of our most overcrowded and unsuitable prison . in the last financial year , we take out 1 , 900 place , and we be invest £ 168 million in custodial maintenance for 2023 - 24 and 2024 - 25 . the hon . Lady mention reoffende . there be no good level of reoffende but zero , but I be pleased to be able to report good progress on reoffende , which have be come down as a result of more ex - offender get into employment , few of they be homeless and more be able to get suitable , good treatment for addiction . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the Justice Committee be propose to hold an inquiry into future prison population and estate capacity , and I look forward to the Minister give evidence to we about that . he will know that that be prompt in part by concern that overall overcrowding in the adult male estate be some 23 % , and it be much bad in many of the old local prison . while he be right to draw attention to the Government ' s new prison building programme , even if that be all complete on time , there would , accord to figure we have see , be a shortfall in March 2025 of about 2 , 300 place as against anticipated demand . what be go to be do to deal with that ? should we have a proper conversation with the public about what be a reasonable expectation of what can be do in prison , what be the good use of prison and who should be there ? on my hon . friend ' s last point , of course we must constantly be have an intelligent , constructive public debate about these matter . on the question of capacity , projection change , and there be many complex factor at play . I look forward , as ever , to be scrutinise by his Committee on that point . it be important to note that crowd — double up in cell — have for a very long time be a feature of our prison system . crowd overall be 2 , 000 few than it be when we come into government in 2010 . Foreign National Offenders what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reduce the number of foreign national offender in the prison system . between January 2019 and December 2022 , we remove 13 , 851 foreign national offender from the country . as my hon . friend rightly suggest , that be all about close work with colleague , include in the Home Office . we have all see the story of convict foreign criminal be pull off plane at the last minute . the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 be bring in to improve the process of return criminal — to speed up that process and increase the window for removal of foreign national offender from prison under the early removal scheme . could my right hon . friend comment on how that scheme be work , how he expect it to affect the number , and how he expect the process to be speed up ? as my hon . friend mention , under the Nationality and Borders Act , we expand the FNO early removal scheme window from nine month to 12 month , allow for early removal . we be work closely with the Home Office on that . in May , we also agree a landmark new deal with Albania , and we be work to negotiate new prisoner transfer agreement with EU member state and other country . I thank the Minister very much for that response . it have be report that the proportion of Northern Ireland ' s total jail population who hail from outside the United Kingdom and Ireland be disproportionately high — the figure indicate that it be between 7 % and 9 % per year . have the Minister have an opportunity to assess that with the Department of Justice back home ? as the hon . Gentleman know , give the way we be organise , we do not cover the Northern Ireland Prison Service . however , it be very important that we stay in close touch and , although I have not have that specific conversation recently with colleague in Northern Ireland , there will no doubt be opportunity in the future . read Gaol what progress he have make on the sale of Reading Gaol . the sale of Reading Prison be proceed and , bar any unexpected complication , completion be expect later this autumn . I thank the Minister for his answer , and for meet I and the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) recently to discuss this matter . read Gaol be a hugely important historic building , and nearly 13 , 000 people across Berkshire have now sign a petition ask the Government to work with I and the local art community to turn the gaol into an art hub . it have take the Government a long time to discuss the propose sale with their preferred bidder and no progress — or slow progress — appear to be be make . will the Minister now reconsider the Government ' s approach and work with I , read Borough Council and the local art community to save this wonderful building ? the sale be progress . of course , any propose development would be subject to approval from read Borough Council ' s planning department , and the usual due diligence requirement and so on will apply . we quite often throw around the term " doughty campaigner " in this Chamber , but I can certainly say that the hon . Gentleman and my right hon . friend the Member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , his neighbour , have be incredibly assiduous in their attention to this matter on behalf of their constituent . in turn , I commit to he that we will absolutely stay in touch . sentencing : Offender Attendance what step his Department be take to help ensure that offender attend their sentencing . it be right that those convict of a crime face up to its consequence by be in court when they be sentence . on 30 August , the Lord Chancellor announce his intention to legislate as soon as parliamentary time allow to enable judge to order an offender to attend court for sentencing , make it clear in legislation that reasonable force can be use to compel attendance and that refusal to comply with a judge ' s order will cause the offender to face up to two year in custody . in 2014 , Colin Ash - Smith be convict of murder 16 - year - old Claire Tiltman in my constituency of Dartford . his final insult to she be to refuse to attend the sentencing hearing , so I welcome the propose change to compel defendant to face up to the consequence of their action . however , can the Minister confirm that there will be an opportunity for judge to hear representation from the prosecution , defence , and security staff before such action be take ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , and I hope he will allow I this opportunity to express my sympathy to the friend and family of Claire Tiltman , who live in his constituency and , in 1993 , be tragically murder . I be glad to see her murderer bring to justice after so many year . Colin Ash - Smith , like Lucy Letby , be cowardly for not attend the sentencing hearing to face up to his appalling crime . each case be different , so it be important that the court and the judge have discretion in how to make an attendance order , and in reach that decision — although we be work through the detail — we would expect the court to consider the full circumstance of each individual case , include any representation make by the prosecution or the defence in that context . if we want offender to attend their sentencing , it do rather help if the court be open . Harrow Crown court be close two and a half week ago because of the discovery of crumble concrete — RAAC — with no indication as yet of any timescale for it to be reopen . its closure will inevitably exacerbate the backlog of criminal case in the London area and prevent victim of crime from see justice . could the Minister provide quickly an update on the progress at get Harrow Crown court modernise , fully repair and open again ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , particularly for the dexterity with which he get Harrow Crown court in . he be right to highlight that case . I understand that remedial work be under way and that case list there have be transfer to other London court to ensure they still continue to be hear . I understand from the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , that the indicative timescale to complete the work be six to nine month . I welcome the shadow Minister , Kevin Brennan . it will be quieter on the Back Benches but no doubt he will make up for it on the Front Bench . thank you , Mr Speaker . I suspect the Minister might anticipate what I be go to ask he because I be begin to think the Department should be rename the Department for Justice delay . labour propose that we change the law on attend sentence back in 2022 , and just last month the Leader of the Opposition say that we be prepared to amend the relevant legislation if there be no action , so why be it take so long for the Government to intervene on behalf of victim and their family ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman and may I take the opportunity to welcome he to his place ? I suspect there will occasionally be to - and - fro across this Chamber , but I hope there will also be opportunity , where we be in agreement , to work constructively together . we have be clear on our intention to bring forward appropriate legislation to reinforce the exist power the judiciary have in this respect , but it be important that we get this right and that it build in that degree of judicial discretion , because there may be some circumstance where victim would not wish to see the offender in court for sentencing because it would be deeply distressing or deeply disruptive . so it be important that we get this right . we be determined to do that , but we will work through the detail to make sure it be robust and effective . Prison Staff Vacancies : England and Wales how many staff vacancy there be in prison in England and Wales . we have recently see indication of an improve national staffing picture in prison , with an increase of 700 full - time equivalent band 3 to 5 prison officer and youth justice worker in the year to June 2023 . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for that answer , but the damn report into HMP Woodhill , just adjacent to my constituency , be clear that staff shortage be a huge factor in the serious issue that prison face . it be equally well know that HMP Spring Hill and HMP Grendon in my constituency have face recruitment challenge . in that light , if we can not staff the prison that we do have , surely it be unworkable to carry on with my right hon . friend ' s totally unwanted plan to build a new mega - prison in my constituency and that planning appeal should be withdraw . I be grateful to my hon . friend , who take a close interest in these matter , and rightly so , particularly on behalf of his constituent who be prison officer and other staff in and around his constituency . I can assure he we be work urgently to address the finding and the urgent notification at Woodhill . I think we will come on to that a little later in question from hon . friend . the Lord Chancellor will , as ever , be publish an action plan by the end of the month . we also have active recruitment campaign in place for Grendon and Spring Hill and be seek to increase number by incentivise recruitment . Magistrates Courts what recent assessment he have make of condition at magistrate court . I recognise that there continue to be work to be do to improve condition in some magistrate court for the user , and that be why we have boost the capital investment programme to £ 220 million over the next two year to March 2025 to improve the quality and enhance the resilience of the court and tribunal estate , allow we to plan major project much more in advance and with certainty . the improvement will ensure that those on the frontline of the justice system will benefit from building that be more accessible and sustainable . we speak of access to justice mean the availability of legal advice and representation but , for too many old and disabled people , physical access to justice through the magistrate court in particular be well - nigh impossible because the building themselves be not fit for purpose . actually , " not fit for purpose " be the term use to describe the magistrate court in the Secretary of State ' s constituency by the former police and crime commissioner . do we not need more swift action to remedy the problem than the Minister have outline ? I take quite a bit of time to read the report from the Magistrates Association on inaccessible court to ensure that , where we can make reasonable adjustment , we make they , and that where we need to make more substantial investment to make the court more accessible , particularly to make they compliant with the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 , we do so and those work be prioritise . we continue to work on new court , as in Blackpool and the City of London , to ensure that the estate be modernise and we have court that be accessible and fit for purpose . the point be well make and it be in hand . magistrate : train what training be provide to magistrate to help ensure impartial decision making . to preserve the independence of the judiciary , the Lord Chief Justice have a statutory responsibility for the training of the judiciary under the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 , and that include magistrate and their legal adviser . magistrate , and the legal adviser who support they in court , must complete induction training before hear case and , once magistrate be sit , continuation training be provide on regular cycle . impartial decision making be weave throughout all the material . I thank the Minister for his answer . Chris Pincher and I have be work very closely to ensure that the police act strongly and swiftly in Shenstone near Lichfield over constant demonstration at an israeli company that supply arm to the british armed force . two people go to trial at a magistrate court in Walsall and they be acquit . it be report — we do not know for sure because it be not a court of record — that the judge say " on the principle of proportionality … their action be proportionate in comparison to the crime against humanity which they be act to stop " by the Israelis . I think that , if it be true , be outrageous . what can be do within the judicial system to ensure that that sort of thing do not happen , if indeed it do ? my hon . friend raise an important point about the independence of the judiciary . we have to be careful that we do not rely on report by a third party , perhaps with a vested interest , because these case be not report officially . however , if he wish to discuss any point of law that may lead to an appeal from the prosecute authority , he can do so and I be happy to work with he and guide he on how that may be take up with the Attorney General . in term of any complaint about the behaviour of the judiciary , there be a clearly define process that I be happy to discuss with my hon . friend after today ' s session . Probation Service what step he be take to increase recruitment to the probation service . at 30 June just over 20 , 000 people be work in the probation service — an increase of just over 2 , 300 , or 13 % , compare with 30 June the previous year . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . two horrific case — those of Jordan McSweeney and Damien Bendall — show how vital it be to have effective supervision of recently release offender . what lesson have be learn from those two case , and will the Minister provide an update on the action be take to address problem in the probation service cause by high vacancy rate and consequentially unmanageably large case load for probation staff ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend and again I express my sincere condolence to the family of Zara Aleena , Terri Harris , Connie Gent and John and Lacey Bennett . we have increase probation staff in the London area by 4 . 5 % over the last year , and that include 270 trainee probation officer in post . the service have accept all the chief inspector ' s recommendation in respect of the two appalling case that my right hon . friend mention , and it be implement robust action plan , especially with regard to improve risk assessment . female offender : short Sentences whether he have hold recent discussion with the Welsh Government on develop community - base alternative to imprisonment for female offender serve short sentence . minister engage regularly with colleague in the Welsh Government , include discussion on female offender and alternative to custody . both government work closely on deliver the " Women ' s justice blueprint for Wales " on female offending . short sentence for woman often do more harm than good , reinforce trauma and lead to far reoffende . in 2022 , two third of sentence for immediate custody for woman be for less than 12 month . it be anticipate that 1 , 000 more woman will be in prison by 2026 . how do the Secretary of State justify the grow female prison population and the use of short sentence , give Wales ' s ambition to divert as many woman as possible away from prison ? the woman ' s population in prison have come down , and sentencing be a matter for the judiciary and not something in which the Government intervene . it be important that suitable alternative to custody be available , and I join the right hon . Lady in pay tribute to the people run woman ' s centre , for example , which do a fantastic job specifically for woman , as well as to the broad set of alternative and community sentence option . it be important that we make sure we continue to work on those , include work together with the Welsh Government . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . I have be ask to reply on behalf of the Lord Chancellor , who have be in Riga attend a Council of Europe meeting , where a political declaration be sign on support for the ukrainian justice system . he be sorry not to be here for these oral question , and he have ask I to convey to the House his thank to the Metropolitan police for their quick work in find and return Daniel Khalife to custody . the independent investigation that the Lord Chancellor commission must now get to the bottom of this serious breach . since the last oral question , the Government have also announce that we will make whole life order the expectation in sentencing where they can be apply . we have also outline plan to order the bad offender to attend court for their sentencing hearing . we want to ensure that the bad offender receive their sentence in the full glare of the courtroom , and that victim have the opportunity to set out the impact the crime have have on they . with Government spending for housing legal aid fall in the past decade from £ 44 million to £ 20 million and the spending for disrepair case fall from nearly £ 4 million to just over £ 1 million , it be not a moment too soon that the Government have begin to restore some legal aid with the housing loss prevention advice service . due to the Government ' s disastrous legal aid , sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 , many housing legal aid provider shut up shop , leave 42 % of the population of England and Wales without a single provider in their local authority area and 84 % with no access to welfare legal aid . what recent analysis have the Minister make of legal aid desert , and what step be he take to remedy the situation ? we be put more money into legal aid and criminal legal aid follow the independent review . specifically on housing , which the hon . Lady mention , we be inject an additional £ 10 million from 1 August . what conversation have my right hon . Friend have across government to make sure that the sentencing for those convict of dangerous cycling be equalise with the sentencing guideline for those convict of dangerous driving ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend , who I know take a keen interest in this issue . the safety of our road be a key objective for the Government , and protect all road user be a priority . like all road user , cyclist have a duty to behave in a safe and responsible manner . while law be in place for cyclist , they be old and it can be difficult to successfully prosecute offence . that be why Department for Transport colleague be consider bring forward legislation to introduce new offence concern dangerous cycling to tackle those rare instance where victim have be kill or seriously injure by irresponsible cycling behaviour . I welcome the new shadow Secretary of State to her post . I thank the Minister for the update about Daniel Khalife , but the fact remain that HMP Wandsworth have be a know problem for the good part of a decade , with a litany of failure include overcrowding , staffing and security issue . Khalife be not even the first escape from Wandsworth ; there be an incident in 2019 , which the chief inspector of prison say be the result of a " serious security breach " . why , after so many warning about Wandsworth , have the Government fail to act ? we take these matter extremely seriously . the independent investigation will of course look at the question the hon . Lady raise specifically about the 2019 incident to ensure that lesson be learn . if we look at the independent review of progress from his Majesty ' s inspectorate , we see that progress have be make in Wandsworth , particularly on staffing , which I know have rightly be a matter of considerable public interest . there have be an increase of some 25 % in staffing specifically at Wandsworth since 2017 . year of warning and year of inaction — I be afraid that rather sum the Government up . on Sunday , the Justice Secretary tell we that 40 prisoner have be move from Wandsworth , claim that that be out of " an abundance of caution " . will the Minister tell we how many other prisoner will have to be move across the whole prison estate as a result of this escape ? what the public want to see be not an abundance of caution after the fact of an escape but an abundance of certainty that the prison estate be secure . be it ? it be . the hon . Lady would not expect I to get into a running commentary on transfer arrangement when we be talk about security . I want to reassure she , the House and the public that escape from prison be very rare , and much rarer now than they use to be . the number of escape from prison in the last 13 year — since 2010 — be considerably low than it be in the 13 year before . to encourage active travel , people need to feel confident use our road , yet the court can impose only the same penalty on multiple offender as on a first - timer . will my right hon . friend consider the introduction of escalate penalty for repeat traffic offence ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the issue of traffic offence . as part of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , there be an increase in the minimum disqualification period for the serious offence of cause death by careless driving when under the influence of drink or drug from two year to five year , and an increase from three to six year if there be a repeat offence within three year . the Department for Transport be also currently consider a broad call for evidence on motor offence . I hope that the very recent report from the all - party parliamentary group for cycling and walking will be useful to it in that respect . I will ensure that colleague at the DFT be aware of her interest in this issue . as the absurdity of terrorist offender in low category prison play out , be it not time to free up space by remove Julian Assange from Belmarsh maximum security facility , where he have languish since April 2019 , guilty only of a minor bail breach , when his real offence be expose war crime ? regardless of his place of incarceration , will the Minister ensure that he be able to attend proceeding in person , which he have be deny since January 2021 , give all the comment about people be at court ? I think the hon . Gentleman have achieve his objective : to get something on the record . I will not comment on ongoing case , but , speak more generally , access to justice be at the heart of what we do . I have a constituent who suffer life - change injury as a result of an assault eight year ago — she be not on her own , on that basis — but she be award only £ 150 from a compensation order during the criminal case and offer £ 1 , 000 from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority . will the Minister look at amend the Victims and Prisoners Bill so that victim can be give adequate care , compensation from offender and support through the court and , importantly , through the CICA ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend , who throughout her time in the House , and particularly while Home Secretary , have always take a keen interest in support victim of crime . it be vital that victim get the compensation they be entitle to , be that from the offender or the criminal injury compensation scheme , which pay out more than £ 173 million in 2022 - 23 . the making of a compensation order be a matter for the court , and there be no limit on the amount that a court can order an offender to pay . in respect of the criminal injury compensation scheme , his Majesty ' s Government be consult on change follow the report of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse alongside previous consultation . it be important that that can be consider fully , but that will be post - passage of the Victims and Prisoners Bill . one of my constituent tell I that they be at risk of lose their home because of how long they have have to wait for a benefit decision appeal . will the Minister outline what step his Department be take to reduce the current 33 - week waiting time for benefit decision appeal to be hear ? across the whole tribunal process , the team will constantly monitor who be perform and who be not , and will share good practice . if the hon . Lady would like to write to I with the detail of a particular case , I can investigate the particular cause of delay . Parliament pass a law in 2015 that offender convict of a second or subsequent knife offence should go to prison , yet in the year to March , 16 , 000 such offender — 37 % of the total — dodge a jail sentence altogether . that be the high total since the law be introduce . will Ministers ensure that the court now hand down the sentence legislate for in this House eight year ago ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the scourge of knife crime and the need for tough sentence . although sentence in an individual case be a matter for our independent judiciary , which be able to consider the specific circumstance of individual case , in legislate on this issue Parliament be clear about its seriousness . that be reflect in average sentence for all type of knife crime , which be up from 6 . 5 month in 2010 to 8 . 1 month in 2020 . in addition , 87 % of those commit repeat offence be give a custodial sentence , include suspend sentence , which be a custodial sentence . I have a number of constituent whose asylum appeal be allow by court and tribunal service , but have now be thrust into limbo while the case go back to the Home Office for approval . what conversation have Ministers have with their Home Office colleague on clear the backlog that be prevent my constituent from get on with their life ? I be always happy to look at individual case to see if there be specific issue cause a delay . broadly speak , I work with colleague at the Home Office and the Solicitor General ' s office to see what we can do to ensure that any delay in the process be smooth out , so that people do not have to wait for their day in court . what review , if any , have the Department carry out to ensure that when court extend bail , they ensure that the police be deal with their investigation diligently and expeditiously ? my hon . friend raise an important point for her constituent . I must stress that the independence of the judiciary be fundamental to the rule of law and the running of the justice system . therefore , the Department have not and will not conduct a review into how the judiciary undertake its function in individual case . however , I can reassure she that the judiciary ensure that the relevant agency that it work with undertake their function smoothly and effectively . be it not the case that last - minute cancellation in magistrate court be largely cause by the inability to recruit and retain legal adviser , who be pay a lot less than other Government legal adviser ? what step will the Minister take to ensure an increase in wage and well term and condition for those legal adviser ? will he sit down with the PCS Union to try to resolve this intolerable situation ? we look carefully at why all case be vacate ; in fact , the big cause of vacation be often the non - availability of prosecution or defence counsel , not of legal executive . may I put it to Ministers that the nine - month wait for grant simple probate be unfair on people try to sell their parent ' home ? I fail to get the probate service to work , and I have a constituent who have write to the Prime Minister . will minister please sort it out ? the time take once all require document be receive be between six and nine week . we always advise that no one should take a decision on the sale of a property until probate be grant , but I can reassure my hon . friend that despite a significant increase in application , the service be recruit and train up more than 100 new caseworker to ensure that it deliver the service that my hon . friend want , as do I . last month the United Nations call for an urgent Government review of sentence of imprisonment for public protection . will the Secretary of State listen to the UN ? can he explain why the number of people with an IPP sentence recall to prison without commit any further offence have soar in recent year ? I can confirm that the Lord Chancellor and I — and we all — be very conscious of the difficulty around IPP sentence , which would not be introduce today . we abolish they , as the hon . Lady know , but there be people in prison who have be recall or not release by the parole board because they have not be consider safe for release . our objective be to help to manage people towards safe release into the community . to that end , our recently announce action plan be central . the rehabilitation of offender be so important in reduce the chance of they commit crime once release from prison , especially if they can get back into work . could the Minister outline any scheme that help to give offender the skill they need , and how they can access company that be willing to give they a second chance in life ? my hon friend be so right . in topical question , I do not have the time to start to unpack all the different thing I would like say , so I will not . suffice it to say that brilliant company be provide training opportunity . I have write to the Secretary of State about the tragic case of my young constituent Gregg McGuire . he have agree to meet with I and I be very grateful . do his Department have any plan to reassess the current rule which mean that victim ' family be unable to appeal sentence for those convict of cause death by careless driving ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady . I know she be meet the Secretary of State to discuss this matter and I do not want to pre - empt that meeting . if she wish , I be very happy to join that meeting with she , or even to meet she separately to talk about this issue if she feel that would be helpful . Mr Speaker , you will not believe this , but it be almost six month since I finally secure a meeting with the Justice Minister and the Health Minister , after six cancellation , about what happen to section 4 of my civil Partnerships , Marriages and death ( Registration etc ) Act 2019 , which empower coroner to investigate stillbirth . I be assure that the law , pass by this House in February 2019 and with a consultation that close in June 2019 , would be publish imminently and progress would be make , but nothing have happen . be it ever go to happen ? yes , it will . both the Health Minister and I be push this as fast as we possibly can . the scale of the illegal drug problem in prison be such that five year ago the Government introduce a programme that cost £ 100 million . have the problem get bad or improve in the time since ? we be see progress . it be a combined approach of drug recovery wing and incentivise subsidise free living , and ensure that security be able to stop drug get into prison through thing like x - ray body scanner , which we have deploy in many prison . it be perhaps unfortunate that many member of the public and much of the medium only take an interest in prison when there be an escape , but that is , thankfully , very rare . will my right hon . friend join I in hope to now see a calm and measure public debate about the role of prison , not least work out way to improve rehabilitation , which ultimately protect the public . my hon . friend be exactly right . he have a long history with this issue since before he reach this House . it be , ultimately , all about rehabilitation , reduce reoffende and help to keep the public safe . over 10 , 000 woman have sign a public letter to the Prime Minister ask he to take action against the escalate campaign of threat and intimidation against woman who stand up for woman ' s right . many of these woman be particularly concerned that the institution suppose to protect they be fail to do so , include the criminal justice system . will the Minister with responsibility for victim be good enough to meet I and representative of those who organise the letter to discuss this important issue ? I be always happy to meet the hon . and learn Lady . the reputation of our justice system depend on the independence , integrity and professionalism of our judge . at the end of this month , the right hon . Lord Burnett of Maldon will retire as Lord Chief Justice , to be succeed by Dame Susan Carr , who will be the first ever female Lord Chief Justice . will the Minister place on the record in this House his appreciation , and all our appreciation , of Lord Burnett for the exceptional leadership he have show to the judiciary throughout his term in office ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . I know the Lord Chief Justice and I be very happy , on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government and all those on the Government Front Bench , to do exactly as my hon . Friend say : to pay tribute to Lord Burnett ' s exemplary period as Lord Chief Justice . I would like to pay tribute to the campaigner who challenge joint enterprise . as a result , the Crown Prosecution Service have now commit to monitor who be prosecute . I welcome the report at the end of this month , but will the Minister commit to an audit of all joint enterprise conviction , particularly as more black people be disproportionately impact ? I can commit to wait until we have see what the work be do by the CPS uncover . once we have datum , we can then have a rational discussion on the next step . be the Minister aware of the prevalence of the unfounded and unscientific concept of parental alienation within our family court ? it be cause suffering and , in some case , violence against woman and girl . what step be the Department take to ensure that the court recognise the harm of this discredit concept ? the Department be well aware of the concern , which be why the matter be currently under review . the result of that review , include publication of all the datum and research behind the outcome , will be publish later this year . Offshore Wind Contracts ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero if she will make a statement on the implication for offshore wind of contract for difference allocation round 5 . the first annual contract for difference auction — the first that we have ever do — be complete last week and deliver a total of 3 . 7 GW of renewable electricity , with contract go to a record number of project . the auction deliver significant quantity of new solar and onshore wind generation , as well as support 11 new tidal stream project and , for the first time , geothermal project . it be a competitive auction , set against a backdrop of highly challenging macroeconomic condition that have impact the sector globally . give that this be our first annual round , it be to be expect that it would have a low capacity than the previous biennial round , and , because last year ' s round be the first for three year , a high annual element than that record round . the Government remain committed to offshore and float offshore wind project , and this round provide valuable learning for subsequent auction . work have already start on allocation round 6 , incorporate the result of the recent round , and we look forward to a strong pipeline of technology be able to participate . the move to annual auction mean that allocation round 6 will open in just six month ' time , in March 2024 , which mean that there could be minimal or indeed no delay in the deployment of new capacity through that round . the Government also remain committed to our target of decarbonise the power system by 2035 and our ambition for 50 GW of offshore wind , include up to 5 GW of float offshore wind . our trajectory for meet these aim , as well as our legally bind carbon budget 6 target , be not linear . the outcome for one technology in one auction do not prevent we from reach those goal . what a load of nonsense . no wonder the Secretary of State be in hiding . this auction be an energy security disaster for Britain , and an act of economic self - harm on the part of the Government . no new offshore wind project mean that family ' energy bill will £ 2 billion high and our energy security will be weaken . bad of all , this be totally avoidable . minister be warn again and again about the impact of high inflation — in a letter from renewableuk in March , and again in July — and offshore wind be so much cheap than gas that they could have raise the price in the auction and it would still have save billion of pound for family , but they refuse to listen . first , will the Minister tell we why the Government ignore those repeat warning ? secondly , he say on Friday that every country be in the same boat , but that be just wrong . Ireland listen to industry and adjust its price , and have a successful auction in March 2023 . why do the Government not learn that lesson ? thirdly , be not the terrible truth that this episode reveal a much deep flaw in their approach ? for month after month this summer , they claim that the answer to our energy crisis be more oil and gas , and this be the result . we will now be more dependent on expensive , insecure fossil fuel . we will be more expose to the whim of petrostate and dictator . every wind farm that we fail to build make we more expose to dictator like Putin , and he know it . bill higher , security bad , job lose , climate failure — the Government have trash offshore wind , the crown jewel of our energy system , raise bill , just as they trash onshore wind by ban it , raise bill , and just as they trash home insulation , raise bill . we have see 13 year of fail energy policy , and all this fiasco show be that the Conservatives be , quite simply , a party unfit to govern . I be pleased to see the other day that the rumour of the right hon . Gentleman no long be in his position be not true . it be perhaps understandable in that context that he be so passionate about this highly successful round that have see 3 . 7 GW on an annualise basis . I think that be a record round . he be a member of the previous Labour Government who leave this country with 6 . 7 % of its electricity come from renewable . in the first quarter of this year , 48 % of our electricity be from renewable . it be this Government , with our contract for difference system , who transform the economic of offshore wind . we have 77 GW of offshore wind in the pipeline — more than enough . we have 7 . 5 — [ interruption . ] the right hon . Gentleman understandably , give the weakness of his argument , want to heckle at all time , know how easy it be to dismantle they . he ask I where that capacity be , and I can tell he that 7 . 5 GW be currently under construction . as ever , the right hon . Gentleman fail to be on the side of consumer . we move to an annualise auction precisely to ensure that we could learn the lesson from each round , add they to our industry insight and ensure that we could move forward . the project take multiple year to be develop , and none of they have disappear . I predict that , move on from the triumph of 3 . 7 GW of renewable , which come through successfully on Friday , allocation round 6 will be more successful still . we will continue to build our reputation as the country that have cut emission more than any other major economy and that have transform our electricity generation . he mention insulation — how he have the gall , I do not know . we have move from 14 % of home be properly insulate when he leave power to over 50 % by the end of this year . I thank the Minister for his engagement with this process , particularly with the new technology of float offshore wind . three float offshore wind project be due to bid in allocation round 5 but none do , due to the low administrative strike price . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the Celtic sea , I have repeatedly be tell that these project be part of our future energy supply . can he outline what step he be take to ensure that these project will float in allocation round 6 and to give confidence to developer in the region ? I thank my hon . friend , who be an absolute champion of float wind and the economic opportunity it offer for her area and the rest of the UK . I be delighted to speak to her last week and meet she yesterday , and I pay tribute to her effort . we have the large float wind pipeline in the world , base on confirm seabed exclusivity arrangement . we have around 25 GW already identify , include through the ScotWind lease round and innovation and targeted oil and gas — INTOG — process . as she , as a great champion , know , the Crown Estate be move forward with its leasing round 5 for up to 4 GW of capacity in the Celtic sea this year . we have be the world leader on float energy and we be go to stay the world leader . thank to the effort of my hon . friend , I know that we will have support across the House . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the Minister fail to point out that 3 . 7 GW be scarcely half of what be achieve in auction round 5 . he also fail to mention , when he be herald onshore wind , that 90 % of that will be find in Scotland . since 2014 , the four auction round have yield 1 GW , 2 . 5 GW , 5 GW and 7 GW , so a nil return be an utter catastrophe . the critical need for massive investment in offshore be patently obvious for bill and for the climate , yet this ambition have be thwart by an incompetent previous Secretary of State and by the Treasury , which know the price of everything and the value of nothing . can the Minister assure we that the Department will get round the table with industry as a matter of urgency to try to repair this damage ? industry need a strike price that reflect the not - mutually - exclusive goal of low bill , net zero , and job and investment in Scotland and elsewhere . can he confirm whether a recovery group for auction round 5 will be convene by he or the Secretary of State to try to get this catastrophe resolve ? and where be she ? the hon . Gentleman and his party never fail to trash this country — [ interruption . ] he can heckle all he wish . I will be meet industry representative this afternoon and , as I have say , we will be announce in two month ' time the price ceiling for the next round — [ interruption . ] I be get heckle , not least from his Majesty ' s Opposition , who leave we in that parlous situation . we be the world leader in so many of these technology and we be go to continue to be . if the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) be to recognise the need to attract investment to this country and not talk it down , he might find that scottish job would be even strong in the pipeline than they be already . if any , how much of the complete wind capacity still require connection to the national grid ? until wind capacity be construct , it be not normally connect to the grid . that which have not be connect to the grid will need to be connect to the grid . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Energy Security and Net Zero . the boom and bust of this fiasco will inevitably have knock - ons for the supply chain . how concerned be the Minister about that ? also , how concerned be he about project that be build on CfD security but have not invoke the contract and be now literally rake in the windfall of that act ? I do not quite follow the second part of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , but I be happy to write to he on that topic . West Somerset , as the Minister know , be ideal for offshore wind . I be interested to know why people do not bid in this round . what be their reason ? what can the Government do to learn the lesson of this round so that people like my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) can make sure that people be bid in the next round ? we typically set out the key auction parameter in November , and those include the ceiling of what we will pay for particular technology . we do that base on our analysis of supply chain cost , and we also commission external analysis . the most important datum of all come from individual auction round , and it be on that basis that we set the price parameter . the industry warn we , as it do every year , that it want we to pay more . we always have to make a judgment call between make sure that we minimise — [ interruption . ] it would be so much easy to give my answer , Mr Speaker , if the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) would stop — order . I think that , as a man who be always happy to heckle from the Back Benches , the Minister deserve a little bit himself . we set the price , and we immediately learn from each auction . one of the reason for have an annual auction be that we can quickly adjust and , as I say , project can then come into the next round with minimal delay . the wind farm off Brighton have probably become as iconic as the pier itself , but the reality be that the Government ' s failure will delay the construction of more of these beautiful installation around our coast . be this failure not also a failure of the market - base private investment system that this Government be determined to pursue , rather than a publicly own and co - ordinate building programme that can work alongside private investment so that we no long have this failure where nobody bid ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for reveal the true face of where the Labour party be go . we can go back to the day when we have hardly any renewable , and we can allow Great British Energy , or whatever Labour be go to call its creature , to squeeze out private investment and destroy the most successful renewable market in Europe , and to destroy this Government ' s progress on tackle the parlous position leave behind by the right hon . member for Doncaster North and his friend . we will continue to be the world leader in cut emission , but not if we move to the state - run , left - wing obsession of colleague like the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) . offshore wind play , and will continue to play , a key strategic role in enhance energy security , achieve net zero and revitalise coastal community such as Lowestoft . to get back on track , can my right hon . friend confirm that the criterion apply to round 6 will take account of current economic reality , that appropriate fiscal measure be be consider ahead of the autumn statement and that specific focus will be give to enhance local supply chain ? I thank my hon . friend , who have be such a consistent champion not only for the power of renewable to meet our environmental challenge but for the economic benefit that come from they . he be absolutely right that the nature of the CfD system be that it learn from the previous auction round , which be the most real datum of all , and use that learn to inform the next round . that be why I be confident that , just as we have a success with 3 . 7 GW on Friday , AR6 promise to be more successful still . I congratulate the Minister on turn complacency and chutzpah into a new art form . the ineptitude of Tory Ministers mean that this late CfD round see the small auction return since 2015 — a failing that be entirely avoidable . how will he ensure that the UK deliver the 35 GW of new offshore wind capacity that be need in just six year ? why do Ministers yet again fail to heed the warning from industry and expert in advance ? we have to set the parameter base on the good information we have . as I say , one reason for move to an annual round be to allow we quickly to learn the lesson of each round . we do not get the wind on this occasion , which I regret , and we will put the real - world price and learning from that into the next round . that be the system we have , because we be always try to make sure that we get the parameter right so that we balance the need to generate additional green energy with the cost to the taxpayer . understandably , give their carelessness with the public finance and with consumer , the opposition do not seem to care about that . my job be to balance it , ensure that we get the generation , and we have 77 GW in the pipeline . we be in position and on track to meet our ambition , which lead Europe — not that we would know that to listen to the hon . Lady . I thank the Minister for include geothermal project in allocation round 5 , as that be very welcome . however , I echo everything my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) say about the Celtic sea project . what will we do differently in round 6 ? what advice would he give to those in the supply chain , specifically port , that be try to submit application for the FLOWMIS — float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme — funding ? what conversation have he have about grid capacity , to ensure that all of this eventually run smoothly ? as ever , my hon . friend be well - informed . we be work on all those front . FLOWMIS application close just two week ago , and we be work flat out to analyse they . I hope that by the end of the year we will have shortlist to the primary list and those scheme will move forward to due diligence , as we take forward not only our float wind deployment , but the supply chain in the south - west , Wales , Scotland and around the rest of the UK . we be work on all those front and be determined to do that . as she rightly highlight , see our first geothermal project come through the CfD be fantastic , as be the 11 tidal project . I pay tribute to all colleague who have work so hard to promote tidal energy and make sure that we continue to be a world leader in that as well . this be an embarrassment for the Government and show that we be fall far and far behind in the race for green job internationally . we have the low growth in these industry among the eight big economy . should the Government not be focus much more on broaden and increase the capacity of offshore wind , rather than not listen to industry and make fatal error ? if the Labour party be not nationalise or create some state - own behemoth , it want just to hurl money in the direction of business . our judgment be to balance those thing and I be pleased to say that we have be successful ; we have the large offshore wind sector in Europe . this country and this Government , through the CfDs , transform the economic from the situation we inherit after the right hon . member for Doncaster North and his colleague have be in power . deliver on the float offshore wind project in the Celtic sea be vital for our energy security and decarbonisation . do the Minister agree that we now need to bolster confidence in this emerge industry ? there be two thing he can do . do he agree that a successful allocation of FLOWMIS money to the south Wales port in order to get this industry move be vital ? do he also agree that we need to ensure that the Crown Estate ' s lease round at the end of the year be do successfully , but with more than 4 GW of visibility , in order to send a strong market signal to the industry to invest ? my right hon . friend be also someone who , through thick and thin , promote that industry and see the opportunity it offer Wales . he make a special bid for the Welsh port , as I would expect he to do , but he will understand that I can make no comment on that . I entirely agree with he on the importance of the Crown Estate round . suffice it to say that across Government we have be work flat out , with his and other colleague ' support , to support the Crown Estate to ensure that we maximise the opportunity in the Celtic sea . the Government ' s obsession with oil and gas have leave we in this mess . the Department have prioritise new oil and gas licence over support for wind power , which fly in the face of our climate change commitment and our responsibility to UK citizen — our constituent — to keep energy price low . oil and gas will always be more expensive than wind energy . when will the Minister fill the gap of 5 GW of offshore wind that we have now miss out on , which would have save consumer £ 2 billion a year ? I be not talk about the sixth auction round — I be talk about the fifth one , where we have miss out now . the hon . Lady be completely mistaken . we be work flat out both to reduce demand for fossil fuel in this country and to build up our renewable . I would hope she would celebrate the fact that we have the large offshore wind sector in Europe . the Government have long be warn that their focus on CfDs as the primary mechanism for finance new renewable risk undermine investor confidence in infrastructure asset with long lifespan but significant up - front capital cost , such as nuclear and tidal range generation . follow the Government ' s decision to employ a regulated asset base model to support the development of new nuclear , will the Minister now commit to look urgently at the optimum financial model for new tidal range project , which could make a crucial contribution to the future UK energy mix ? the CfD scheme be among the most successful , if not the most successful , of its sort in the world . we always look at way in which we can improve it . we be look at bring in non - price factor as we finesse it , but the Opposition party ' s idea of some state - run enterprise , squeeze out private investment , would destroy the opportunity go forward . we need at least another £ 100 billion to be invest by 2030 and if the Labour party ever do threaten to come into power , it would put all that at risk . on Teesside , we have be promise thousand of job in the offshore wind industry , but investor be get a little nervous as a direct result of government failure to provide the right business environment . what will the Minister do to get the business environment right to deliver the job we have be promise , which be be put in jeopardy by Government failure ? we be get that balance right and we will continue to do so . make sure that we look after the consumer be always my guide light , and we balance that with get the generation we need . we have see company such as SeAH invest in Teesside and Sumitomo look at invest in Scotland — they be get nervous — as the hon . Gentleman decry this and talk both the area and the nation down , he then tell I that investor be get nervous . if he be to champion all the success we have have instead of decry they , he might find that he would give investor even more confidence still . I do not agree with the policy that the Minister pursue . his net zero policy be disastrous and have be costly in term of electricity price and future planning . however , I feel some sympathy for he today . he be be criticise by those who have highlight high energy price for not offer inflated price to the wind industry , which claim that produce wind energy be get cheap but of course want high price . as it be not offer that , it would not bid in the auction . be the real reason for this not that for the first time he have refuse to allow those who bid to walk away from their CfD agreement , to price electricity at whatever price they want and therefore to have inflate profit ? do that not indicate to he that the wind industry know it can not produce electricity cheaply and want the system balance in its favour ? the right hon . Gentleman and I do not see eye to eye on net zero or on the economic benefit of the wind industry . it do offer cost - effectiveness . it have be amazing to see how as it be scale , it have be able to bring the price down . it be not obvious when we go out into the North sea that we would be able to bring the price crash down , yet this country lead the world in do that . if he look at the number , I hope he will find that the whole of this House can agree on one thing : offshore wind be an economic way of produce energy , and one that all of we should support . last week , the think - tank Common Wealth make the critical point : " Reliance on market coordination leave the transition vulnerable to the demand of private capital " . it be abundantly clear that private capital can not deliver what be urgently require to stem the climate crisis . in Wales , the Welsh Government know that , which be why , over the summer , they launch the community - own renewable energy company , Ynni Cymru . do the Minister agree that that be what be require , and what action be he take to address this ? I thank the hon . Lady for pull back the veil on Labour ' s real policy , which be that it hate private capital , it hate private investment and it would destroy the phenomenal success of this country in generate that . [ interruption . ] the Front Benchers can heckle all they like , but that be what their Back Benchers want . that be the policy that threaten the british people and threaten our path to net zero . we must make sure that people such as the hon . Lady never have power in this country . Scottish Renewables have say that the result be a major blow to the renewable sector in Scotland and should serve as an indication that urgent reform be need . Scottish Renewables , not a political party but part of the industry , have also say that these disastrous result be bad for Scotland ' s energy supply chain , which desperately need a steady stream of project to make its own investment in skille up and in new technology . will the Minister acknowledge that his and his Department ' s failure to listen to warning from the industry be hold back Scotland ' s renewable sector ? I thank the hon . and learn Lady for her question . industry always ask to be pay more money . our job be to make the right judgment call on get the balance right . I see in the newspaper yesterday that astronomer have discover a water - cover planet in a far away galaxy . I have to disappoint these excited scientist that , from his answer today , the Minister appear to have get there before they . [ interruption . ] on another planet , yes . seriously though , this setback to the Erebus project in south - west Wales be deeply disappointing . it be the first of its kind in Wales and be suppose to pave the way to a develop industry . I hope the Minister can reassure I that he be take step to make sure that , in ar6 , project such as Erebus be enable to compete successfully and to lead the way for this industry in Wales . I thank the hon . Gentleman , not least for his attempt at a gag . I can tell he that what he say be the whole basis of the system — that it learn from each round . the most real economic datum that we get be from an auction round . move to annual round , there will be ebb and flow as the right balance be seek between get the generation that we require , set against our extremely ambitious deadline , and not pay too much . that be the balance that we strike . we have 3 . 7 GW and I imagine that we will do even well next time . I feel as if I be almost take my life in my hand , but I do want to commend the Minister for one small piece of good news in this round , which be in relation to the development of marine renewable . the success of the auction for tidal stream development illustrate what would be possible for wave power if it be to be give the same opportunity in AR6 . but for tidal stream , do the Minister agree that what be now need be the 1 GW target for deployment ? will he work with I and other people in the House with an interest in this and the marine renewable sector itself to deliver that ahead of ar6 ? may I pay tribute to the right hon . Gentleman ? I meet he in his constituency when I visit the European Marine Energy Centre and see for myself some of the project in the water . I be personally determined to ensure that tidal stream continue to grow . we maintain our global leadership , with a very high percentage UK supply chain as a far positive to it . he tempt I to get ahead of myself on policy , but I can not do that . however , what we be do and what our dedicated pot this year do be far strengthen that so that we can get in a position where that might be a realistic policy position to take . even with a high price , offshore wind would help to slash bill . when the Minister see the irish Government recognise inflation , up the price and proceed to a successful auction , what discussion do he have with the industry and with Treasury colleague about the price to be set ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , which be a good one . obviously , we do look at whether intervention , give that price continue to change after they be set , be the right thing to do . we think that the CfD mechanism — the way that it be operate — be sound and that the good thing to do be to allow that to pass for the year . one reason for have the annual auction be precisely to allow we quickly to adjust , and , as I say , as soon as November , we will be set the parameter for the next year . last November , the Government pay up to £ 700 million to China General Nuclear Corporation to buy out China ' s state - own nuclear power enterprise from Sizewell C , and we spend the good part of 2022 free ourselves from our reliance on russian oil and gas . give the failure of this government to sell offshore wind project in the late round , can the Minister please comment on how energy independence from authoritarian state be serve by this inability to run an auction ? we be now run these auction every year , and every year , we will be seek to get the generation that we require at the low possible cost to the consumer . I make no apology for do that . the fact that we have the most successful system , not only in Europe , but globally , be something that should be applaud and recognise . the Windsor report last month provide a sobering analysis about the scale of new electricity transmission infrastructure require to serve increase renewable generation and consumer demand in a very short space of time . however , as the report find , there be considerable resistance locally to pylon development , as we be find out in my constituency . competence for such development be with the Welsh Government , but will the Minister pull together a work group of Ministers from across the UK and expert to consider the Windsor report , and in particular the advantage of cable ploughing technology , which would underground those cable at a comparable cost to overhead pylon without the visual damage ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his constructive and effective question . he be absolutely right to highlight the challenge of make sure that we have the right transmission and connection infrastructure to facilitate offshore wind . we have to do that in a way that minimise negative impact on community , that reward they for host it , and that look at new technology and innovation , just as we do in other area , in order to facilitate that effective connection with minimal negative impact on community that host . in light of the disappointing result of the CfD AR5 auction and give that I be always try to be constructive in my contribution in this House , will government revisit the exclusion of Northern Ireland renewable project from the scheme , especially in light of the significant increase in onshore wind and tidal stream project support by the ar5 ? Northern Ireland be perfectly position for onshore wind and tidal stream to make a major contribution to energy security and net zero from ar6 and beyond . will the Minister commit to enable Northern Ireland to be part of ar6 ? I suggest that it be the hon . Gentleman and his colleague who need to commit to facilitate that in Northern Ireland . energy be devolve and it be up to they to get the devolved Assembly up and run . if they get devolved government go in Northern Ireland , they will unleash these opportunity . it be not for this Department , which be not responsible for energy in Northern Ireland . that complete the urgent question . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . St Leonard ' s in my constituency be one of the school affect by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . last week , we receive a ministerial statement from the Secretary of State for Education , but , this week , despite RAAC still be an issue , we have hear nothing from the Secretary of State or a Minister . the issue may be yesterday ' s news to some , but it be a very real issue for my constituent , many of whom have write to I to express their anger and anxiety about this avoidable crisis . may I please seek your guidance , Mr Speaker , as to how we can implore the Secretary of State to come back to the House this week — preferably tomorrow when it be well attend — and update we on what her Department be do ? first , I thank the hon . member for notice of her point of order . as she say , the Secretary of State do make a statement on the subject last week . I have have no notice from Ministers that they intend to make a further statement on this matter this week . however , I be sure that Ministers on the Treasury Bench will have hear her point of order , and I know that member would like an update before the House go off again . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I should say that this point of order come with a trigger warning . today BBC News , the Times and other carry shocking report that female surgeon be sexually harass , assault and in some case rape by colleague , and some of the sexual assault take place in operate theatre while female surgeon perform surgery on anaesthetised patient . the House will also be aware that on 23 May this year it be report that more than 35 , 000 incident of sexual misconduct or sexual violence be record on NHS premise in England between 2017 and 2022 . those report be just as serious as some of the revelation about sexual misconduct in the Metropolitan police , which rightly lead to the creation of the Casey review of the standard of behaviour and internal culture of the Met . but when revelation be repeatedly make about the scale of the same problem in the NHS , they be meet with Government inaction . I would be grateful if you could confirm whether the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care intend to make a statement to the House on today ' s shocking revelation , or whether he intend to announce an independent inquiry so that we can expose the scale of sexual misconduct in the NHS and put an end to that horrific practice and culture of silence . I thank the hon . member for give I notice of the point of order . I have have no indication from Ministers that they intend to make a statement on this important matter , but I be sure that the Government Front Bench will have hear the point of order . if not , I be sure the hon . Lady will pursue it through other mean , and there will be opportunity to do so before the House rise . Electricity Supply ( Vulnerable Customers ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require Ofgem to amend the condition of an electricity supply licence in relation to vulnerable customer ; to require Ofgem to establish a fund for the purpose of rectify dangerous electrical fault for vulnerable customer ; to require energy supply company to inform vulnerable customer about the service available to customer on the Priority Services Register ; and for connected purpose . I rise to propose a Bill that would address a critical issue in our energy sector . the Bill aim to require Ofgem to revise the term of electricity supply licence with a much - need focus on vulnerable customer . specifically , it call for the creation of a fund by Ofgem to rectify dangerous electrical fault affect vulnerable customer . additionally , it would mandate energy supply company to inform vulnerable customer about their entitlement under the Priority Services Register and related matter . as the UK move towards achieve net zero emission , our home be undergo a transformation in how they use energy . we be transition away from gas and increasingly adopt clean energy system . currently , 74 % of home rely on gas boiler for heating , but by 2035 , up to 47 % of home could depend on electrically power technology such as heat pump . the shift to electricity be expect to continue in the year ahead . in this transition , it be imperative that we prioritise the safety and well - being of our vulnerable citizen . last year in England alone , there be a staggering 2 , 695 fire cause by home electrical installation , an average of seven fire a day . those incident encompass issue relate to electrical distribution within home and heating system . despite support from organisation such as Electrical Safety First , the Gas Safe Charity , the Chartered Institute of Housing , the National Home Improvement Council and National Energy Action , the Priority Services Register maintain by energy supplier have fall short in address critical electrical safety concern for the most vulnerable in our society . the PSR , administer by Ofgem , serve as a support system for vulnerable energy customer , offer voluntarily by supplier . it provide assistance tailor to specific requirement . while the type of help can vary among supplier , they typically include free gas safety check for customer on mean - test benefit live with child under five year old , those receive pension and those who be disabled or chronically ill . that invaluable service have undoubtedly save life , and the Bill seek to extend similar safeguard to the many household across the country use and depend on electricity . while existing legislation in England , Scotland and Wales mandate electrical safety check for vulnerable individual live in the private rent sector , the recent Social Housing ( Regulations ) Act 2023 have extend these check to those in the social rent sector , align England with Wales and Scotland . however , a significant portion of vulnerable people may still fall through the crack . datum from various housing survey across the UK indicate that in 2021 as many as 10 . 8 million household could have qualify for the Priority Services Register , mark they as part of a vulnerable household . furthermore , the elderly population , often eligible for the PSR , predominantly reside in the owner - occupy sector , which lack mandatory requirement for essential electrical safety protection . the risk of electrical fire fatality be notably high for people age 60 and above , particularly those live alone or in old housing with outdated electric . this be significantly heighten if they have health condition such as dementia or Parkinson ' s . vulnerable people be more susceptible to electrical fire when they lack the financial mean to pay for electrical safety check or be physically unable to respond swiftly in case of a fire . many of they may reside in substandard housing with outdated electrical system , potentially in high - density housing , far increase the risk of fire spread to neighbouring property . the Bill also address the press issue of fuel poverty among PSR - register people . there be a significant overlap between vulnerable individual on the PSR and those experience fuel poverty . the rise cost of living have hit many household hard , but it be incredibly challenging for old and vulnerable group , particularly regard energy cost . as of 2022 , England alone have 3 . 26 million household in fuel poverty . in my constituency of Ilford South , 15 % of household — more than 6 , 000 family — be grapple with fuel poverty . shockingly , cold home , link to fuel poverty , contribute to 4 , 020 excess winter death in England and Wales last year : 45 life lose each day during the winter month . for vulnerable people who already face the difficult choice between heat their home and have enough to eat , afford electrical system check be often impossible . that hidden danger compound the already distress issue of fuel poverty . although the PSR be a voluntary system for energy provider , it include a requirement for free gas and carbon dioxide check under Ofgem ' s licensing condition . none the less , concern have be raise by organisation such as National Energy Action regard the alarmingly low awareness of available assistance . it be crucial for energy supplier not only to promote their service , but actively to enrol all eligible people on to the PSR , expand the reach of these service across the board . in a November 2022 study of eligible PSR customer , Electrical Safety First find that around a quarter of respondent have never check their electrical installation or be unsure if they have be check . some 85 % of they support the idea of the energy sector provide regular electrical check as a requirement of the PSR , a viewpoint share by both private and social housing landlord . of course , some of the check may reveal severe and dangerous fault in the electrical system . the Bill also address that concern . it would require energy supplier , Ofgem and local authority to have the necessary grant - make capability to address those issue . that would ensure that vulnerable people with electrical fault be afford the same protection as those with gas safety issue . we have a moral obligation to shield the most vulnerable member of our society from the devastating consequence of fuel poverty and electrical danger . today , as the Bill receive its First Reading , we take the first crucial step toward achieve this goal . it would guarantee that , as a statutory minimum , those most susceptible to fuel poverty during this era of rise living cost would receive enhance electrical safety protection . we can not permit million of people to make the heart - wrench choice between food , safety , and live in peril . I urge the House to support my Bill today . question put and agree to , order , that Sam Tarry , Mike Amesbury , Andrew Western , Olivia Blake , Lloyd Russell - Moyle , Karl Turner , Jim Shannon , Sarah Olney , Chris Loder , Derek Thomas , Sir Peter Bottomley and Alison Thewliss present the Bill . Sam Tarry accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 365 ) . Speaker ' s Statement Colleagues , imminently we will come to the motion on the retirement of the Clerk of the House , and I will look to the Leader of the House to move the motion of congratulation to the outgoing Clerk of the House , Sir John Benger . just before I do so , I would like to place on record a letter to I from Sir John . he write : " you notify the House last February of my intention to retire as Clerk of the House to take up a new role next month as Master of St Catharine ' s College Cambridge . I want to thank you , Mr Speaker , for your unfailing support both to I personally and to the House of Commons Administration . you care deeply about the institution of Parliament , but also about all of the staff who work here . I want to record your personal contribution to improve the welfare space for many of our staff on rota work unsociable hour in often difficult condition . I also want to thank you for place so high a priority on security for all who work in Parliament — you sit in this Chamber during those difficult hour follow the murder of pc Keith Palmer , an event I know which affect you deeply . may I also thank the deputy speaker who have be a pleasure to work with . the murder of two honourable member , Sir David Amess , and Jo Cox , cause we all great sadness . I know Sir David personally — he serve on the Health Committee for all of the six year I clerk it , always enthusiastic , never fail to see the absurdity in life , but , like Jo Cox , a tireless champion of his constituent and of the cause he believe in . nowadays , every Member have to deal with more than their fair share of abuse and hostility . but I have to say I have find almost all member to be passionately commit to change the world for the well and serve their constituent . I will always remember and appreciate that commitment by member to public service . I take up my current role in March 2019 and my main objective be to help implement the recommendation make by Dame Laura Cox in her report follow the dreadful account of bullying and harassment in Parliament . all Dame Laura ' s key recommendation have be implement , and we should celebrate the fact that our Parliament now lead the world in have an independent process to examine such matter . there be more to be do as we all know , and too much unacceptable behaviour still occur , but I salute those member and staff who have the courage to help introduce the icgs . my first few month be occupy with the fraught challenge of Brexit , in the context of a minority government , and many of we will remember what a difficult parliament that be . but of course , even great challenge lie around the corner , with the advent of Covid - 19 , prompt dramatic change to how we operate . I be so proud of my colleague for help this Parliament to lead the world in sit in hybrid form , transform procedure , adapt our physical space and rapidly introduce the necessary technology , to achieve this in a matter of day , a truly astonishing achievement . here in Parliament we have some of the fine public servant — dedicated , professional and at their good when there be a challenge . but it be their friendship and support , as much as their professionalism that I will remember , and for which I will always be grateful . your sincerely , John . " I would now like to take this opportunity to say a few word of my own about Sir John . hon . member may not realise this , but John be in fact a northerner , have grow up in Stockport . if you want proof of those northern root , I suggest you say something derogatory about Manchester United . his continued commitment to the north will then become very clear . the team have be leave a little in the shadow by Manchester City of late , and he struggle to stomach that . John leave the north , however , to join the House in 1986 , have , on the way , read English Literature at St Catharine ' s College , train as a teacher and complete his doctorate in English at Oxford University . his first role in the then Clerk ' s Department be as second Clerk on what be then the Trade and Industry Committee . it be there that he first meet the Member of Parliament for Warrington North , one Doug Hoyle . that be not to be the last hoyle he would work with . indeed , both as Speaker and before that as Chairman of Ways and Means , I have be privileged to have work alongside John since he be appoint the 51st Clerk of the House . John have be Clerk through what by anyone ' s estimation have be a challenging period . he provide leadership during the pandemic with the same diligence and focus that he apply to everything he turn his hand to , temper as always with his signature good humour . he have also be at the helm during many occasion when this House have be at the centre of national and international attention , as it be follow the death of her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II just a year ago . it be a credit to his leadership , and of course to all those who work here and support the House , that through all these turbulent time the House of Commons have show itself in its very good light . John should be very proud of the progress he have make in improve the culture and environment in which we all work , follow the finding of bullying and harassment by Laura Cox in 2018 . he have be a personal champion of work on inclusion and diversity in the House of Commons and a mentor for colleague in and out of Parliament . I know I speak for all those who work here when I thank he for his dedication to those important area of work . I will always be grateful to John for the support and sound guidance he have give I over his past four year as Clerk . John have be a friend as well as Clerk of the House . to know John take a little bit of understanding ; he be always dedicate to the House and will always put the House first , but he be more dedicated to Erskine and May , his two cat , who be of a great age at over 18 year , and nothing will stop he leave to ensure they be feed and well look after . John ' s other speciality be chicken . if I ever hear he say , " I have get to get home , I must put the chicken in " , I be never quite sure whether it be for the family or for Erskine and May . I know the House will join I today in thank Sir John for contribute nearly four decade of exemplary public service . I wish he all the very good in his new role as Master of St Catharine ' s College , Cambridge . their gain be our loss , but we wish he well , and I know the House will continue as he would expect . retirement of the Clerk of the House I beg to move , that Mr Speaker be request to convey to Sir John Benger KCB , on his retirement from the office of Clerk of the House , this House ' s gratitude for his long and distinguished service , for his wise contribution to the development of the procedure of the House during testing time and in the face of the unprecedented challenge of the pandemic , for his engaged and inclusive leadership and his professionalism in the discharge of his duty as head of the House Administration , and for the courteous and helpful advice always give to individual honourable member . it be a real pleasure to move the motion to give the House the opportunity to pay tribute to Sir John , who leave this place on 30 September to take up the role of master of St Catharine ' s College , Cambridge . I be sure that I speak on behalf of the whole House when I say that Sir John have be an outstanding Clerk and have give an incredible level of service to the House of Commons , not just in this Chamber but throughout the House and the estate — a service span 37 year . Sir John have be Clerk to a number of the busy and most high - profile Select Committees , include Public Accounts , Treasury and Health . he stay at the latter Committee for six year while it undertake a number of landmark inquiry on tobacco , the pharmaceutical industry and obesity . he have also work in a number of procedural team , include the Public Bill Office and the Table Office , as well as be director of service delivery in the department for information service between 2010 and 2015 . Sir John be appoint the 51st Clerk of the House of Commons in February 2019 follow the formal approval of her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II . in the four year of service since , he have work with five leader of the House : my right hon . friend the Members for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) and for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , as well as myself . he know parliamentary procedure well than almost anyone , and he know that there be a right and a wrong way to adhere to protocol , but he be also a pragmatist and know how to help member navigate procedure when practice need to evolve . that pragmatism and adaptability be exceedingly valuable as Sir John face a challenge that none of his predecessor have ever encounter : covid - 19 present incredible difficulty to the business of this House . I think we can now safely say that the House Administration , lead by Sir John , rise to meet those challenge with great speed and efficiency . it would have be unthinkable before 2020 but , for the first time , right hon . and hon . member could make contribution to debate virtually . on 22 April 2020 , just a month after the country have lock down , my hon . friend the Member for Dudley North ( Marco Longhi ) ask the first remote question during Welsh question . there be also experiment with a number of voting style before the pass reader voting system that we have be settle on . Sir John have give so much of himself to this House . I thank he , on behalf of we all , for his service and for the care that he have show we all , as evidence in the letter that you just read out , Mr Speaker . I do not think that I could have think any more of he , but have learn that he have give a home to two moggie , I hold he in even great esteem . I wish he all the good in his new career . I commend the motion to the House . I call the shadow Leader of the House , whom I welcome to her new position . it be a real pleasure , as one of my first act as shadow Leader of the House , to pay tribute to the work of Sir John Benger , who will leave his role as Clerk of the House at the end of the month . I will not take it personally that he be leave his job only a few day after I start mine . maybe , give what you say , Mr Speaker , it be because I be a Manchester City fan , but I will discuss that with he offline . the Leader of the House have rightly pay tribute to Sir John ' s long career and the many achievement that he have clock up over his decade of service to Parliament . despite not have have the privilege to work much with Sir John directly , I have in my short time in this role hear time and again about his knowledge , generosity and wisdom , which have be invaluable to so many member . Sir John ' s tenure as Clerk come during a period of extraordinary turbulence for our Parliament . it probably throw up more challenge to the way the House work than any other time in our history . he start with Parliament lock in stalemate , with seemingly no majority on how to deal with the fallout of Brexit . the most obscure parliamentary procedure be dust off shelf and use in way it have not be use for decade . Sir John have always ensure that , no matter how controversial or challenge the debate , he give fair and impartial advice to member across the House . as we have hear , covid present unprecedented challenge for the tradition of how we work . we have to bring our 200 - year - old Parliament quickly into the digital age in a matter of hour . some way of work be change for good — perhaps not as many as I would like . I think I ask my first hybrid PMQ in my living room as my child dance in the background — it be a challenging time . of course , after the death of her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth , Parliament become a place of national mourning and help to bring the country together through that difficult time . it be also the epicentre of global interest , with million tune into the live feed of Westminster Hall , which do not happen all that often . Parliament and all its staff , under Sir John ' s leadership , do our country so proud during that period . Sir John have also see many happy event , such as the unveiling of Big Ben after major restoration work — I be amuse to find out that the Clerk of the House technically own Big Ben , as I understand it . he oversee improvement in welfare facility , training opportunity and support for House staff , as well as the independent complaint and grievance scheme . those improvement be rapidly change the culture in this place and will serve as part of his legacy . Sir John have work to move we on to the next stage of restoration and renewal , which will preserve this historic estate into the future . in addition , the Clerk be chief executive officer of the Commons and responsible for around 3 , 000 staff perform a variety of role , include , as John himself have describe : " pastry chef , lawyer , clock winder , security guard , researcher , and even a chaplain and a falconer " . and if that be not enough , he sit at the table of the House for at least part of every day , to advise and record decision . those be serious responsibility , and I be not sure how Sir John have find the time to do they all while maintain the professionalism , kindness and wisdom for which he be so well know , give the right advice at the right time , always in confidence . I be sure that colleague across the House will join I in wish Sir John the very good at St Catharine ' s College , Cambridge . they be lucky to have he . we look forward to welcome Tom Goldsmith from October . I call the Father of the House . it be a pleasure to follow the first three speech — your , Mr Speaker , and those of the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House . one distinguish under Clerk of the Parliaments — otherwise know as the Clerk of the Commons — be John Hatsell . in Orlo Williams ' s great book , " the Clerical Organisation of the House of Commons 1661 - 1850 " , Hatsell be describe as attract the confidence of lead politician " by his sympathetic understanding , though he be no sycophant of those in power . " I think that be the right role for the Clerk and for those they lead in the Clerks department . Sir John draw the attention of a commentator in the Press Gallery three year ago . a member of a particular party complain that , if everyone have to stay six foot — or two metre — apart , there would not possibly be room for all SNP Members to perch in their usual seat . the commentator write : " the clerk , with the small flash of weariness , say most problem could be resolve by ' common sense and everyone behave in a grow - up way ' . common sense and grow - up behaviour ? we may need to keep an eye on Clerk Benger . " they add that Sir John be " a model clerk : circumspect , bookish , fair … in the good sense , a modest public servant . " I think that that be the kind of reputation that each person join the Clerks department would wish to have , whether or not they achieve the high office . Sir John be , in his academic life , an expert on Martin Marprelate ' s tract , which basically mock the Church of England . the style be describe as " a heady mixture of nonsense , satire , protest , irony and gossip , combine with pungent wit , full of the language of the street " — or unparliamentary language . be Sir John ' s predecessor , Sir David Natzler , here , he would say that the tract be good preparation for the intrigue , deception and vituperation a member of the House of Commons Commission have to get use to in the old day . Mr Speaker , let I use the word of your predecessor , John Bercow , who say that the Clerks department be " unstinting , selfless , formidable and … quite exceptional . " he go on to say that a good Clerk be " bless with a brilliant brain , an understated manner , unfaile courtesy , and an absolute and undiluted passion for Parliament " . — [ Official Report , 13 February 2019 ; Vol . 654 , c . 921 . ] follow his retirement as Clerk , Sir Thomas Erskine May — who , like Sir John , spend time in the Library as well as in the Clerks department — go on to become Baron Farnborough of Hampshire , and he hold that role for six day before he die , make it the second short peerage . I hope that Sir John ' s time at St Catharine ' s be long and that , when he get to Cambridge , he will understand what it be like to be a member of the Denis Thatcher society , marry to a person more important than you be . his wife , Professor Susan , be an expert Anglo - Saxonist . I refer those who be interested to her Chadwick memorial lecture in 2017 on uncertain beginning . I think the Clerk arrive in Cambridge will not be uncertain . as the 40th master of St Catharine ' s , I hope he have as good a time as we hope he have have with we , and we thank he for his service . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be a great pleasure to speak in this debate on behalf of the Scottish National party , to add to the tribute pay to Sir John Benger and congratulate he on his new role as master of St Catharine ' s College , Cambridge — his alma mater , as you share with we , Mr Speaker . Sir John ' s departure mark the end of nearly four decade of exceptional service to the House of Commons in various capacity . only a handful of mp have serve this institution as long as Sir John have . during his four - year tenure as Clerk of the House , Sir John face a series of unique and unprecedented challenge . just a year into his tenure , he be task with lead the House service ' s swift and extremely successful response to the outbreak of covid - 19 , ensure the continued and safe operation of Parliament . those early lockdown be , as everyone will recall , a very worrying and uncertain time for everyone , and Sir John ' s calm , diligent effort to navigate the House through the pandemic , include the swift implementation of remote and virtual participation , stand out as some of his most significant achievement . I want to echo the tribute that my hon . friend and other be pay to John Benger today . during my time as SNP Chief Whip , he be always a source of extremely valuable advice and , while some of the issue we have to deal with be perhaps easy than other , as my hon . friend allude to , his professionalism and courtesy shine throughout it all . I be pleased to have the opportunity to say how grateful I be to he for his service and to wish he all the good . I thank my hon . friend for that fitting tribute ; I know he work closely with Sir John over the year . I also pay great tribute to Sir John for oversee the establishment of the Independent Expert Panel , to determine complaint of bullying and harassment in relation to mps , implement the recommendation in Dame Laura Cox ' s report . another major project during Sir John ' s term have be the ongoing restoration and renewal of the parliamentary estate . the Public Accounts Committee warn : " there be a real and rise risk that a catastrophic event will destroy the Palace before it be ever repair and restore . " the evidence that Sir John give to the Committee early this year should be read carefully by all member of both Houses , especially those who think that this building be perfect and nothing need to change . I have not know Sir John for very long on a personal level , so I will admit that I do pop in to see a senior Clerk to gather some of her insight . she describe he as a deeply intelligent man with a sharp sense of humour who have a truly passionate love of football . as we have hear , he be a Man United fan , so I be sure he will be hope for some improvement after a slightly difficult start to the season . colleague who have work with Sir John closely remark on his rich , eclectic cultural and intellectual interest . that be one of the quality , perhaps , that have help he successfully transition between various different role in this place — for example , at one point move from the Commons clerk team to the Commons Library . Sir John draw inspiration from different field and sector to inform his work in Parliament . I be tell that he be a keen reader of the Harvard Business Review at a time when that be consider unusual , and he engage with bank and other such organisation to gain insight into improve customer service for Members . Parliament have certainly benefit from that approach . the " mps ' guide to Procedure " , which I know member and staff find enormously helpful and practical , be an initiative that he lead on , as well as introduce simple thing such as the buddye system for new mp , which newcomer find invaluable when attempt to navigate the complexity of this place . I wish Sir John all the good in his new role and his future endeavour , and I warmly congratulate Tom Goldsmith on his appointment as Sir John ' s successor . Tom be most recently Principal Clerk of the Table Office , and he have be with the House service since 1996 , so he will bring a vast range of expertise and experience to the job . my colleague and I very much look forward to work with he . I call the former Leader of the House . Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg . one of the great virtue of the Clerks — and particularly of the Under Clerk of the Parliaments — be that whether we be the most junior , most recently elect Member or the Leader of the House , we get the good , cleverest advice confidentially . during that difficult time of the 2017 - 19 Parliament , which Sir John handle brilliantly , people be go in to seek advice to do completely opposite thing . some want to smooth Government business through , and other want to obstruct it , and each one of we be give good , professional , thoughtful advice and treat without any difference accord to seniority or recent appearance in this House . that be a true mark of a good Clerk and of fairness . to give an example of the complexity of the issue , one that come up be whether a Humble Address fall at Prorogation or not . the first edition of " Erskine May " say that it do . a subsequent edition of " Erskine May " — about the 12th , I think — say that it do not . after that , nobody mention it , because we have not have Humble Addresses for 150 year . the Clerks have to work out which it be and how it be , and advise accordingly . although this be not the occasion for pay tribute to you , Mr Speaker , because I hope you be go to stay in office for a very long time , it have to be say that you then make the very important statement that you would stick to clerkly advice or give a write reason as to why not , reinforce the importance and independence of the role , because it be a key constitutional role . other have mention covid and what Sir John do to ensure that the House sit . he turn the whole House around ; it be a really remarkable thing . we go away for the Easter recess have no idea how this House would sit when it come back — none at all . we have no idea whether the technology would possibly work , and yet the Clerk be be tell that he have to get Parliament back . it be our democratic requirement that this House should sit and sit safely . that be perhaps easy for some of we to say , because it be the Clerk who have the legal responsibility . we must bear in mind the uncertainty of that time ; nobody know how serious or how dangerous the disease be or what its effect might be , but we know we have to have Parliament back . as we say to he from time to time , " it be all very well , but you , Sir John " — or Dr Benger , as he be then — " be the one who go to prison if you get it wrong . " he take that responsibility and ensure that democracy carry on . he have be an innovator and have introduce thing in this House . we have mention the icgs , which he be a great driver behind and which have be hugely to the benefit of the House . he also get rid of the wig . that come as a great surprise to I . I have always know that the Clerks be some of the clever people in the world . we know that whenever we go to see they to ask a question on some procedural point . their wisdom be phenomenal . I think that this be because they keep their brain warm by wear wig , and that without that warmth , the brainpower would not carry on as it have . but I confess , I turn out to be wrong ; their brainpower continue without that warmth . I should have know what a radical our Clerk really be at heart . as my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) point out , his specialist subject be the Marprelate tract . one of the thing that Marprelate be so against be clerical dress — he ridicule the clothe wear by the clergy — so it be no surprise that , in a radical act , Sir John simplify the dress of the Clerks . we all wish he enormously well . he have be a model of clerkly wisdom and service to this House . I call the Mother of the House . thank you , Mr Speaker . I associate myself with everything you say about Sir John , and also what the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House , my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) — who I welcome to her position — say . I do not intend to repeat everything that everybody have already say , but to warmly and very personally thank Sir John and pay tribute to he . when somebody have be work in the same field for four decade , they accumulate a huge amount of experience and wisdom , but it can sometimes be the case that they get stick in the old way and think thing should not change . the great thing about Sir John be that he accumulate all that wisdom and experience , but he be never stick in the past ; he fiercely protect the endure value of this House , but also show himself to be an ally of progress and modernisation . I think we all recognise that there be furth to go , but he have that remarkable duality of characteristic . he lead an absolutely extraordinary team of Clerks ; we always need to take the opportunity to say how lucky we know we be to have the Clerks ' advice . it be quite easy to take it for grant , because it be always like that and it have always be like that , but we depend on it so much . I pay tribute to Sir John for his leadership of that clerk team . clearly , Sir John have a brain the size of a planet , but he be never condescend with it : he be always very pleasant , and never pompous . many people who be that clever can not resist look down on those who be not , but he never do that — he be always a pleasure to deal with . I wish he well in his new role at St Catharine ' s , and I also hope that he will write his memoir . as colleague have say , he have be through an enormous swathe of history from a bird ' s - eye point of view , so if he do , I for one will certainly be read they . once again , I thank he for his extraordinary service and wish he all the good for the future , and I also wish all the good to his successor . Mr Speaker , I too would like to associate myself with your remark , and with the tribute pay to Sir John Benger by all other person in the Chamber . it be always an enormous pleasure to know that the Clerks Department , which be so important to the functioning of this House , be in such safe hand . I will just refer to one or two incident that have occur . my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) and one or two other refer to what I call the paralysis Parliament between 2017 and 2019 , where there be a great deal of fractiousness . effectively , decision be take — sometimes by a coalition , shall we call it , across the Floor of the House — the result of which be that nothing could be do . it be a time of very considerable frustration to many of we , but have such wise clerk such as Sir John Benger at the front of the ship , guide we through that period of time , be incredibly important . of course , we come out of it eventually . that be as compare with 1986 — I be bind to say this , be I not ? if I do not , I would regard myself as have walk away from the subject . in 1986 , I be tell by the Clerks , and also by the Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means , that I be not allow to even debate the issue of sovereignty . I table an amendment to the Single European Act 1987 ; I have to confess that I be the only person in the House who have an amendment on the subject . by 2020 , the situation have change so much that the sovereignty amendment to the European Union ( Withdrawal Agreement ) Act 2020 , section 38 of that Act , go through without any adverse comment , either in this House or in the House of Lords . that be a tribute to the change that have take place , and to the guidance and navigation of Sir John Benger and other who allow those important constitutional change to take place . People have speak eloquently about covid , and I could not agree more . I have not the faint idea what be go to happen when we all return to the country , up in Shropshire or wherever it happen to be , and wonder what on earth we be go to do — how on earth be we go to be able to participate ? it run very , very smoothly , and it could only have run so smoothly with the wisdom and judgment of those like Sir John Benger , and Sir John in particular . I also pay tribute to his contribution to the funeral arrangement for her late Majesty the Queen . with those thought , I simply wish Sir John the very well when he get to St Catharine ' s , Cambridge . when I hear that it be St Catharine ' s , I think for one moment that it might have be St Catherine ' s , Oxford , but it be not : it be St Catharine ' s , Cambridge . whichever university he be go to , I wish he the good of luck , and I hope it all work well for he . like other speaker , I associate myself with your remark , Mr Speaker , and those we have hear so far today in recognise Sir John Benger and his departure from the House to St Catharine ' s . I be elect in December 2019 , and my first engagement with Sir John in that first and last sit week of 2019 be bleary - eyed and tired , here in the Chamber with other new mps , be privy to the procedure and process that we need to follow . I do my good to listen , but I also believe that an MP be not properly an MP in this place until they have stand up at an oral question session , start to ask their substantive question , and be tell by yourself , Mr Speaker , to say " question number eight — apology " and sit back down . we all do our good to pay attention to the Clerk and the guidance he and his team give , but sometimes we do not quite manage it . we of the 2019 intake have be mps for such a short period of time before covid take place that we be still get to grip with the way the process work . I can certainly speak for my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) by say that the communication we have from the House via the Clerk ensure that we be as well equipped as we could possibly be as we come back in a virtual environment . it be a very different environment ; it be very good that we be back here in this place , but the amendment and adjustment that be able to be make , include those that we have take forward , be part of Sir John ' s legacy . since September 2020 , I have act as the Whip for the Liberal Democrats . the Father of the House mention that a previous Clerk have " sympathetic understanding " , and I would certainly say that that have be the case for John in relation to I . he have be sympathetically understanding of my sometimes completely daft question , treat they with respect , and give I the appropriate advice accordingly . I be hugely grateful for that . we be reflect on what have happen since Sir John become Clerk of the House . I have reflect on covid , the work that take place to mark the death of her Majesty Queen Elizabeth , and the restoration work that this place require go forward . however , for I — particularly as a Whip — his long - last legacy will be change the culture in this place , the thing that we do not see . as we recognise that the Clerk ' s role be to provide non - political , impartial advice , it behove we as parliamentarian to think about how we change that culture for the well in much the same way . it be always sad when we say goodbye to a Clerk of the House — exciting when we welcome a new one , but sad when we see a Clerk depart . Sir John have be kind , thoughtful and reflective . this have be a very challenging Parliament , but all Parliaments be challenge , and we would expect the Clerk to rise to that challenge . I will miss he greatly . People have say that he be wise , and I have benefit from that wisdom on a number of occasion . however , one of his most underappreciated talent be that he do not speak very often and he do not speak very loudly , so when he do speak , he capture the room and people listen . we benefit in our Parliament from the very good clerk in the world . that be a testament to Sir John ' s effort over his four year lead this place and his team , and to his predecessor . I be sure the next Clerk will deliver a great Parliament and lead a great team . I rise on behalf of my party , Plaid Cymru , to pay tribute to John Benger for his commitment to this House . we be talk about four decade , and 36 year be a very long time in a workplace . he have serve diligently and conscientiously , and during that tenure he have undoubtedly see some of the high and low of parliamentary life . Sir John ' s tireless work , whether through Brexit or the pandemic , as we have hear , have ensure an extraordinarily smooth running of this place through what be often the most torrid of time . I would particularly like to thank Sir John for his work in implement the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme . it have be clear that the welfare of staff have be of the utmost importance to he , and the guidance in this place be a testament to his good work . we be talk about a cultural sea change and how to put that into effect , and see its be put into effect here have be extremely interesting . of course , it be not over — it be not do — but it do change how we handle ourselves and each other . I think that that work be one of the thing we will hold on to , and see he realise it be one of the thing we will remember he for , alongside the technological change and his own style of working . I would like to place on the record my personal thank , and those of my party , for his adept , agile stewardship as Clerk of the House , and of course to wish he the very good for his new position as the master of St Catharine ' s College . I rise to speak as Chair of the House of Commons Procedure Committee , and I wish to associate myself and my Committee with the remark make so far . I know that we as a Committee agree wholeheartedly with the tribute that have be pay so far . the Procedure Committee constitute itself on 2 March 2020 , and at the end of our agenda , when we get to " any other business " , somebody ask , " do you think we should find out something about this coronavirus that people be talk about ? " we agree that we would invite Sir John to come to speak to the Committee privately the following Monday , and he be face with a Committee of very enthusiastic mp , all keen to hear about procedure and what we might do with this unknown thing call coronavirus — I see a fellow member of the Committee , the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , who be there at the time . we hear from Sir John term such as " social distancing " , and he talk about our sitting , as one would expect from Sir John , " six foot " apart , not " two metre . " he talk about how he would transform this place so that we could continue to sit , and we would have to have space between member and make sure there be list of speaker . we sit there just astonish , because this be not something anyone on the Procedure Committee have expect we would be face so soon after be constitute , but we do . only a few week later , this House go into hybrid form , and introduce new voting system and new way of work . it be to the credit of Sir John and you , Mr Speaker , that this Parliament continue to sit throughout the pandemic , because many other do not manage to do so . we continue to sit here , hold Ministers to account , scrutinise legislation and get business do . that be a great credit to you and to Sir John . as other have reflect , Sir John ' s tenure have three of the great moment in this place — Brexit , the pandemic and the passing of her Majesty the Queen — all of which he manage , as the chief executive of this place , with such aplomb , so courteously and so wisely . of course , he be here for the change in culture in this place , and the grievance procedure that have be introduce would be enough for any Clerk ' s tenure , never mind do it in the background of all of the other great thing that be happen . I wish Sir John well . I know he will be fantastic in his new role at St Catherine ' s College , Cambridge . I hope he do not have to deal with quite so many momentous activity during his time there and that he can enjoy his time as master . I wish his successor well , and again I hope we have a slightly less frenetic Parliament for he . it be a matter of pride for I to contribute to this debate because Sir John be from Stockport , and many people be not aware of the fact . I remember when , after I be elect , I walk through those door , take the affirmation and sign the register , that he shake my hand and inform I that he be from Stockport and have be to Stockport Grammar , and I be fascinate by that and by his manner . anyone who interact with he know that he be extremely intelligent . well , he be extremely intelligent — I be speak of he in the past tense for some reason — as well as very polite and extremely helpful , and he go out of his way to help people . I often talk about the north - south divide , the Westminster bubble and all those thing , so it be wonderful for I to see that someone who be bear and bring up in Stockport and grow up and go to school in Stockport then find his way to the House Service , give all those year — almost 37 year — of service to this House and rise up through the rank to become the head of the House Service , which I think be fantastic . I be also interested when I find out that Sir John not only go to Stockport Grammar , but go on a scholarship and then go on to read English literature at St Catharine ' s , Cambridge . over the last four year I have have several interaction with Sir John , and he be always very polite and helpful . a few month ago , he be suppose to visit my constituency and I be suppose to organise a visit for he to a local school so that he could talk about his journey from Stockport to Westminster and , in the future , back to Cambridge . unfortunately , that visit hit a snag , so I want to place on the record that the invitation be still open , and I think Sir John have agree to come back . I have only just find out from your contribution , Mr Speaker , that he support Manchester United . I assure he that I would be happy to take he to Edgeley , where Stockport County play , although I can not guarantee that he will find many Manchester United supporter there . I wish Sir John the good for the future . People often talk about mps and Lords when they talk about this place , but it be outstanding Crown servant who be the real engine of this institution . without people like Dr Benger , our democratic institution would fail to function . I want to place on the record , on behalf of the people of Stockport , our thank to he for his service . I wish Mr Tom Goldsmith , the incoming Clerk , the good success in the future . once again , it be a matter of great pride that someone from the north come down and achieve this status , and I really hope that Sir John will take up my offer of a visit . it be a pleasure for I , on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party , to place on the record our sincere thank to the Clerk , Sir John Benger , and to pass on our good wish to he in his new vocation and job at Cambridge . Sir John be a very active Clerk , as we all know . he be very helpful , appreciative and responsive to we all . as an active participant myself in this House , along with other , I be well aware of his tremendous role , and he may even hold the record for attendance and indeed for participation . Sir John have work as the head of administration during all those time other have refer to , such as Brexit , the murder of hon . member of this House and the response we all take in what be incredibly difficult time , and the murder of Constable Keith Palmer . those all stick in my mind . I remember our be protect , if that be the right word — I be go to say imprison , but we be protect — in this House for a period of time and unable to get out , but that be the good thing . we may not have think so at the time , but it be the good way to respond . with the pandemic , obviously for myself and other in this House the question be : how do we handle that ? well , Sir John know how to handle it . he do it right , and we all support he . maybe we personally do not quite understand all the precaution and thing that be happen , but we understand the reason for they , and that be important . there be difficult time and poignant time . obviously , there be the Queen ' s funeral — one of those occasion that I believe only we british can do so well — and I take that on board . there be the heavy time as well , when emotion be high and people ' s temper and what they say be not always conducive to the House behave in the way it should . however , Sir John be that control word , that control feature or that control character . I do not mean control in tell we what to do , but control in give we the type of personality to respond in a good way . Sir John ' s long and distinguished service to this House and its member have be value not just by I personally , but by my party and , indeed — I be convinced of this — by everyone in this House . his presence here will be greatly miss . I pass on our sincere desire that God will bless he and keep he in his new role , and that he will enjoy the challenge it bring . we hope that Sir John get the relaxation he so richly deserve . if he can look after we in this House , he can certainly look after Cambridge . may I , on behalf of Sir John , thank everybody for their contribution ? he think the world of Lady Susan and their two son , Matthew and Timothy , but I have to tell you that the real eye - opener for everyone , if you ever talk about it , be his grandson solly — the apple of his eye . we wish he well , and we wish Tom Goldsmith great success as the new Clerk . question put and agree to , resolve , that Mr Speaker be request to convey to Sir John Benger KCB , on his retirement from the office of Clerk of the House , this House ' s gratitude for his long and distinguished service , for his wise contribution to the development of the procedure of the House during testing time and in the face of the unprecedented challenge of the pandemic , for his engaged and inclusive leadership and his professionalism in the discharge of his duty as head of the House Administration , and for the courteous and helpful advice always give to individual honourable member . before we proceed , I hope that the House will not mind if I abuse my position by express my own appreciation for the work of Sir John Benger , and for his friendship , his courtesy and his wisdom . it be greatly appreciate . Online Safety Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 5 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Online Safety Bill for the purpose of supplement the Order of 19 April 2022 in the last session of Parliament ( Online Safety Bill ( Programme ) ) as varied and supplement by the Orders of 12 July 2022 ( Online Safety Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) ) , 5 December 2022 ( Online Safety Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 3 ) ) and 5 December 2022 ( Online Safety Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 4 ) ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after their commencement . ( 2 ) the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : 182 , 349 , 391 , 17 , 20 , 22 , 81 , 148 , 1 to 16 , 18 , 19 , 21 , 23 to 80 , 82 to 147 , 149 to 181 , 183 to 348 , 350 to 390 , 392 to 424 . subsequent stage ( 3 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 4 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) question agree to . Online Safety Bill consideration of Lords amendment Clause 82 - General duty of OFCOM under section 3 of the Communications Act I beg to move amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 182 . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : lord amendment 349 , and Government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) . lord amendment 391 , Government amendment ( a ) , and Government consequential amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 17 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . amendment ( i ) to Government amendment ( a ) in lieu of Lords amendment 17 . lord amendment 20 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 22 , and government motion to disagree . Lords amendment 81 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) in lieu . lord amendment 148 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 1 , and amendment ( a ) and ( b ) . lord amendment 2 to 16 , 18 , 19 , 21 , 23 to 80 , 82 to 147 , 149 to 181 and 183 to 188 . lord amendment 189 , and amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 190 to 216 . lord amendment 217 , and amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 218 to 227 . Lords amendment 228 , and amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 229 and 230 . lord amendment 231 , and amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 232 to 319 . lord amendment 320 , and amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 321 , and amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 322 to 348 , 350 to 390 and 392 to 424 . as we know from proceeding in this place , the Online Safety Bill be incredibly important . I be delighted that it be return to the Commons in great shape , have go through extensive and thorough scrutiny in the Lords . the Bill be world - lead , and the legislative framework establish by it will lead to the creation of a profoundly safe online environment in this country . it will kickstart change where that be sorely need , and ensure that our child be well protect against pornography and other content that be harmful to they . the Bill will also guard child against perpetrator of abhorrent child sexual exploitation and abuse , and ensure that tech company take responsibility for tackle such content on their platform , or be hold criminally accountable . as I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) will agree , may I say how much we appreciate what the Government have do in relation to the matter just refer to ? as the Minister know , we withdraw our amendment in the House of Commons after discussion , and we have amazingly constructive discussion with the Government right the way through , and also in the House of Lords . I shall refer to that if I be call to speak later , but I simply want to put on record our thank , because this will save so many child ' s life . I thank my hon . friend and my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) for all their work on this . I hope that this debate will show that we have listen and try to work with everybody , include on this important part of the Bill . we have not be able to capture absolutely everything that everybody want , but we be all determined to ensure that the Bill get on the statute book as quickly as possible , to ensure that we start the important work of implement it . we have amend the Bill to bolster its provision . a number of topic have be of particular interest in the other place . follow engagement with colleague on those issue , we have bolster the Bill ' s protection for child , include a significant package of change relate to age assurance . we have also enhance protection for adult user . my hon . friend will know that Ministers and official in his Department have work extensively — I thank they for that — with I , Baroness Kidron , and the Bereaved Families for Online Safety group , on the amendment that will make it easy for coroner to have access to datum from online company in the tragic case where that might be a cause of a child ' s death . he will also know that there will still be gap in legislation , but such gap could be close by further measure in the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill . his ministerial colleague in the other place have commit the Government to that , so may I invite my hon . friend to set out more about the Government ' s plan for do just that ? I thank my right hon . friend for his work on this , and Baroness Kidron for her work . I will cover that in more detail in a moment , but we remain committed to explore measure that would facilitate well access to datum for coroner under specific circumstance . we be look for the good vehicle to do that , which include those possibility in the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill . we want to ensure that the protection for adult user afford people great control over their online experience . the Bill will ensure that Ofcom have the power it need to ensure that coroner be provide with the information they need follow such a tragedy . as well as my right hon . friend and Baroness Kidron , that provision be also champion by Ian Russell and other bereaved parent with whom we have work closely , to ensure that we get the right solution . I be grateful for their tireless effort . we have make sure that we can address the concern raise by member about the risk relate to the design and functionality of service , because this be a complicated issue , for a number of reason that have be well rehearse . the change I have outline will ensure that the Bill contain the strong possible protection for child , that user ' right to freedom of expression and privacy be protect , and that service be transparent and accountable . let I go into more detail on the Government amendment that be pass during the Bill ' s passage through the Lords , and the amendment that I present to the House today . as I have say , child safety be a key priority in the Bill , and during its passage through the Lords we have far strengthen its protection for child . that have include place the category of " primary priority " and " priority " content that be harmful to child in the Bill . that will provide company and Ofcom with explicit and early confirmation on the kind of content that child must be protect from , rather than address those issue later via secondary legislation . provider of the large service will also be require to publish summary of their risk assessment for illegal content and content that be harmful to child . that will empower child and their parent or carer to clearly understand the risk to child present by such service . the Government listen to the view express in both Houses and introduce new offence in Committee that will more effectively hold technology company to account if they fail to protect child . Ofcom will now be able to hold company and senior manager , where they be at fault , criminally liable if the provider fail to comply with Ofcom ' s enforcement notice in relation to specific child safety duty or to child sexual abuse and exploitation on their service . the Minister be set out a powerful case for how the Government have listen to the overture in this place and the other place . far to the intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sajid Javid ) , the former Culture Secretary , will the Minister be clear that the risk here be under - regulation , not over - regulation ? although the internet may be widely use by perfectly good people , the people who run internet company be anything but daft and more likely to be dastardly . this be a difficult path to tread in approach this issue for the first time . in many way , these be thing that we should have do 10 or 15 year ago , as social medium platform and people ' s engagement with they proliferate over that period . regulation have to be do gently , but it must be do . we must act now and get it right , to ensure that we hold the big technology company in particular to account , while also understand the massive benefit that those technology company and their product provide . I agree with the Minister that this be a groundbreake Bill , but we must be clear that there be still gap . give what he be say about the requirement for regulation of online social medium company and other platform , how will he monitor , over a period of time , whether the measure that we have be as dynamic as they need to be to catch up with social medium as it develop ? the hon . Lady ask an important question , and that be the essence of what we be do . we have try to make this Bill flexible and proportionate . it be not technology specific , so that it be as future - proof as possible . we must obviously lean into Ofcom as it seek to operationalise the Act once the Bill gain Royal Assent . Ofcom will come back with its reporting , so not only will Government and the Department be a check on this , but Parliament will be able to assess the efficacy of the Bill as the system bed in and as technology and the various platform move on and develop . I talk about the offence , and I will just finalise my point about criminal liability . those offence will be punishable with up to two year in prison . far to that point about the remain gap in the Bill , I appreciate what the Minister say about this area be a move target . everybody — not just in this country , but around the world — be have to learn as the internet evolve . I thank the Minister for Government amendment 241 , which deal with provenance and understanding where information post on the web come from , and allow people therefore to check whether they want to see it , if it come from dubious source . that be an example of a collective harm — of people post disinformation and misinformation online and attempt to subvert our democratic process , among other thing . I park with he , if I may , the notion that we will have to come back to that area in particular . it be an area where the Bill be particularly weak , notwithstanding all the good stuff it do elsewhere , notably on the area he have mention . I hope that everyone in this House accept that that area will need to be revisit in due course . undoubtedly we will have to come back to that point . not everything need to be in the Bill at this point . we have industry initiative , such as Adobe ' s content security policy , which be good initiative in themselves , but as we well understand misinformation , disinformation , deepfake and the proliferation and repetition of fake image , fake text and fake news , we will need to keep ensure we can stay ahead of the game , as my hon . Friend say . that be why we have make the legislation flexible . I have two thing to ask . first , will the Minister spell out more clearly how Parliament will be able to monitor the implementation ? what mechanism do we have to do that ? secondly , on director liability , which I warmly welcome — I be pleased that the Government have listen to Back Benchers on this issue — do he not agree that the example we have set in the Bill should be copy in other Bills , such as the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , where a similar proposal exist from Back Benchers across the House ? the right hon . Lady raise some interesting point . we have converse about harm , so I totally get her point about make sure that we tackle this issue in Parliament and be accountable in Parliament . as I have say , that will be do predominantly by monitor the Bill through Ofcom ' s report on what harm it be have to deal with . we have regular engagement with Ofcom , not only here and through the Select Committees , but through the Secretary of State . on criminal liability , we converse about that and make sure that we have a liability attach to something specific , rather than the general approach propose at the beginning . it therefore mean that we be not chill innovation . People can understand , as they set up their approach and system , exactly what they be get into in term of risk for criminal liability , rather than have the general approach that be suggest at the beginning . the review mechanism strike I as one of the place where the Bill fall down and be weak , because there be not a dedicated review mechanism . we have need this legislation for more than 30 year , and we have now get to the point of legislating . do the Minister understand why I have no faith that future legislation will happen in a timely fashion , when it have take we so long even to get to this point ? can he give we some reassurance that a proper review will take place , rather than just have Ofcom report that may or may not be read ? I have talk about the fact that we have to keep this legislation under review , because the landscape be fast - move . at every stage that I have be deal with this Bill , I have say that inevitably we will have to come back . we can make the Bill as flexible , proportionate and tech - unspecific as we can , but thing be move quickly . with all our work on AI , for example , such as the AI summit , the work of the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence , the international response , the Hiroshima accord and all the other area that my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) speak about early , we will have to come back , review it and look at whether the legislation remain world - beat . it be not just about the finding of Ofcom as it report back to we . I need to make a bit of progress , because I hope to have time to sum up a little bit at the end . we have listen to concern about ensure that the Bill provide the most robust protection for child from pornography and on the use of age assurance mechanism . we be now explicitly require relevant provider to use highly effective age verification or age estimation to protect child from pornography and other primary priority content that be harmful to child . the Bill will also ensure a clear privacy - preserve and future - proof framework govern the use of age assurance , which will be oversee by Ofcom . there have be coverage in the medium about how the Bill relate to encryption , which have often not be accurate . I take the opportunity to set the record straight . our stance on challenge sexual abuse online remain the same . last week in the other place , my noble Friend Lord Parkinson , the parliamentary under - Secretary of State for Arts and Heritage , share recent datum from UK police force that show that 6 , 350 offence relate to sexual communication with a child be record last year alone . shockingly , 5 , 500 of those offence take place against primary school - age child . those appalling statistic illustrate the urgent need for change . the Government be commit to take action against the perpetrator and stamp out these horrific crime . the information that social medium company currently give to UK law enforcement contribute to more than 800 arrest or voluntary attendance of suspect child sexual offender on average every month . that result in an estimate 1 , 200 child be safeguard from child sexual abuse . there be no intention by the Government to weaken the encryption technology use by platform . as a last resort , on a case - by - case basis , and only when stringent privacy safeguard have be meet , Ofcom will have the power to direct company to make good effort to develop or source technology to identify and remove illegal child sexual abuse content . we know that this technology can be develop . before it can be require by Ofcom , such technology must meet minimum standard of accuracy . if appropriate technology do not exist that meet these requirement , Ofcom can not require its use . that be why the power include the ability for Ofcom to require company to make good endeavour to develop or source a new solution . do my hon . friend agree that the company already say in their term of service that they do not allow illegal use of their product , yet they do not say how they will monitor whether there be illegal use and what enforcement they take ? what the Bill give we , for the first time , be the right for Ofcom to know the answer to those question and to know whether the company be even enforce their own term of service . my hon . friend make an important point , and I thank he for the amazing work he have do in get the Bill to this point and for his ongoing help and support in make sure that we get it absolutely right . this be not about bash technology company ; it be about not only hold they to account , but bring they close , to make sure that we can work together on these issue to protect the child I be talk about . despite the breadth of exist safeguard , we recognise the concern express about privacy and technical feasibility in relation to Ofcom ' s power to issue CSE or terrorism notice . that be why we introduce additional safeguard in the Lords . first , Ofcom will be require to obtain a skilled person ' s report before issue any warning notice and exercise its power under clause 122 . Ofcom must also provide a summary of the report to the relevant provider when issue a warning notice . we be confident that in addition to Ofcom ' s exist route of evidence gathering , this measure will help to provide the regulator with the necessary information to determine whether to issue a notice and the requirement that may be put in place . we also bring forth amendment require Ofcom to consider the impact that the use of technology would have on the availability of journalistic content and the confidentiality of journalistic source when consider whether to issue a notice . that build on the exist safeguard in clause 133 regard freedom of expression and privacy . we recognise the disproportionate level of harm that woman and girl continue to face online , and that be why the Government have make a number of change to the Bill to strengthen protection for woman and girl . first , the Bill will require Ofcom to produce guidance on online harm that disproportionately affect woman and girl and to provide example of good practice to provider , and it will require provider to bring together in one clear place all the measure that they take to tackle online abuse against woman and girl on their platform . the Bill will also require Ofcom to consult the Victims ' Commissioner and the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , in addition to the Children ' s Commissioner , while prepare code of practice . that change to the Bill will ensure that the voice of victim of abuse be bring into the consultation period . the offence of control or coercive behaviour have be add as a priority offence and will require company to proactively tackle such content and activity that disproportionately affect woman and girl . the Bill also introduce new offence relate to intimate image abuse , include criminalise deepfake for the first time in England and Wales . those new offence to protect woman and girl sit alongside other change that we have make to the criminal law to ensure that it be fit for purpose in the modern age . for example , we have also introduce a new communication offence of intentionally encouraging or assist serious self - harm . our amendment will also require platform to remove the most harmful self - harm content for all user . the offence have be design to avoid criminalise or remove recovery and support content . the Government be commit to empower adult online and make change to the Bill to strengthen the user empowerment content duty . first , we have introduce a new content assessment duty in relation to the main user empowerment duty . that will require big tech platform to carry out comprehensive assessment of the prevalence of content that fall in scope of their provider ' user empowerment duty on their service , such as legal content that encourage suicide or an act of self - harm . they will need to keep a record of that assessment and publish a summary of it for their user in their term of service . the new duty will underpin the main duty to offer user empowerment tool , ensure that platform and user have a comprehensive understanding of the relevant type of content on their service . secondly , where category 1 provider offer the user empowerment tool , we have far strengthen the duty on they by require they to proactively ask their register adult user whether they wish to use the user empowerment content feature . that will help to make the tool easy for user to opt into or out of . this approach continue to balance the empowerment of user and the protection of freedom of expression by avoid the " default on " approach . Baroness Fraser of Craigmaddie make amendment in the other place that align the definition of the term " freedom of expression " in the Bill with that in the european convention on human right . that also reflect the approach of other UK legislation , include the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 . those amendment will increase clarity about freedom of expression in the Bill . the Government recognise the difficulty that coroner and bereaved family have when seek to understand the circumstance surround a child ' s death and have introduce a number of amendment to address those issue ; I have outline a bit of those . first , we expand Ofcom ' s information gather power so that the regulator can require information from regulated service about a deceased child ' s online activity follow a request from a coroner . that be back up by Ofcom ' s exist enforcement power . we have also give Ofcom the power to produce a bespoke report for the coroner and enable the regulator to share information with a coroner without the prior consent of a business to disclose . that will ensure that Ofcom can collect such information and share it with the coroner where appropriate , so that coroner have access to the expertise and information they need to conduct their investigation . finally , we have introduce amendment to ensure that the process for access datum regard the online activity of a deceased child be more straightforward and humane . the large company must set out policy on disclosure of such datum in a clear , accessible and sufficiently detailed format in their term of service . they must also respond in write in a timely manner , provide a dedicated mean for parent to communicate with the company and put in place a mechanism for parent to complain if they consider that a service be not meet its obligation . we recognise the valuable work of researcher in improve our collective understanding of online safety issue , which be why we have make amendment to the Bill that require Ofcom to publish its report into researcher access to information within 18 month rather than two year . Ofcom will then be require to publish guidance on the issue , set out good practice for platform to share information in a way that support their research function while protect user privacy and commercially sensitive material . while we will not be make additional change to the Bill during the remainder of its passage , we understand the call for further action in this area . that be why we have make a commitment to explore this issue far and report back to the House in due course on whether further measure to support researcher access to datum be require and , if so , whether they could also be implement through other legislation such as the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill . the Government hear the House ' s concern about the risk of algorithm and their impact on our interaction online . give the influence they can have , the regulator must be able to scrutinise the algorithm ' functionality and other system and process that provider use . we have therefore make change to provide Ofcom with the power to authorise a person to view specific type of information remotely : information demonstrate the operation of a provider ' s system , process or feature , include algorithm , and test or demonstration . there be substantial safeguard around the use of that power , which include : Ofcom ' s legal duty to exercise it proportionately ; a seven - day notification period ; and the legal requirement to comply with data protection rule and regulation . the Government be grateful to Baroness Morgan of Cotes and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , who like many in the House have steadfastly campaign on the issue of small but risky platform . we have accept an amendment to the Bill that change the rule for establish the condition that determine which service will be designate as category 1 or category 2b service and thus have additional duty . in make the regulation use to determine which service be category 1 or category 2b , the Secretary of State will now have the discretion to decide whether to set a threshold base on the number of user or the functionality offer , or both factor . previously , the Secretary of State be require to set the threshold base on a combination of both factor . it be still the expectation that only the most high risk user - to - user service will be designate as category 1 service . however , the change will ensure that the framework be as flexible as possible in respond to the risk landscape . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Yeovil ( Mr Fysh ) , who I know will speak later , that it be not mean to capture user - to - user system ; it be very much about content but not about stifle innovation in area such as distribute ledger and so on . I be grateful for the amendment , which I think be important . will the Minister make it clear that he will not accept the amendment table by the hon . member for Yeovil ( Mr Fysh ) . indeed , we will not be accept those amendment , but I will cover more of that later on , after I have listen to the comment that I know my hon . friend want to make . as a result of the amendment , we have also make a small change to clause 98 — the emerge category 1 service list — to ensure that it make operational sense . prior to Baroness Morgan ' s amendment , a service have to meet the functionality threshold for content and 75 % of the user number threshold to be on the emerge service list . under the amend cause , there be now a plausible scenario where a service could meet the category 1 threshold without meet any condition base on user number , so we have to make the change to ensure that the clause work in that scenario . we have always be clear that the design of a service , its functionality and its other feature be key driver of risk that impact on the risk of harm to child . Baroness Kidron ' s amendment 17 , 20 , 22 and 81 seek to treat those aspect as source of harm in and of themselves . although we agree with the objective , we be concerned that they do not work within the legislative framework and risk legal confusion and delay the Bill . we have work closely with Baroness Kidron and other parliamentarian to identify alternative way to make the role that design and functionality play more explicit . I be grateful to colleague in both Houses for be so generous with their time on this issue . in particular , I thank again my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam for his tireless work , which be crucial in enable the creation of an alternative and mutually satisfactory package of amendment . we will disagree to Lords amendment 17 , 20 , 22 and 81 and replace they with amendment that make it explicit that provider be require to assess the impact that service design , functionality and other feature have on the risk of harm to child . on Report , my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) raise animal abuse on the internet and ask how we might address such harmful content . I be pleased that the change we have since make to the Bill fully demonstrate the Government ' s commitment to tackle criminal activity relate to animal torture online . it be a cause that Baroness Merron have champion passionately . her amendment in the other place seek to require the Secretary of State to review certain offence and , depend on the review ' s outcome , to list they as priority offence in schedule 7 . to accelerate measure to tackle such content , the Government will remove clause 63 — the review clause — and instead immediately list section 4 ( 1 ) of the Animal Welfare Act 2006 as a priority offence . official at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have work closely with the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and be confident that the offence of unnecessary suffering will capture a broad swathe of behaviour . I hope the whole House will recognise our effort and those of Baroness Merron and support the amendment . you will be pleased to know , Mr Deputy Speaker , that I will conclude my remark . I express my gratitude to my esteemed colleague both here and in the other place for their continued and dedicated engagement with this complicated , complex Bill during the course of its parliamentary passage . I strongly believe that the Bill , in this form , strike the right balance in provide the strong possible protection for both adult and child online while protect freedom of expression . the Government have listen carefully to the view of member on both side of the House , stakeholder and member of the public . the amendment we have make during the Bill ' s progress through the Lords have far enhance its robust and world - lead legislative framework . it be groundbreake and will ensure the safety of generation to come . I ask Members of the House gather here to support the Government ' s position on the issue that I have speak about today . I call the Opposition spokesperson . before I address the amendment at hand , let I first put on record my thank for the incredible effort of our colleague in the other place . the Bill have go on a huge journey . the Government have repeatedly delay its passage , and even go to great effort to recommit part of the Bill to Committee in an attempt to remove important provision on legal but harmful content . for those reason alone , it be somewhat of a miracle that we have arrive at this moment , with a Bill that I be glad to say be in a much well place than when we last debate it here . that be thank to the tireless work of so many individual , charity and organisation , which have come together to coalesce around important provision that will have a positive impact on people ' s live online . today , we have the real privilege of be join by Ian Russell , Stuart Stephens , Emilia Stevens , Hollie Dance and Lisa Kenevan , who have all be impact by lose a child at the hand of online harm . I want to take a moment to give my most heartfelt thank to they all , and to the other family who have share their story , insight and experience with colleague and I as the Bill progress . today , in our thought be Archie , Isaac , Olly , Molly and all the other child who be take due to online harm . today , their legacy stand before we . we would not be here without you , so thank you . we also could not have arrive at this point without the determination of colleague in the other place , notably Baroness Kidron . colleague will know that she have be an extremely passionate , determined and effective voice for child throughout , and the Bill be strong today thank to her effort . more broadly , I hope that today ' s debate will be a significant and poignant moment for everyone who have be fight hard for more protection online for many year . it be good to see the Minister in his place . this be a complex bill , and have be the responsibility of many of his colleague since its introduction to Parliament . that be say , it will come as no surprise that Labour be pleased with some of the significant concession that the Government have make on the Bill . many stem from amendment the Opposition seek to make early on in the Bill ' s passage . although his Department ' s press release may try to claim a united front , let we be clear : the Bill have sadly fall victory to Tory infighting from day one . the conservative truly can not decide if they be the party of protect child or of free speech , when they should be the party of both . sadly , some colleague on the Government Benches have try to stop the Bill in its track entirely , but Labour have always support the need for it . we have work collaboratively with the Government and have long call for these important change . it be a welcome relief that the Government have finally listen . let I also be clear that the Bill go some way to regulate the online space in the past and present , but it make no effort to future - proof or anticipate emerge harm . the Labour party have repeatedly warn the Government of our concern that , thank to the Bill ' s focus on content rather than social medium platform ' business model , it may not go far enough . with that in mind , I echo call from across the House . will the Minister commit to a review of the legislation within five year of enactment , to ensure that it have meet their objective of make the UK the safe place in the world to be online ? my hon . friend be make an important speech . it be clear that the Government want to tackle harmful suicide and self - harm content . it be also clear that the Bill do not go far enough . do she agree that we should support Samaritans ' suggest way forward after implementation ? we need the Government to engage with people with live experience of suicide and self - harm , to ensure that the new legislation make thing well . if it be show — as we fear — not to go far enough , new legislative approach will be require to supplement and take it far , to ensure that the internet be as safe as possible for vulnerable people of all age . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . he have be a passionate advocate on that point , speak on behalf of his constituent Joe Nihill and his family for more protection in the Bill . it be clear that we need to know whether the legislation work in practice . parliamentary oversight of that be essential , so I echo call around the Chamber for that review . how will it take place ? what will it look like ? Parliament must have oversight , so that we know whether the legislation be fit for purpose . let I turn to the amendment . labour be particularly pleased to see the government follow the excellent lead of Baroness Kidron in the other place by address the alarming gap in child ' s risk assessment . those amendment will go some way to ensure that social medium platform have to carefully consider harmful content both create and disseminate to child when use their service . this be an incredibly important point . with online content be constantly available and drip - feed to child thank to autoplay feature , it be right that risk assessment relate to harm will have to include widespread provision . I wonder , however , if the Minister could explain one particular point . the Government ' s own press release have long laud the Bill as focus on child safety . indeed , in the Secretary of State ' s open letter in December to all parent , carer and guardian , she note : " the strong protection in this legislation be for child and young people . " I would therefore be interested to hear from the Minister exactly why the Bill make no specific reference to child ' s right , or more specifically the UN convention on the right of the child . it be the most widely ratify international human right treaty in history , yet it be miss from the Bill . I hope the Minister can clarify that for we all . it will come as no surprise that Labour be proud that the Government have concede on an important amendment that will see social medium site require to proactively remove animal torture content online . I first raise that issue in Committee more than a year ago . vile animal torture content have no place online or in society . I be proud that it be the Labour party that first recognise the alarming gap in the Government ' s early draft of the Bill . research from the RSPCA show that , in 2021 , there be 756 report of animal abuse on social medium , compare with 431 in 2020 and 157 in 2019 . we can all see that this horrific content be more widespread and common than we might initially have believe . thank to Labour party colleague in the other place , particularly Baroness Merron , it will no long be tolerate online . I be particularly proud to see the government adopt an amendment that represent a move towards a risk - base approach to service categorisation . this be an important point and a significant concession from the Government . along with many other , I repeatedly warn the Government that , by focus on a size versus risk approach to categorisation , the online safety regime be doom to fail . put simply , we could have be leave in a position where some of the most harmful website and platform , include 4chan and BitChute , which regularly host and promote far right , antisemitic content , slip through the crack of the legislation . none of we want that to happen , but in May 2022 the then Minister choose not to accept a cross - party amendment in Committee that could have resolve the issue more than a year ago . we be pleased to see progress , and thank colleague in the other place for see sense , but that approach highlight the Government ' s wide strategy for online safety : one base on delay and indecision . if we need more proof , we only have to turn to the Government ' s approach to allow researcher access to datum relate to the online safety regime . labour welcome small government amendment in the other place on this point , but there be real - world consequence if the government do not consider improve level of transparency . other jurisdiction across the globe be look at strengthen their datum transparency provision because they recognise that regulator such as Ofcom need academic and civil society to have sight of datum in the most complex of case . in Australia and Canada , there be real progress . our friend across the pond in the USA have recently sign a deal with the EU that will see they commit to work together on researcher access to datum . the Secretary of State talk a good game about our world - lead university and research environment , and claim that she want the UK to be a leader , yet inaction be put our country and our homegrown talent pool at a disadvantage . let we be clear : access to datum go far than academic . in the last month , Elon Musk have seek to sue the Centre for counter Digital Hate and the Anti - Defamation League , organisation fill to the brim with brilliant british research excellence . I recognise that the Government have make a loose commitment to go far in future legislation , but that have not be formally outline . I sincerely hope that the promise make to bereaved parent about further progress in the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill be keep . I would be grateful for some reassurance from the Minister on that point . labour have long campaign for strong protection to keep people — both child and adult — safe online . the Bill have make remarkable progress , thank to our colleague in the other place come together and genuinely put people ' s priority over party politic and political gain . labour have always support an online safety regime , and have seek to work with the government while raise valid concern carefully throughout . we all want to keep people safe and there be broad consensus that social medium company have fail to regulate themselves . labour be proud of the change it have develop and push on , but this be not the end . we will continue to push the Government to deliver this regime in good time and to ensure that it be review regularly and have appropriate parliamentary oversight . after all , child and adult across the UK deserve , as a first priority , to be keep safe . the Minister know we will be closely watch . rise — I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome the return of the Online Safety Bill from its exhaustive consideration in the other place . as the Minister know , this vital legislation kick off several year ago under the leadership of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , with the ambitious aim of make the UK the safe place in the world to go online . while other country pick at the edge of that , we be the first place in the world to set ourselves such an ambitious task . the legislation be mammoth in size and globally significant in scope . its delivery have be long - wind and I be so pleased that we have get to where we be now . as one of the Ministers who carry the baton for this legislation for around 19 month , I understand the balance to be strike between freedom of speech campaigner , charity and the large pressure from the platform to get this right . I commend my hon . friend for her remark . may I point out that there be a provision in european legislation — I speak as Chairman of the European Scrutiny Committee — call the data service protection arrangement ? they have nothing to compare with what we have in the Bill . that demonstrate the fact that when we legislate for ourselves we can get it right . that be something people ought to bear in mind . my hon . friend be absolutely right to point that out . much of the european legislation on this be take from our own draft legislation , but have not go anywhere near as far in the protection it offer . we know that the internet be magnificent and life change in so many way , but that the dark corner present such a serious concern for child and score of other vulnerable people . I associate myself with the comment of the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) on the child protection campaigner who have work so incredibly hard on this issue , particularly those who have experience the unimaginable tragedy of lose child as a result of what they have see in the online world . to turn an unspeakable tragedy of that nature into a campaign to save the life of other be the ultimate thing to do , and they deserve our massive thank and gratitude . I be also grateful to so many of our noble colleague who have shape the Bill use their unique knowledge and expertise . I would like to mention a few of they and welcome the change they bring , but also thank the Minister and the Government for accept so many of the challenge they bring forward and adapt they into the Bill . we all owe a massive debt of gratitude to Baroness Kidron for her tireless campaign for child ' s protection . a child ' s safety stalwart and pioneer for many year , virtually no one else know more about this vital issue . it be absolutely right that the cornerstone and priority of the Bill must be to protect child . the Minister mention that the statistic be absolutely horrible and disturbing . that be why it be important that the Secretary of State will now be able to require provider to retain datum relate to child sexual exploitation and abuse , ensure that law enforcement do not have one hand tie behind its back when it come to investigate these terrible crime . I also welcome the commitment to the new power give to Ofcom and the expectation of provider regard access to content and information in the terrible event of the death of a child . the tragic suicide of Molly Russell , the long and valiant battle of her dad , Ian , to get access to the social medium content that play such a key role in it , and the delay that bring to the inquest , be the only example we need of why this be absolutely the right thing to do . I know Baroness Kidron play a big part in that , as do my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sajid Javid ) . I be still concerned that there be not enough protection for vulnerable adult or for when people reach the cliff - edge of the age of 18 . People of all age need protection from extremely harmful content online . I be still not 100 % convince that user empowerment tool will provide that , but I look forward to be prove wrong . I welcome the news that Ofcom be now require to produce guidance set out how company can tackle online violence against woman and girl and demonstrate good practice . I be thankful to the former Equalities Minister , Baroness Morgan of Cotes , for her work on that . it be a vital piece of the puzzle that be miss from the original Bill , which do not specifically mention woman or girl at all as far as I can remember . it be important to stay faithful to the original thread of the Bill . to futureproof it , it have to be about system and process , rather than specific threat , but the simple fact be that the online world be so much more hostile for woman . for black woman , it be even bad . illegal activity such as stalking and harassment be a daily occurrence for so many woman and girl online . over one in 10 woman in England have experience online violence and three in 10 have witness it . we also know that woman and girl be disproportionately affect by the abuse of intimate image and the sharing of deepfake , so it be welcome that those will become an offence . I also welcome that control and coercive behaviour , which have be make a recognise offence in real life , will now be list as a priority offence online . that be something else the Government should take pride in . I thank Baroness Merron for bring animal welfare into the scope of the Bill . all in - scope platform will have proactive duty to tackle content amount to the offence of cause unnecessary suffering of animal . I thank Ministers for take that on board . anyone who victimise being small and weak than themselves , whether child or animal , be the most despicable kind of coward . it show the level of depravity in part of the online world that the act of hurt animal for pleasure be even a thing . a recent BBC story uncover the torture of baby monkey in Indonesia . the fact that individual in the UK and the US be profit from that , and that it be share on platform like Facebook be horrify . in the brief time leave available to I , I must admit to still be a bit confused over the Government ' s stance on end - to - end encryption . it sound like the Minister have acknowledge that there be no sufficiently accurate and privacy - preserve technology currently in existence , and that the last resort power would only come into effect once the technology be there . technically , that mean the Government have not move on the requirement of Ofcom to use last resort power . many security expert believe it could be many year before any such technology be develop , if ever , and that worry I . I be , of course , very supportive of protect user privacy , but it be also fundamentally right that terrorism or child sexual exploitation ring should not be able to proliferate unhindered on these channel . the right to privacy must be trump by the need to stop event that could lead to mass death and the harm of innocent adult and child . as my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) say , that be also against their term of service . I would therefore welcome it if the Minister be to make a couple of comment on that . I also welcome the change bring forward by Baroness Morgan of Cotes on the categorisation of harm . I , too , have be one of the long - stand voice over successive stage of the Bill say that a platform ' s size should not be the only measure of harm . clearly , massive platform , by definition of their reach , have huge potential to spread harmful content , but we know that online platform can go viral overnight . we know there be some small but incredibly pernicious platform out there . surely the harmful content on a site should be the definer of how harmful it be , not just its size . I welcome the increase flexibility for the Secretary of State to set a threshold base on the number of user , or the functionality offer , or both . I would love to know a little more about how that would work in practice . we be the first country in the world to set out the ambitious target of comprehensive online safety legislation . since then , so much time have pass . other country and the EU have legislate while we have refine and in the meantime so much harm have be able to proliferate . we now need to get this do . we be so close to get this legislation over the finish line . can the Minister assure I that we be send out a very clear message to provider that they must start their work now ? they must not necessarily wait for this legislation to be in place because people be suffer while the delay happen . I put on record my thank to member of this House and the other place who have work so hard to get the legislation into such a great state , and to Ministers who have listen very carefully to all their suggestion and expertise . finally , I put on record my thank to the incredible Government official . I be responsible for shepherd the Bill for a mere 19 month . it nearly finish I off , but some official have be involve in it right from the beginning . they deserve our enormous gratitude for everything they have do . rise — order . thirteen member wish to participate in the debate . the wind - up speech will need to start shortly before 5 pm , and the Minister have indicate that he have quite a bit to say . I therefore suggest a self - deny ordinance of between seven and eight minute follow the speech from the Scottish National party spokesman . it be up to colleague , because we have not impose a mandatory time limit at this stage , but if member be sensible and not greedy , everyone should get in with no difficulty . it be a pleasure to speak during what I hope be the final stage of the Bill . give that nearly all the Bills on which I have speak up to now have be money Bills , this business of " come back from the Lords " and scrutinise Lords amendment have not be part of my experience , so if I get anything wrong , I apologise . like other member , I want to begin by thank a number of people and organisation , include the Mental Health Foundation , Carnegie UK , the Internet Watch Foundation , the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and two researcher for the SNP , Aaron Lukas and Josh Simmonds - Upton , for all their work , advice , knowledge and wisdom . I also join the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) and for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) in thank the family involve for the huge amount of time and energy — and the huge amount of themselves — that they have have to pour into the process in order to secure these change . this be the beginning of the culmination of all their hard work . it will make a difference today , and it will make a difference when the Bill be enact . member in all part of the House will do what we can to continue to scrutinise its operation to ensure that it work as intend , to ensure that child be keep as safe as possible online , and to ensure that Ofcom use these power to persuade platform to provide the information that they will be require to provide follow the death of a child about that child ' s use of social medium . the Bill be about keep people safe . it be a different Bill from the one that begin its parliamentary journey , I think , more than two year ago . I have see various minister lead from the Dispatch Box during that time , but the voice around the Chamber have be consistent , from the Conservative , Labour and SNP Benches . all the member who have speak have agree that we want the internet to be a safe place . I be extremely glad that the Government have make so many concession that the Opposition party call for . I congratulate the hon . member for Pontypridd on the inclusion of violence against woman and girl in the Bill . she champion that in Committee , and I be glad that the Government have make the change . another change that the Government have make relate to small high - risk platform . back in May or June last year I table amendment 80 , 81 and 82 , which call for that categorisation to be change so that it be not base just on the number of user . I think it be the hon . member for Gosport who mention 4chan , and I have mention Kiwi Farms a number of time in the Chamber . such organisation can not be allow to get away with horrific , vile content that encourage violence . they can not be allow a low bar just because they have a small number of user . the National Risk Register produce by the Cabinet Office — great bedtime read which I thoroughly recommend — state that both the risk and the likelihood of harm and the number of people on whom it will have an impact should be take into account before a decision be make . it be therefore entirely sensible for the Government to take into account both the number of user , when it be a significant number , and the extremely high risk of harm cause by some of these provider . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech , but it be critical to understand that this be not just about wickedness that would have take place anyway but be now take place on the internet ; it be about the internet catalyse and exaggerate that wickedness , and spawn and encourage all kind of malevolence . we have a big responsibility in this place to regulate , control and indeed stop this , and the hon . Lady be right to emphasise that . the right hon . Gentleman be entirely correct . whether it involve a particularly right - wing cause or antisemitism — or , indeed , dieting content that drag people into something more radical in relation to eat disorder — the bubble mentality create by these algorithm massively increase the risk of radicalisation , and we therefore have an increase duty to protect people . as I have say , I be pleased to see the positive change that have be make as a result of opposition pressure and the uncompromise effort of those in the House of Lords , especially Baroness Kidron , who have be nothing short of tenacious . throughout the time in which we have be discuss the Bill , I have speak to member of both Houses about it , and it have be very unusual to come across anyone who know what they be talk about , and , in particular , have the incredible depth of knowledge , understanding and wisdom show by Baroness Kidron . I be able to speak to she as someone who practically grow up on the internet — we have it at home when I be eight — but she know far more about it than I do . I be extremely pleased that the Government have work with she to improve the Bill , and have accept that she have a huge breadth of knowledge . she manage to do what we do not quite manage to do in this House , although hopefully we lay the foundation . I want to refer to a number of point that be mention by the Minister and be also mention in the letter that the Government provide relate to the Lords amendment . algorithmic scrutiny be incredibly important , and I , along with other member , have raise it a number of time — again , in connection with concern about radicalisation . some organisation have be do well thing recently . for instance , someone who search for something may begin to go down a rabbit hole . some company be now put up a flag , for instance a video , suggest that user be go down a dark hole and should look at something a bit light , and direct they away from the autoplaying of the more radical content . if all organisation , or at least a significant number — particularly those with high traffic — can be encourage to take such action rather than allow people to be drive to more extreme content , that will be a positive step . I be pleased to hear about the upcoming researcher access report , and about the report on app store . I ask a previous Minister about app store a year or so ago , and the Minister say that they be not include , and that be the end of it . give the risk that be pose by app store , the fact that they be not categorise as user - to - user content concern I greatly . someone who want to put something on an Apple app store have to jump through Apple ' s hoop . the content be not own by the app store , and the same apply to some of the material on the PlayStation store . it be own by the person who create the content , and it be therefore user - to - user content . in some case , it be create by one individual . there be no ongoing review of that . age - rating be another issue : app store choose whatever age they happen to decide be the most important . some of the date app , such as match . com , have be active in that regard , and have make it clear that their platform be not for under - 16s or under - 18 , while the app store have rate the content as be for a young age than the user ' actual age . that be of concern , especially if the company be try to improve age - rating . on the subject of age rating , I be pleased to see more in the Bill about age assurance and the framework . I be particularly pleased to see what be go to happen in relation to try to stop child be able to access pornography . that be incredibly important but it have be miss from the Bill . I understand that Baroness Floella Benjamin have do a huge amount of work on push this forward and ensure that parliamentarian be brief on it , and I thank she for the work that she have do . human trafficking have also be include . again , that be something that we push for , and I be glad to see that it have be put on the face of the Bill . I want to talk briefly about the review mechanism , then I will go on to talk about end - to - end encryption . I be still concerned that the review mechanism be not strong enough . we have push to have a parliamentary Committee convene , for example , to review this legislation . this be the fast moving area of life . thing be change so dramatically . how many people in here have even hear of chatgpt a year and a half ago ? how many people have use a virtual reality headset ? how many people have access Rec Room of any of the other VR system ? I understand that the Government have genuinely try their good to make the Bill as future - proof as possible , but we have no parliamentary scrutiny mechanism write in . I be not try to undermine the work of the Committee on this — I think it be incredibly important — but Select Committees be busy and they have no legislative power in this regard . if the Government have write in a review , that would have be incredibly helpful . the hon . Lady be make a very good speech . when I first come to this House , which be rather a long time ago now , there be a Companies Act every year , because company law be change at the time , as be the nature of post - war capitalism . it seem to I that there be a strong argument for an annual Act on the handling and management of the internet . what she be say be exactly right , and that be probably where we will end up . I completely support the right hon . member ' s point — I would love to see this happen on an annual basis . I be sure that the Ministers who have shepherd the Bill through would be terrify of that , and that the Government team sit over there be probably quake in their boot at the suggestion , but give how fast this move , I think that this would be incredibly important . the Government ' s record on post - implementation review of legislation be pretty shoddy . if you ask Government Departments what percentage of legislation they have put through a post - implementation review in the timeline they be suppose to , they will say that it be very small . some Departments be a bit well than other , but give the number of reshuffle there have be , some do not even know which piece of legislation they be suppose to be post - implementation reviewing . I be concerned that this legislation will get lose , and that there be no legislative back - up to any of the mechanism for review it . the Minister have say that it will be keep under review , but can we have some sort of governmental commitment that an actual review will take place , and that legislation will be forthcoming if necessary , to ensure that the implementation of this Bill be carry out as intend ? we be not necessarily ask the Government to change it ; we be just ask they to cover all the thing that they intend it to cover . on end - to - end encryption , on child sexual exploitation and abuse material , and on the last resort provider — I have be consistent with every Minister I have speak to across the Dispatch Box and every time I have speak to hon . member about this — when there be any use of child sexual exploitation material or child sexual abuse material , we should be able to require the provider to find it . that absolutely trump privacy . the large increase in child sexual abuse material be in self - generate content . that be horrific . we be see a massive increase in that number . we need provider to be able to search — use the hash number that they can categorise image with , or however they want to do it — for people who be share this material in order to allow the authority to arrest they and put they behind bar so that they can not cause any more harm to child . that be more important than any privacy concern . although Ministers have not put it in the Bill until this point , they have , to their credit , be clear that that be more important than any privacy concern , and that protect child trump those concern when it come to abuse material and exploitation . I be glad to see that that be now write into the Bill ; it be important that it be not just state at the Dispatch Box , even though it be mention by a number of member . I have speak about the huge number of online harm , the huge number of issue with access the internet and the huge number of concern we have for the future , but I also need to say that the internet be a wonderful place . it be absolutely great to be able to go and play online game . it be great to be able to have a community of people that I can speak to online and have a conversation with . it be good that the Government have include in some of the risk the issue about platform where adult can contact child , for example . that be another thing I address during the course of the amendment . it be great that people can find their tribe online in a way that they perhaps can not do in real life . it be brilliant that people can have a try - out at be someone else online . that be not about try to confuse or upset people or about catfishe . sometimes we need to have a wee bit of self - exploration in order to try and work out who we be . there be so many positive aspect of the internet , but we need to ensure that child and the most vulnerable adult in particular be keep safe online . this be not the perfect Bill . this be not necessarily the Bill that I would have like to see . it have go through so many change and iteration over the time we have be try to scrutinise it that some of it have go back to what it previously look like , except the harmful content in relation to adult . I be pleased that the internet will be a safe place for our child and our child ' s child . I be pleased that they will have more protection online . I have an amount of faith and cautious optimism in the work of Ofcom , because of how fast it have be scale up and because of the incredible people it have employ to work there — they really know what they be talk about . I wish the Government and Ofcom every success in ensure that the Bill be embed and ensure that the internet be as safe as possible . I would just really like a commitment from the Minister on ensure that this legislation be keep under proper review and that legislative change will be make , should we identify any loophole . the draft Bill be publish in April 2021 , so it be fantastic that we be now discuss its final stage after it have go through its process in the House of Lords . it go through pre - legislative scrutiny , then it be introduce here , commit to the Bill Committee , recommit , come back to the House , go to the Lords and come back again . I do not think any Bill have have as much scrutiny and debate over such a long period of time as this one have have . hon . member have disagree on it from time to time , but the spirit and motivation at every stage have never be political ; it have be about try to make the Bill the good it can possibly be . we have end up with a process that have see it get well through all its stage . pick up on the comment of the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) and other , the question of ongoing scrutiny of the regime be an important one . in the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee — the Joint Committee that I chair — there be a recommendation that there should be a post - legislative scrutiny Committee or a new Joint Committee , perhaps for a limited period . the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee benefit enormously from be a Committee of both Houses . Baroness Kidron have rightly be mention by Members today and she be watch we today from the Gallery . she be keep her scrutiny of the passage of the Bill go from her position of advantage in the Gallery . we have discuss a number of new technology during the Bill ' s passage that be not discuss at all on Second Reading because they be not live , include the metaverse and large language model . we be reassure that the Bill be futureproof , but we will not know until we come across such thing . ongoing scrutiny of the regime , the code of practice and Ofcom ' s risk register be more than any one Select Committee can do . the Government have previously speak favourably of the idea of post - legislative scrutiny , and it would be good if the Minister could say whether that be still under consideration . my hon . friend make a powerful point , echo the comment of member on both side of the House . he be absolutely right that , as well as the scale and character of internet harm , their dynamism be a feature that government must take seriously . the problem , it seem to I , be that the pace of technological change , in this area and in other , do not fit easily with the thoroughness of the democratic legislative process ; we tend to want to do thing at length , because we want to scrutinise they properly , and that take time . how do my hon . friend square that in his own mind , and what would he recommend to the Government ? the length of the process we have go through on this Bill be a good thing , because we have end up with probably the most comprehensive legislation in the world . we have a regulator with more power , and more power to sanction , than anywhere else . it be important to get that right . a lot of the regulation be principle - base . it be about the regulation of user - to - user service , whereby people share thing with each other through an intermediary service . technology will develop , but those principle will underpin a lot of it . there will be specific case where we need to think about whether the regulatory oversight work in a metaverse environment in which we be deal with harm create by speech that have no footprint . how do we monitor and scrutinise that ? one of the hard challenge could be make sure that company continue to use appropriate technology to identify and mitigate harm on their platform . the problem we have have with the regime to date be that we have rely on self - reporting from the technology company on what be or be not possible . indeed , the debate about end - to - end encryption be another example . the company be say that , if they share too much datum , there be a danger that it will break encryption , but they will not say what datum they gather or how they use it . for example , they will not say how they identify illegal use of their platform . can they see the message that people have send after they have send they ? they will not publicly acknowledge it , and they will not say what datum they gather and what trigger they could use to intervene , but the regulator will now have the right to see they . that principle of accountability and the power of the regulator to scrutinise be the two thing that make I confident that this will work , but we may need to make amendment because of new thing that we have not yet think about . in addition to the idea of annual scrutiny raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) , do my hon . friend think it would be a reasonably good idea for the Select Committee on Culture , Media and Sport to set up a Sub - Committee under its Standing Orders to keep any eye on this stuff ? my hon . friend be a great chairman of that Select Committee , and such a Sub - Committee would allow the annual monitoring of all the thing that could go wrong , and it could also try to keep up with the pace of change . when I chair the Digital , Culture , Media and Sport Committee , we set up a Sub - Committee to consider these issue and internet regulation . of course , the Sub - Committee have the same member . it be up to the Select Committee to determine how it structure itself and spend its time , but there be only so much that any one departmental Select Committee can do among its huge range of other responsibility . it might be worth think about a special Committee , draw on the power and knowledge of both Houses , but that be not a matter for the Bill . as my hon . friend know , it be a matter of amend the Standing Orders of the House , and the House must decide that it want to create such a Committee . I think it be something we should consider . we must make sure that encrypt service have proper transparency and accountability , and we must bring in skilled expert . member have talk about researcher access to the company ' datum and information , and it can not be a free - for - all ; there have to be a process by which a researcher apply to get privileged access to a company ' s information . indeed , as part of respond to Ofcom ' s risk register , a company could say that allow researcher access be one of the way it seek to ensure safe use of its platform , by seek the help of other to identify harm . there be nothing to stop Ofcom appoint many researcher . the Bill give Ofcom the power to delegate its authority and its power to outside expert researcher to investigate matter on its behalf . in my view , that would be a good thing for Ofcom to do , because it will not have all the expertise in - house . the power to appoint a skilled person to use the power of Ofcom exist within the Bill , and Ofcom should say that it intend to use that power widely . I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm that Ofcom have that power in the Bill . it be very kind of you to call I to speak , Mr Deputy Speaker . I apologise to your good self , to the Minister and to the House for arrive rather tardily . my daughter and her husband have be stay with I over the past few day . when I get up to make my wife and myself an early - morning cup of tea , I find my two grandchild sit in the kitchen with their iPads , which do not half bring home the danger . I look at they and think , " gosh , I hope there be security , because they be just little kid . " I worry about that kind of thing . as everyone have say , keep child safe be ever more important . the Bill ' s progress show some of the good aspect of this place and the other place work together to improve legislation . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) both mention that , and it have be encouraging to see how the Bill have come together . however , as other have say , it have take a long time and there have be a lot of delay . perhaps that be unavoidable , but it be regrettable . it have be difficult for the Government to get the Bill to where it be today , and the trouble be that the delay mean there will probably be more victim before the Bill be enact . we see before we a much - change Bill , and I thank the Lords for their 150 amendment . they have put in a lot of hard work , as other have say . the Secretary of State ' s power worry my party and I , and I wonder whether the Bill still fail to tackle harmful activity effectively . perhaps well thing could be do , but we be where we be . I welcome the addition of new offence , such as encourage self - harm and intimate image abuse . a future Bill might be need to set out the threshold for the prosecution of non - fatal self - harm . we may also need further work on the intent requirement for cyber - flashing , and on whether Ofcom can introduce such requirement . I be encourage by what we have hear from the Minister . we would also have like to see more movement on risk assessment , as term of service should be subject to a mandatory risk assessment . my party remain unconvinced that we have get to grip with the metaverse — this terrifying new thing that have come at we . I think there be work to be do on that , and we will see what happen in the future . as other have say , education be crucial . I hope that my grandchild , sit there with their iPads , have be tell as much as possible by their teacher , my daughter and my son - in - law about what to do and what not to do . that lead I on to the huge importance of the parent be able , where necessary , to intervene rapidly , because this have to be do damn quickly . if it look like they be go down a black hole , we want to stop that right away . a kid could see something horrid that could damage they for life — it could be that bad . once a child see something , they can not unsee it . this be not just about parental control ; we hope that the requirement on the company to do the risk assessment and on Ofcom to look at those will mean that those issue be stop before they even get to the point of require parental control . I hope that such an approach will make this safe by design when it begin to operate , rather than rely on have an active parent who be not work three job and therefore have time to moderate what their child be do online . the hon . Lady make an excellent point . let I just illustrate it by say that each of we in our childhood , when we be little — when we be four , five or six — see something that frighten we . oddly enough , we never forget that throughout the rest of life , do we ? that be what bad dream be make of . we should remember that point , which be why those be wise word indeed . finally , I shall try your excellent patience , Mr Deputy Speaker , with a few word about encryption , to which reference have be make . I commend the Government for their recognition of the danger that exist online and the inadequacy of current protection . however , regulation and enforcement must be base on clear evidence of well - define harm and must respect the right to privacy and free expression of those who use social medium legally and responsibly . on encryption , for the vast majority , privacy mean security . we have always to test that theory , but I think that be what most of we believe . if I pick it up right , the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) say that this should be revisit on a regular basis . perhaps the adviser that Ofcom will hire will address this sort of thing , but this be about constant vigilance , be it not ? let I put it on the record that my party would fundamentally oppose any attempt to undermine or weaken encryption . once again , I wish to thank all the member who have put together a good piece of legislation . in the spirit of generosity , let I say that the Government have try their very good on a tricky issue , and I give credit to those on both side of the House for this step in the right direction . this Bill may well have be with we since April 2021 and be subject to significant change , but it remain a Bill about keep people safe online and it remain groundbreake . I welcome it back after scrutiny in the Lords and join other in pay tribute to those who have campaign for social medium platform to release information follow the death of a child . I be pleased that some be able to be with we today to hear this debate and the commitment to that issue . this will never be a perfect Bill , but we must recognise that it be good enough and that we need to get it on to the statute book . the Minister have help by say clearly that this be not the endgame and that scrutiny will be inherent in the future of this legislation . I hope that he will heed the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , who encourage he to set up a bespoke Committee , which be one of the recommendation from the initial scrutiny of the Bill . I will confine my remark to the Government ' s Lords amendment 263 and those surround it , which insert the amendment I table on report into the Bill . they relate to the sharing of intimate image online , include deepfake , without consent . I wish wholeheartedly to say thank you to the Minister , who always listen intently , to the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , who have recently join he , and to the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology . they have all not only listen to the argument on intimate image abuse , but act . the change today be no less a testament to their commitment to this Bill than any other area . focus on child ' s safety be very important , but the safety of adult online be also important . we start on a journey to address intimate image abuse way back in 2015 , with the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015 , and we have learn to provide that protection much well , mostly through the work of the Law Commission and its report on how we should be tackle intimate image abuse online . the Bill , as it have be amend , have be change fundamentally on the treatment of intimate image abuse , in line with the debate on report in this place . that have create four new offence . the base offence remove the idea of intent to cause distress entirely and rely only on whether there be consent from the person appear in the image . two more serious offence do include intent , with one be send an image with intent to cause alarm and distress . we also now have the offence of threaten to share an image , which will protect people from potential blackmail , particularly from an abusive partner . that will make a huge difference for victim , who be still overwhelmingly woman . in his closing comment , will the Minister address the gap that still exist , particularly around the issue of the image themselves , which , because of the scope of the Bill , will not become illegal ? he and his colleague have indicate that more legislation might be in the planning stage to address those particular recommendation by the Law Commission . perhaps he could also comment on something that the Revenge Porn Helpline be increasingly be tell by victim , which be that online platform will not remove an image even though it may have be post illegally , and that will not change in the future . perhaps he can give I and those victim who might be listen today some comfort that either there be way of address that matter now or that he will address it in the very near future . as we reflect on the Bill today , it be important to say that it have be improve as it have progress through the Parliament . that be due in no small measure to member from across the party — both here and in the other place — who have engage very collegiately , and to individual and group outside this place , particularly the Samaritans and those who have live experience of the consequence of the danger of the internet . People from my constituency have also be involve , include the family of Joe Nihill , whom I have mention previously . at the age of 23 , Joe take his own life after access dangerous suicide - relate online content . his mother , Catherine , and sister - in - law , Melanie , have bravely campaign to use the Online Safety Bill as an opportunity to ensure that what happen to Joe so tragically do not happen to other . I thank the Minister and his team for meet Joe ' s mother , his sister - in - law and I , and for listen to what we have to say . I recognise that , as a result , the Bill have improve , in particular with the Government ' s acceptance of Lords amendment 391 , which be first table by Baroness Morgan of Cotes . it be welcome that the Government have accept the amendment , which will enable platform to be place in category 1 base on their functionality , even if they do not have a large reach . that be important , because some of the bad and most dangerous online suicide and self - harm relate material appear on small platform rather than the large one . I also welcome the fact that the Bill create a new communication offence of encourage or assist self - harm and make such content a further priority for action , which be important . the Bill provide an historic opportunity to ensure that tackle suicide and self - harm relate online content do not end with this Bill become law . I urge the Government to listen very carefully to what the Samaritans have say . as my hon . friend the shadow Minister ask , will the Government commit to a review of the legislation to ensure that it have meet the objective of make our country the safe place in the world in which to go online ? importantly , can the Government confirm when the consultation on the new offence of encourage or assist self - harm will take place ? as I mention in an intervention , it be clear that the Government want to tackle harmful suicide and self - harm relate content with the Bill , but , as we have hear throughout our discussion , the measure do not go far enough . the Samaritans be correct to say that the Bill represent a welcome advance and that it have improve recently , but it still do not go far enough in relation to dangerous suicide and self - harm online content . how will the Government engage with people who have live experience — people such as Melanie and Catherine — to ensure that the new law make thing well ? nobody want the implementation of the Bill to be the end of the matter . we must redouble our effort to make the internet as safe a place as possible , reflect on the experience of my constituent , Joe Nihill and his family , and understand that there be a lot of dangerous suicide and self - harm relate content out there . we be talk about people who exploit the vulnerable , regardless of their age . I urge all those who be follow the progress of the Bill and who look at this issue not to make the mistake of think that when we talk about dangerous online suicide and self - harm relate content , it be somehow about freedom of speech . it be about protect people . when we talk about dangerous online material relate to suicide and self - harm , it be not a freedom of speech issue ; it be an issue of protect people . have the hon . Gentleman note , I hope with satisfaction , that the Government yesterday and today have make statement on a strategy for prevent suicide nationally , and that what he be say — which I agree with — will be implement ? it have just be announce , it be very important and it be relate to the Bill . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . it be important that the Government have announce a strategy : it be part and parcel of the ongoing work that be so necessary when we consider the prevalence of suicide as the lead cause of death among young man and woman . it be a scourge across society . People should not make the mistake of think that the internet merely showcase awful thing . the internet have be use as a tool by exploitative and sometimes disturb individual to create more misery and more instance of awful thing happen , and to lead other down a dangerous path that sometimes end , sadly , in they take their own life . I thank the Minister for his engagement with my constituent , and the shadow Minister for what she have do . I also thank Baroness Kidron , Baroness Morgan and hon . member who have engage with this issue . I urge the Government to see the Bill not as the end when it come to tackle dangerous online content relate to suicide and self - harm , but as part of an important ongoing journey that we all work on together . I rise to speak to Lords amendment 231 on visible identity verification . I will not press the amendment to a vote . I have have several discussion with Ministers and the Secretary of State , and I be grateful for their time . I will explain a little more . the dry nature of the amendment mask the fact that the issue of identity verification — or lack of it — affect million of people around the country . we increasingly live our life online , so the public be able to know who be or be not a real person online be a key part of the UK be the safe the place to be on the internet , which be the Bill ' s ambition . unfortunately , too often it feel as though we have to wade through nutter , bot , fake account and other nastie before come to a real person we want to hear from . the Bill take huge step to empower user to change that , but there be more to do . hon . member will recall that I have campaign for year to tackle anonymous abuse . I thank Stroud constituent , celebrity and parent who have bring to I sad story that I have convey to the House involve abuse about the death of baby and child and about disabled child . that be absolutely awful . alongside a smart Stroud constituent and clean up the internet — a fantastic organisation — we have fight and argue for social medium user to have the option of be verify online ; for they to be able to follow and be follow only by verified account , if that be what they want ; and , crucially , to make it clear who be and be not verify online . People can still be Princess Unicorn if they want , but at the back end , their address and detail can be hold , and that will give confidence . my hon . friend be make a powerful case . Umberto Eco , the italian philosopher , describe the internet as the empire of imbecile , and much of social medium be indeed imbecilic — but it be much bad than that . my hon . friend be right that the internet provide a hiding place for the kind of malevolence she have describe . do she agree that the critical thing be for the Government to look again at the responsibility of those who publish this material ? if it be write material , the publisher would have a legal liability . that be not true of internet company . be that a way forward ? I be interested in that intervention , but I fear it would lead we into a very long discussion and I want to keep my comment focus on my amendment . however , it would be interesting to hear from the Minister in response to that point , because it be a huge topic for debate . on the point about whether someone be real or not real online , I believe passionately that not only famous people or those who can afford it should be able to show that they be a real and verified person . I say , " roll out the blue tick . " — or the equivalent — and not just to make the social medium perform more money ; as we have see , we need it as a safety mechanism and a personal responsibility mechanism . all the evidence and endless polling show that the public want to know who be and who be not real online , and it do not take rocket science to understand why . deal with faceless , anonymous account be very scary and anonymous abuser be terrify . parent be worried that they do not know who their child be speak to , and anonymous , unverified account can not be trace if detail be not hold . that be before we get to how visible verification can help to tackle fraud . we should empower people to avoid fake account . we know that people be less likely to engage with an unverified account , and it would make it easy to catch scammer . Fraud be the most common form of crime in 2022 , with 41 % of all crime be fraud , 23 % of all report fraud be initiate on social medium and 80 % of fraud be cyber - related . we can imagine just how fantastically clever the scam will become through AI . since we start this process , tech company have recognise the value of identity verification to the public , so much so that they now sell it on Twitter as blue tick , and the Government understand the benefit of identity verification option . the Government have do a huge amount of work on that . I thank they for agree to two of the three pillar of my campaign , and I believe we can get there on visibility ; I know from discussion with Government that Ofcom will be look carefully at that . make thing simple for social medium user be incredibly important . for the user verification provision in this Bill to fulfil their potential and prevent harm , include illegal harm , we believe that user need to be able to see who be and be not verify — that is , who be a real person — and all the evidence say that that be what the public want . while Ministers in this place and the other place have resist put visible verification on the face of the Bill , I be grateful to the Government for their work on this . after a lot of to - ing and fro - ing , we be reassure that the Bill as now word give Ofcom the power to do what the public want and what we be suggest through code and guidance . we hope that Ofcom will consider the role of anonymous , inauthentic and non - verify account as it prepare its register of risk relate to illegal content and in its risk profile . I pay tribute to the way my hon . friend have focus on this issue through so many month and year . do she agree that , in light of the assurance that she have have from the Minister , this be just the sort of issue that either a stand - alone committee or some kind of scrutiny group could keep an eye on ? if those guideline do not work as the Minister be hope , the action she have suggest will need to be take . absolutely . give the fast nature of social medium and the tech world , and how quickly they adapt — often for their own benefit , sadly — I think that a committee with that focus could work . to wrap up , I thank mp from across the House , and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your grace today . I have have help from my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) in particular , for which I be very grateful . in the other place , Lord Clement - Jones , Lord Stevenson , Baroness Morgan , Baroness Fall and Baroness Wyld have all be absolutely excellent in push through these matter . I look forward to hear what the Minister say , and thank everybody for their time . as other have do , I welcome the considerable progress make on the Bill in the other place , both in the detailed scrutiny that it have receive from noble Lords , who have take a consistent and expert interest in it , and in the positive and consensual tone adopt by Opposition Front Benchers and , crucially , by Ministers . it seem that there be very few member of this House who have not have ministerial responsibility for the Bill at some point in what have be an extraordinarily extensive relay race as it have move through its legislative stage . the anchor leg — the hard bit in such a Bill — have be run with dedication and skill by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , who deserve all the praise that she will get for hold the baton as we cross the parliamentary finish line , as I hope we be close to do . I have be an advocate of humility in the way in which we all approach this legislation . it be genuinely difficult and novel territory . in general , I think that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and her Ministers — the noble Lord Parkinson and , of course , the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) — have be willing to change their mind when it be right to do so , and the Bill be well for it . like other who have deal with they , I also thank the official , some of whom sit in the Box , some of whom do not . they have dedicate — as I suspect they would see it — most of their life to the generation of the Bill , and we be grateful to they for their commitment . of course , as other have say , none of this mean that the Bill be perfect ; frankly , it be never go to be . nor do it mean that when we pass the Bill , the job be do . we will then pass the baton to Ofcom , which will have a large amount of further work to do . however , we now need to finalise the legislative phase of this work after many year of consideration . for that reason , I welcome in particular what I think be sensible compromise on two significant issue that have yet to be resolve : first , the content of child ' s risk assessment , and secondly , the categorisation process . I hope that the House will bear with I while I consider those in detail , which we have not yet do , start with Lords amendment 17 , 20 and 22 , and Lords amendment 81 in relation to search , as well as the Government amendment in lieu of they . those Lords amendment insert harmful " feature , functionality or behaviour " into the list of matter that should be consider in the child ' s risk assessment process and in the meeting of the safety duty , to add to the harm arise from the intrinsic nature of content itself — that be an important change . as other have do , I pay great tribute to the noble Baroness Kidron , who have invariably be the drive force behind so many of the positive enhancement to child ' s online safety that the Bill will bring . she have promote this enhancement , too . as she say , it be right to recognise and reflect in the legislation that a child ' s online experience can be harmful not just as a result of the harm an individual piece of content can cause , but in the way that content be select and present to that child — in other word , the way in which the service be design to operate . as she know , however , I part company with the Lords amendment in the breadth of the language use , particularly the word " behaviour " . throughout our consideration of the Bill , I have take the view that we should be less interested in pass legislation that sound good and more interested in pass legislation that work . we need the regulator to be able to encourage and enforce improvement in online safety effectively . that mean ask the online platform to address the harm that it be within their power to address , and to relate clearly the design or operation of the system that they have put in place . the difficulty with the wording of the Lords amendment be that they bring into the ambit of the legislation behaviour that be not necessarily enable or create by the design or operation of the service . the language use be " feature , functionality or behaviour ( include those enable or create by the design or operation of the service ) that be harmful to child " — in other word , not limit to those that be enable or create by the service . it be a step too far to make platform accountable for all behaviour that be harmful to child without the clarity of that link to what the platform have itself do . for that reason , I can not support those Lords amendment . however , the Government have propose a sensible alternative approach in their amendment in lieu , particularly in relation to Lords amendment 17 and Lords amendment 81 , which relate to search service . the Government amendment in lieu capture the central point that design of a service can lead to harm and require a service to assess that as part of the child ' s risk assessment process . that be a significant expansion of a service ' s responsibility in the risk assessment process which reflect not just ongoing concern about type of harm that be not adequately capture in the Bill so far but the positive move we have all seek to make towards safety by design as an important preventive concept in online safety . I also think it be important , give the potential scale of this expand responsibility , to make clear that the concept of proportionality apply to a service ' s approach to this element of assessment and mitigation of risk , as it do throughout the Bill , and I hope the Minister will be able to do that when he wind up the debate . my right hon . and learn Friend have mention Ofcom several time . I would like to ask his opinion as to whether there should be , if there be not already , a special provision for a report by Ofcom on its own involvement in these process during the course of its annual report every year , to be sure that we know that Ofcom be do its job . in Parliament , we know what Select Committees be do . the question be , what be Ofcom do on a continuous basis ? my hon . friend make a fair point . one difficult part of our legislative journey with the Bill be to get right , in so far as we can , the balance between what the regulator should take responsibility for , what Ministers should take responsibility for and what the legislature — this Parliament — should take responsibility for . we may not have get that exactly right yet . on my hon . friend ' s specific point , my understanding be that because Ofcom must report to Parliament in any event , it will certainly be Ofcom ' s intention to report back on this . it will be quite a large slice of what Ofcom do from this point onwards , so it would be remarkable if it do not , but I think we will have to return to the point that my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) and other have make about the nature of parliamentary scrutiny that be then require to ensure that we be all on top of this progress as it develop . I be talk about what I would like my hon . friend the Minister to say when he wind up the debate . I know he will not have a huge amount of time to do so , but he might also confirm that the balance duty in relation to freedom of speech and privacy , for example , continue to apply to the fulfilment of the safety duty in this context as well . that would be helpful . the Government amendment in lieu do not replicate the reference to design in the safety duty themselves , but I do not see that as problematic because , as I understand it , the risk identify in the risk assessment process , which will now include design risk , feed through to and give rise to the safety duty , so that if a design risk be identify in the risk assessment , a service be require to mitigate and address it . again , I would be grateful if the Minister confirm that . we should also recognise that Government amendment ( b ) in lieu of Lords amendment 17 and Government amendment ( b ) and ( c ) in lieu of Lords amendment 81 specifically require consideration of " functionality or other feature of the service that affect how much child use the service " as far as I can tell , that introduce consideration of design - relate addiction — recognisable to many parent ; it can not just be I — into the assessment process . these change reflect the reality of how online harm to child manifest itself , and the Government be to be congratulate on include they , although , as I say , the Government and , subsequently , Ofcom will need to be clear about what these new expectation mean in practical term for a platform consider its risk assessment process and seek to comply with its safety duty . I now turn to the amendment deal with the categorisation process , which be Lords amendment 391 and the Government amendment arise from it . lord amendment 391 would allow Ofcom to designate a service as a category 1 service , with the additional expectation and responsibility that bring , if it be of a certain scale or if it have certain functionality , rather than both be require as be the case in the original Bill . the effect of the original drafting be , in essence , that only big platform could be category 1 platform and that big platform be bind to be category 1 platform . that give rise to two problem that , as my hon . friend the Minister know , we have discuss before . the first problem be that small platform where highly harmful material be to be find , whether organically or because it be seek refuge from the great regulation of large platform , could not be make subject to a more restrictive regime . the second be that large platform whose operation give rise to very little concern in the context of this Bill — Wikipedia be a common example — would have to be subject to more extensive regulatory requirement than be justify by the risk they really present . lord amendment 391 in the name of my right hon . friend the noble Baroness Morgan seek to resolve those two problem at once . give that I propose an identical amendment in this House , I be unsurprisingly in favour of it , and I congratulate Baroness Morgan on do a well job of persuade the other place of its merit than I manage to do in this place . I be pleased to see the Government effectively accept that amendment today . finally , I will say a few word about the amendment table by other right hon . and hon . member . if you will forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker , in the interest of time , I will not speak to all the amendment propose by my hon . friend the Member for Yeovil ( Mr Fysh ) — I can see that you approve . however , from what I have just say , he will gather that I can not support his amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 1 , which would limit application of all the safety duty in the Bill to " provider of significant size and capacity , and with a substantial involvement in the communication of medium content " . I can not support my hon . friend ' s amendment for both technical and substantive reason . the technical reason be that Lords amendment 1 add an introductory clause to the Bill that be design to be a guide to its content and effect , and his amendment to that clause be not follow through in the rest of the Bill . as such , the introductory clause would say that the Bill ' s scope be limit to large platform only , but the rest of the Bill would not say the same . the more substantive reason be that in my view , my hon . friend ' s amendment be both inappropriate and unnecessary . it be inappropriate because highly harmful content can be find on small platform , and all platform should surely do what they can to minimise harm to child and the presence of illegal content on their service , which be the focus of the Bill . it be unnecessary because the concept of proportionality run through the Bill , so the regulator ' s expectation of small platform can and should be different from its expectation of large one . my hon . friend ' s other amendment seek to avoid introduce , by mean of the imposition of the safety duty , what he describe as " systemic weakness and vulnerability relate to compliance with the duty " . he seek to do so in a number of place in the Bill . however , that concept of systemic weakness and vulnerability be not define and could be extraordinarily wide , potentially undermine the whole purpose of those safety duty . I be be slightly unfair to my hon . friend , because he have not speak yet , but I think he be primarily concerned with the Bill ' s effect on encrypt service . other have express concern , too — my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) and the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) have make their concern know through their amendment to Lords amendment 217 — which raise an important question about where we be on encryption . throughout the progress of the Bill , Ministers have be clear that it involve no ban on the use of encryption . however , as other have say , there will need to be some further clarity — not least , by the way , about the interaction of the regime we be create with the data protection regime and the involvement of the Information Commissioner ' s Office . encryption clearly can not be a " get out of jail free " card for safety duty compliance . surely , people can not say , " I operate an encrypt service , so I do not have to comply with the safety duty . " do it therefore follow that if there be no prohibition on the use of encryption and no exemption from safety duty just because a service use it , each service that be within the scope of the Bill and use encryption must show Ofcom that it can meet its safety duty proportionately and with due weight give to balance duty — particularly on privacy — with the use of encryption ? if a service can not do so , do it follow that Ofcom will require that service to not use encryption , to the extent that that be necessary for it to meet its safety duty to Ofcom ' s satisfaction ? we need clarity on that point . finally , as I say at the start , the Bill be not perfect and there be still much work to be do , but if we can agree the final change we be discuss and , indeed , if their Lordships be prepare to endorse that next week , the very real prize to be win be that Ofcom can begin the work that it need to do soon rather than later and we can bring near the benefit that this legislation can deliver for the vulnerable online . More than that , we can enhance the reputation of Parliament as we show that we can do difficult legislation in otherwise fractious time with sincerity , seriousness and a willingness to compromise . I think that be a valuable prize and one within our grasp , and it be why I shall support the Government amendment . it be a pleasure to follow my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , who make a characteristically thoughtful speech . at the outset , I want to put on record my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and also my chairmanship of the all - party parliamentary group on digital identity and on central bank and digital currency , which include stablecoin . I also put on record the fact that I be the father of an eight - year - old girl and a nine - year - old girl , who have both just get iPads , and I be very aware of the need to protect they as all other child in the UK . I just want to say that I have have good engagement with Ministers during the progress of this Bill through all of its stage , and I want to thank they and their team for that . I also want to say that I really welcome what be now in the Bill to progress what I talk about in this place at the last stage it be discuss , which be the effect of algorithm and all of those design feature that be part of the addiction we have hear several member talk about as a potential harm . I think it be really good that that be in the Bill , and it be really good that the tech company be be force to think hard about these thing . my amendment — they be proposal for amendment rather than one I realistically think we would adopt through vote today — be design to address a couple of potential shortcoming I see in the Bill . one be the potential chilling effect on innovation and in the use of really important service that be user - to - user service from a technical point of view , but be not involve in the transmission of the content we be try to deal with as the main objective of this Bill . so it be very welcome to hear my hon . friend the Minister speak at the Dispatch Box about the Government ' s intention not to cover the sort of service to do with datum exchange and multi - party computation — some of the more modern method by which the internet of thing , artificial intelligence and various other type of platform run — which be not about make content available that could be a risk in the context we be talk about . the other shortcoming I be try to address be this idea , come back to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam , of the potential for the introduction of systemic weakness and vulnerability into the core system that all our communication , many of our service , Government service and other rely on day by day for their secure operation . I think he make a very interesting point about the need to think through the precise legal impact that the potential uncertainty about some of those issue might have on the operation of those system . I be try to introduce amendment — for example , amendment ( a ) in lieu of Lords amendment 189 — essentially to provide clarification . this be particularly important when we be think about the remote access power or the remote viewing of information power in Lords amendment 189 , which be why I have propose an amendment in lieu . it be incredibly important that what we do in this Bill do not create the really fundamental weakness that could undermine the security that we and all of our system rely on for their core operation . I be also try to address people ' s understandable desire for their datum not to be potentially accessible by an unauthorised third party . that type of systemic weakness , which could be introduce by do the access process in the wrong way , be something we need to think carefully about , and I hope the Minister will say something about intent in respect of that at the Dispatch Box . I do not want to take too much more time because I know that lot of other member wish to speak , but the place where I get these idea , particularly around systemic weakness , be power in australian law that be there to provide protection from exactly that type of application of the regulation . I know official think that Lords amendment 189 do not present such a systemic risk , because it be about view information remotely rather than have access to the system directly , but I think that need more clarity . it actually state : " view remotely — information … in real time " which could potentially be interpret as require that type of access . on proportionality — this be my last point — we must think about the concept of necessity within that . we must try to strike the right balance — I hope we will all try to do this — between want to encourage tech firm to divulge how their system work , and give people , include the Government , tool to say when something be not work well and they want to opt out of it , while also ensure that fundamental operative thing that be use in cryptography and computer system to communicate with each other securely , be not inadvertently undermine . let I start , like other , by say how extraordinarily pleased I be to see the Bill return to the House today . I put on record my enormous gratitude to the many people who have work on it , especially the family of those who have lose love one , organisation such as the Internet Watch foundation , of which I have be a champion for over a decade , the Mental Health Foundation , the many Ministers who have work on this , and especially the Secretary of State , who continue to work on it through her maternity leave , and those in the other place . it be wonderful to be at the Bar of the other place , listen to Baroness Kidron , and other , when they speak , and I thank she for be here today . I also particularly wish to thank Baroness Morgan and Lord Bethell . a few month ago at the beginning of the year I go to one of those meeting that all mp do , when they go and speak to politic student in their own sixth form . they normally throw load of question at we , but before I let they throw question at I , I say , " listen , I have a question I need to ask . " as a Back Bencher in this place we get ask to work on so many different issue , so I grab the white board and scribble down a list of many issue that I have be ask to work on , both domestically and internationally . I give the student each three vote and ask they what they want my priority to be . the issue of tackle online pornography , and the impact it be have , be way up that list . I thank the Children ' s Commissioner for the work do with young people to identify and understand that risk more . our research ask 16 to 21 - year - old when they have first see online pornography , and 10 % — one in 10 — have see online pornography by the age of nine , and 27 % have see it by the age of 11 , so more than one in four . fifty per cent . — that be half ; that be every other one of those young people — have see online pornography before they turn 13 . it be also the case that the type of pornography they have be see be increasingly more violent in nature , and that be change young people ' s attitude towards sex . young people age 16 to 21 be more likely to assume that girl expect or enjoy sex involve physical aggression such as airway restriction — strangle — or slapping , than those who do not see such pornography . among the respondent , 47 % state that girl expect sex to involve physical aggression , and 42 % say that most girl enjoy act of sexual aggression . some 47 % of respondent age 18 to 21 have experience a violent sexual act . the Children ' s Commissioner also ask these young people where they be watch pornography , and the great number of young people be watch that pornography on Twitter — now x — not pornography platform . this be not just an issue in this country . I take a delegation with the Inter - Parliamentary Union to the UN Commission on the Status of Women , where we hold a joint meeting with the Women and Equalities Committee , and it be stand room only , with woman from hugely diverse part of the world , include South Korea , India , Canada , New Zealand and many different european country . I say that in the UK we be see young and young child view online pornography that be increasingly violent in content , lead to more violence in relationship and more sexual abuse . I ask they which of they be see that in their own country , and every single hand in that room — standing room only — go up . they have come to that room because they know that the UK be go to legislate in this area and they want to see what we do . by pass the amendment , work with the House of Lords , we will ensure that we have age assurance to stop young people be able to see pornography , and not just on pornography site but on social medium site . we be take massive step to safeguard our child and young people , and the rest of the world will follow . thank you for everything that have be do . I also want to talk about self - harm and , in particular , eat disorder . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will remember the last time I speak about this matter , and I speak as a former anorexic . Anorexia be the large killer of all mental health condition . last week , I meet mental health expert in my constituency , and they be talk about the increase we have see recently in acute mental health issue , especially in people consider suicide and in people with eat disorder . they completely agree , from what they be see on the ground , that online content encourage or glamorise self - harm be part of what be fuel this rise . that be why the Mental Health Foundation , Beat and other charity have work so hard , and I thank they for their advice and work . they have long call for well regulation of dangerous suicide and eat disorder forum . I be absolutely delighted that the Government have accept and strengthen the amendment from Baroness Morgan of Cotes , because dangerous platform be not just large platform . I hear from the group I meet last week about a tiny forum that be set young woman their death date . two young people have already kill themselves on their death date , as set by this platform , before the mental health expert have find out about it . they have be able to rescue at least two other by know about it . small platform can be really dangerous . the amendment will enable small platform to be regulate in the same way as major platform , such as Facebook . the Mental Health Foundation say : " we be delighted that the Government have accept the amendment … this will make it hard for people to stumble upon the bad content and help protect their mental health . the Government be to be congratulate for this important change … we also thank all parliamentarian from both Houses and from all party who have support this change . " I listen to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , and I absolutely agree with how he set out his support for this measure . it be why I be afraid we can not support the amendment from my hon . friend the Member for Yeovil ( Mr Fysh ) in this area . in particular , I want to make sure that the new criminal offence of intentionally encourage people to self - harm cover eat disorder . I be grateful to the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , for write to I early this year on 17 May , confirm that the definition of serious self - harm , when it come to this offence , will cover , for example , encourage someone not to eat , not to drink or not to take prescribed medication . he confirm that those provision be include with eat disorder in mind . actually , when we delve deep into this , we see that it be sometimes not the individual bit of content but the way in which a vulnerable person get bombard with content on those platform that can be so damaging . last December , the Center for counter Digital Hate do some research into that and find that TikTok be bombard vulnerable user with harmful content every 39 second . that be how the algorithm be affect the issue . I therefore write back to the Minister and ask he whether the offence would cover the algorithm as well as the content . I will try to be quick , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I want to put on the record exactly what he say , because I think it be important . he say that " the offence can not apply to algorithms themselves . Algorithms be design to automatically send people material that may be of interest to they . it seem unlikely that if a person merely create an algorithm and do not themselves send , transmit or publish the communication ( for example ) , they could be say to be undertake a ' relevant act ' . however , every case will turn on its specific fact , and if the circumstance be such that a person ' s action do constitute ' a relevant act capable of encourage or assist the serious self - harm of another person ' and that act be intend to encourage or assist the serious self - harm of another person , then the creator of the algorithm will be capture . " I want to read that out in this place because it be really important that creator of algorithm be aware that there be a risk that if they continue with this behaviour , which be bombard our young people with this most dangerous content , they could be catch under that offence . will the Minister , in his closing remark , kindly confirm from the Dispatch Box that that be exactly what the Minister of State for Justice put in writing to I ? rise — I have three more speaker . I ask that colleague bear that in mind so that I can bring in the Minister . I would like to mention a very long journey in relation to the protection of child , because to my mind that be right at the heart of the Bill ' s social value . I think it be Disraeli who say : " the youth of a nation be the trustee of posterity . " if we get it right in the early stage of their life and we provide legislation that enable they to be properly protect , we be likely to get thing right for the future . the Bill do that in a very good way . the Bill also reflect some of the thing in which I find myself involve in 1977 — just over 45 year ago — with the Protection of Children Bill when Cyril Townsend come top of the private Member ' s Bill ballot . I mention that because at that time we receive resistance from Government Ministers and other — I be afraid I must say that it be a Labour Minister — but we get the Bill through as the then Prime Minister James Callaghan eventually ensure it do so . his wife insist on it , as a matter of fact . I pay tribute to the House of Lords . other have repeatedly mention the work of Baroness Kidron , but I would also like to mention Lord Bethell , Baroness Morgan and other , because it have be a combined effort . it have be Parliament at its good . I have hear other , include my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , make that point . it have be a remarkably lengthy but none the less essential process , and I pay tribute to those people for what they have do . in retrospect , I would like to mention Baroness Lucy Faithfull , because back in 1977 - 78 I would not have know what to do if she have not work relentlessly in the House of Lords to secure the measure necessary to protect child from sexual image and pornographic photography — it be about assault , and I do not need to go into the detail . the bottom line be that it be the first piece of legislation that swing the pendulum towards common sense and proportionality in matter that , 45 year later , have culminate in what have be discuss in the Bill and the amendment today . I pay tribute to Ian Russell and to the other here whose child have be catch up in this terrible business . I pay specific tribute to the Secretary of State and the Minister , and also the Health Secretary for his statement yesterday about a national suicide strategy , in which he reference amendment to the Bill . because I have have a lot to do with he , I would like to pay tribute to Richard Collard of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children , who have not be mention yet , for work so hard and effectively . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) for her work to help get the amendment through . the write ministerial statement come after some interesting discussion with the Minister , who be a bit surprised by our vehemence and determination . it be not chariot of fire but chariot on fire , and within three week , by the time the Bill get to the House of Lords , we have a write ministerial statement that set the tone for the part of the Bill that I discuss just now , to protect child because they need protection at the right time in their life . the NSPCC tell we that 86 % of UK adult want company to understand how groomer and child abuser use their site to harm child , and want action to prevent it by law . I come up with the idea , although the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) give we a lot of support in a debate in this House at the time , and I be grateful to she for that . the fact that we be able to come forward with this legislation owe a great deal to a lot of people from different part of the House . I very much accept that continue review be necessary . many idea have be put forward in this debate , and I be sure that the Minister be take they all on board and will ensure that the review happen and that Ofcom act accordingly , which I be sure it will want to . it be important that that be do . I must mention that the fact we have leave the European Union have enable we to produce legislation to protect child that be very significantly strong than European Union legislation . the Digital Services Act fall very far short of what we be do here . I pay tribute to the Government for promote idea base on our self - government to protect our voter ' child and our society . that step could only have be take now that we have leave the European Union . research by the NSPCC demonstrate that four in five victim of online grooming offence be girl . it be worth mention that , because it be a significant piece of research . that mean that there have to be clear guidance about the type of design that will be incorporate by virtue of the discussion to be have about how to make all this legislation work properly . the only other thing I would like to say be that the £ 10 - million suicide prevention grant fund announce yesterday complement the Bill very well . it be important that we have a degree of symmetry between legislation to prevent suicide and to ensure that child be keep safe . there be much more I could say but I do not need to say any more , except to say thank you to everybody in this House and in the other place , and to official for the advice we have receive from the Department and for the co - operation we have have . I believe that this will be a groundbreaking Bill when it be apply in practice . it be not enough just to pass piece of legislation ; the question be how we manage to implement they . that , to my mind , be the most important thing . I thank everybody concerned for the work they have do to make sure the Bill will eventually reach the statute book . I will follow on from the remark make by my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , who talk powerfully about the impact of online pornography , particularly on child who see it . sadly , online pornography be increasingly violent . many video depict graphic and degrading abuse of woman , sicken act of rape and incest , and many underage participant . I also want to refer to the excellent study by the Children ' s Commissioner , which reveal that the average age at which child first encounter pornography online be just 13 year old , and that there be 1 . 4 million visit to pornography site by british child each and every month . as my right hon . Friend say , that be rewire child ' s brain in respect of what they think about sex , what they expect during sex and what they think girl want during sex . I think we will all look back on this widespread child exposure to pornography in a similar way to how we look back on child work down mine or be condemn to the poor house . future generation will wonder how on earth we abandon our child to online pornography . end the ready availability of pornographic content to child and criminalise those who fail to protect they should surely be the most important goal of the Online Safety Bill . indeed , that be most of the aim of part 3 of the Digital Economy Act 2017 , which be never enact . without the Government amendment table in the Lords last week , which I strongly support , the Online Safety Bill would have be in danger of miss this opportunity . as my colleague have do , I want to thank the Secretary of State and Ministers for their engagement in what have be a cross - party campaign both in this place and the other place , with Baroness Kidron and Lord Bethell lead the way , along with charity and the campaigning journalist Charles Hymas at the Daily Telegraph , who do a fantastic job of report it all so powerfully . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , who have teach I all I ever need to know about how to negotiate with Government . we now have these brilliantly strengthen amendment , include , significantly , an amendment that will criminalise director and manager if they do not comply with Ofcom ' s enforcement notice in relation to specific child safety duty . that be really important , because we be talk about the wealthy company in the world . just have fine will not be enough to generate the kind of culture change at board level that we need . only potential jail term , which have work in the construction industry and the financial service industry , will do what it take . lord amendment 141 and 142 make pornography a primary priority harm for child . importantly , user - to - user provider , as well as dedicated adult site , will now be explicitly require to use highly effective age verification tool to prevent child access they . the wording " highly effective " be crucial , because porn be porn wherever it be find , whether on Twitter , which as my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford say be the most likely place for child to find pornography , or on dedicated adult site . it have the same effect and cause the same harm . it be therefore vital that tech company will actually have to prevent child from go on their site , and not just try hard . that be an incredibly important amendment . do my hon . friend agree that what have really put their tooth on edge most of all be the idea that they might go to prison ? my hon . friend be completely right . the impact of not take responsibility for protect child have to go to the very top . lord amendment 105 would compel Ofcom to submit its draft code of practice within 18 month . that be an improvement on the previously lax timescale , which I welcome — along with the other significant improvement that have be make — and I repeat my gratitude to the Minister and the Secretary of State . let we not pretend , however , that on Royal Assent our child will suddenly be safe from online pornography or any other online harm . there be serious question to be ask about Ofcom ' s capability to enforce against non - compliant porn site , and I think we should look again at part 3 of the Digital Economy Act 2017 , which would have allow the British Board of Film Classification to act as the regulator . I congratulate the hon . Lady on the excellent effort she have make over a long period to highlight these matter . do she agree that this be not the end but only the beginning of the first day of ensure that we have proper digital access protection for not only child but adult who have access to digital device ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support . what he say be entirely correct . the key to this do , of course , lie in the implementation . one of the capability of the BBFC be to disrupt the business model and the payment provision of the adult online industry . I ask the Minister to consider whether he can direct Ofcom to examine the way in which the BBFC deal with offline and stream pornography , and whether Ofcom could learn some lesson from that . there be still a disparity between the kind of pornography that be allow offline , on dvd or stream service , and the kind that appear online . Offline , certain act be illegal and the BBFC will not classify the content : any act that look non - consensual , for example , be illegal and the material can not be distribute , whereas online it proliferate . the Bill should have be the perfect vehicle to expand those rule to all online service offer pornographic content . sadly , we have miss that opportunity , but I nevertheless welcome the Government ' s recently announce porn review . I hope it can be use to close the online / offline gap , to insert verification check for people appear in pornographic video and to deal with related offence . many of those people do not consent and do not know that they be in the video . we also need to take account of the complete lack of moderation on some of the site . it be recently reveal in a court case in the United States that 700 , 000 Pornhub site have be flag for illegal content , but have not be check . Pornhub have manage to check just 50 video a day , and have acknowledge that unless a video have be flag more than 15 time for potential criminal content , such as child rape , it will not even join the queue to be moderate and potentially take down . the child and the trafficked woman who appear in those video be see their abuse repeat million of time with no ability to pull it down . the Bill have be controversial , and many of the argument have concern issue of free speech . I be a supporter of free speech , but violent pornography be not free speech . draw child into addiction be not free speech . knowingly allow child to view horrific sex crime be not free speech . publishing and profit from video of child be rape be not free speech . it be sicken , it be evil , it be destructive and it be a crime , and it be a crime from which too many profit with impunity . a third of the internet consist of pornography . the global porn industry ' s revenue be estimate to be as much as $ 97 billion . the Bill be an important step forward , but we would be naive to expect this Goliath of an industry to roll over and keep child safe . there be much more to be do which will require international co - operation , co - operation from financial institution , and government who be prepared to stand their ground against the might of these vest interest . I very much hope that this one will . I want to speak briefly about Lords amendment 195 and 153 , which would allow Ofcom , coroner and bereaved parent to acquire information and support relate to a child ' s use of social medium in the event of that child ' s tragic death . specifically , I want to speak about Archie Battersbee , who live in my constituency but lose his life tragically last year , age only 12 . Archie ' s mum , Hollie , be in the Public Gallery at the beginning of the debate , and I hope that she be still present . Hollie find Archie unconscious on the stair with a ligature around his neck . the brain injury Archie suffer put he into a four - month coma from which , sadly , doctor be unable to save he . to this day , Hollie believe that Archie may have be take part in some form of highly dangerous online challenge , but , unable to access Archie ' s online datum beyond 90 day of his search history , she have be unable to put this devastating question to rest . like the parent of Molly , Breck , Isaac , Frankie and Sophia , for the last year Hollie have be engage in a cruel uphill struggle against faceless corporation in her attempt to determine whether her child ' s engagement with a digital service contribute to his death . despite know that Archie view seven minute of content and receive online message in the hour and a half prior to his death , she have no way of know what may have be say or exactly what he may have view , and the question of his online engagement and its potential role in his death remain unsolved . lord amendment 195 , which will bolster Ofcom ' s information - gather power , will I hope require a much more humane response from provider in such tragic case as this . this be vital and much - need legislation . have it be in place a year ago , it be highly likely that Hollie could have lay her concern to rest and perhaps receive a pocket of peace in what have be the most traumatic time any parent could possibly imagine . I also welcome Lords amendment 153 , which will mandate the large provider to put in place a dedicated helpline so that parent who suffer these tragic event will have a direct line and a well way of communicate with social medium provider , but the proof of the pudding will obviously be in the eating . I very much hope that social medium provider will man that helpline with real people who have the appropriate experience to deal with parent at that tragic time in their life . I believe that Hollie and the parent of many other child in similar tragic case will welcome the Government ' s amendment that allow Ofcom , coroner and bereaved parent to access their child ' s online datum via the coroner direct Ofcom . I pay tribute to the noble Baroness Kidron , to my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sajid Javid ) and to the Bereaved Families for Online Safety group , who have do so much fantastic work in share their heartrende story and open our eye to what have be necessary to improve the Online Safety Bill . I also , of course , pay tribute to Ian Russell , to Hollie and to all the other bereaved parent for their dedication to raise awareness of this hugely important issue . if I could just say one last thing , I have be slip from the Education Committee to attend this debate today and I would like to give an advert for the Committee ' s new inquiry , which be launch on Monday , into the effect of screen time on education and wellbeing . this Bill be not the end of the matter — in many way it be just the beginning — and I urge all member please to engage with this incredibly important inquiry by the Education Committee . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution to the debate today and , indeed , right through the passage of this complex Bill . first , let I turn to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Yeovil ( Mr Fysh ) . I understand that the intention of his amendment be to restrict the reach of the new online safety regulatory regime in a number of way . I appreciate his concern to avoid unnecessarily burdensome business , and I be sympathetic to his point that the Bill should not inhibit sector such as the life science sector . I reassure he that such sector be not the target of this regime and that the new regulatory framework be proportionate , risk - base and pro - innovation . the framework have be design to capture a range of service where there be a risk of significant harm to user , and the build - in exemption and categorisation will ensure it be properly target . the alternative would be a narrow scope , which would be more likely to inadvertently exempt risky science or to displace harm on to service that be out of scope . the extensive discussion on this point in both Houses have make it clear that such a position be unlikely to be acceptable . the amendment to the overarching statement that would change the service in scope would introduce unclear and subjective term , cause issue of interpretation . the Bill be design so that low - risk service will have to put in place only proportionate measure that reflect the risk of harm to their user and the service provider ' s size and capacity , ensure that small provider will not be overly burden unless the level of risk require it . the amendment that would ensure Ofcom can not require the use of a proactive technology that introduce weakness or vulnerability into a provider ' s system duplicate exist safeguard . it also introduce vague term that could restrict Ofcom ' s ability to require platform to use the most effective measure to address abhorrent illegal activity . Ofcom must act proportionately , and it must consider whether a less intrusive measure could achieve the same effect before require the use of proactive technology . Ofcom also have duty to protect both privacy and private property , include algorithms and code , under the Human Rights Act 1998 . I thank the Minister for engage with we on access to private property and for set up , with his official , a consultation on the right to access a person ' s phone after they be deceased or incapacitate . I thank he for incorporate some of those thought in what he and the Government be do today . I hope this be the start of something and that these big digital company will no long be able to bully people . the boot will be on the other foot , and the public will own what they have on their digital device . the hon . Gentleman be talk about the access of coroner , family and other to information , follow the sad death of Molly Russell . again , I pay tribute to Ian Russell and all the campaigner . I be glad that we have be able to find an answer to a very complex situation , not only because of its international nature but because of datum protection , et cetera . the measure I have outline will ensure that risk relate to security vulnerability be manage . the Bill be also clear that Ofcom can not require company to use proactive technology on privately communicate content , in order to comply with their safety duty , which will provide further safeguard for user privacy and datum security . will the Minister make it clear that we should expect the company to use proactive technology , because they already use it to make money by recommend content to people , which be a principal reason for the Bill ? if they use proactive technology to make money , they should also use it to keep people safe . my hon . friend absolutely nail it . he say early that business be already collect this datum . since I be first involve with the Bill , it have primarily be about get business to adhere to their own term and condition . the datum they use should be use in that way . the amendment to the definition of " freedom of expression " in part 12 would have no effect as these concept be already cover by the exist definition . change the definition of " automated tool " would introduce untested term and would have an unclear and confusing impact on the duty . my hon . friend the Member for Yeovil also ask for clarification of how Ofcom ' s power to view information remotely will be use , and whether the power be sufficiently safeguard . I assure the House that this power be subject to strict safeguard that mean it can not be use to undermine a provider ' s system . on Third reading in the other place , the Government introduce amendment that define the regulator ' s power to view information remotely , whereas previously the Bill speak of access . as such , there be no risk to system security , as the power do not enable Ofcom to access the service . Ofcom also have a duty to act proportionately and must abide by its privacy obligation under the Human Rights Act . Ofcom have a stringent restriction on disclose business ' commercially sensitive and other information without consent . my hon . Friend also ask for clarification on whether Ofcom will be able to view live user datum when use this power . generally , Ofcom would expect to require a service to use a test dataset . however , there may be circumstance where Ofcom ask a service to execute a test use datum that it hold , for example , in test how content moderation system respond to certain type of content on a service as part of an assessment of the system and process . in that scenario , Ofcom may need to use a provider ' s own test dataset contain content that have previously violate its own term of service . however , that would be subject to Ofcom ' s privacy obligation and datum protection law . lord amendment 17 seek to explicitly exempt low - risk functionality from aspect of user - to - user service ' child ' s risk assessment duty . I be happy to reassure my hon . friend that the current drafting of the Government ' s amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 17 place proportionate requirement on provider . it explicitly exclude low - risk functionality from the more stringent duty to identify and assess the impact that high - risk functionality have on the level of risk of harm to child . proportionality be far bake into this duty through Ofcom ' s risk assessment guidance . Ofcom be bind by the principle of proportionality as part of its general duty under the Communications Act 2003 , as update by the Bill . as such , it would not be able to recommend that provider should identify and assess low - risk functionality . the amendment to Lords amendment 217 table by my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) would introduce a new safeguard that require Ofcom to consider whether technology require under a clause 122 notice would circumvent end - to - end encryption . I wish to reassure he and other who have raise the question that the amendment be unnecessary because it be duplicative of exist measure that restrict Ofcom ' s use of its power . under the Bill ' s safeguard , Ofcom can not require platform to weaken or remove encryption , and must already consider the risk that specify technology can result in a breach of any statutory provision or the rule of law concern privacy . we have intentionally design the Bill so that it be technology neutral and futureproofed , so we can not accept amendment that risk the legislation quickly become out of date . that be why we focus on safeguard that uphold user right and ensure measure that be proportionate to the specific risk , rather than focus on specific feature such as encryption . for the reason I have set out , I can not accept the amendment and hope it will not be press to a vote . the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) would create an additional reporting requirement on Ofcom to review , as part of its report on the use of the age assurance , whether the visibility of a user ' s verification status improve the effectiveness of age assurance , but that duplicate exist review requirement in the Bill . the Bill already provide for a review of user verification ; under clause 179 , the Secretary of State will be require to review the operation of the online safety regulatory framework as a whole . this review must assess how effective the regulatory framework be at minimise the risk of harm that in scope service pose to user in the UK . that may include a review of the effectiveness of the current user verification and non - verify user duty . I thank my hon . friend also for raise the issue of user verification and the visibility of verification status . I be pleased to confirm that Ofcom will have the power to set out guidance on user verification status be visible to all user . with regard to online fraud or other illegal activity , mandatory user verification and visibility of verification status be something Ofcom could recommend and require under legal safety duty . let I quickly cover some of the other point raise in the debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , a former Minister , for all her work . she talk about young people and the Bill contain many measure , for example , on self - harm or suicide content , that reflect they and will still help to protect they . on the comment make by the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) and indeed the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , whom I be glad to see back in her place , there be a number of review point . clause 179 require the Secretary of State to review how the Bill be work in practice , and there will be a report result from that , which will be lay before Parliament . we also have the annual Ofcom report that I talk about , and most statutory instrument in the Bill will be subject to the affirmative procedure . the Bill refer to a review after two to five year — minister can dictate when it take place within that period — but that be base on allow a long enough time for the Bill to bed in and be implement . it be important that we have the ability to look at that in Parliament . the UN convention on the right of the child principle be already in the Bill . although the Bill do not cite the report by name , the EU convention principle be all cover in the Bill . my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) do an amazing job in his time in my role , and before and afterwards as Chair of the Joint Committee responsible for the pre - legislative scrutiny of the Online Safety Bill . when he talk about scrutiny , I have the advantage of see the wry smile of the official in the Box behind he . that scrutiny have be go on since 2021 . Sarah Connolly , one of our amazing team of official , have be involve with the Bill since it be just a concept . as Carnegie UK Trust observe online , a child bear on the day the Government first publish their original internet safety strategy would now be in its second year of primary school . I do not think I need to respond to that , but it go to show do it not ? my hon . friend talk about post - legislative scrutiny . now that we have the new Department of Science , Innovation and Technology , we have extra capacity within Committees to look at various aspect , and not just online safety as important as that be . it also give we the ability to have sub - Committees . clearly , we want to make sure that this and all the decision that we make be scrutinise well . we be always open to look at what be happen . my hon . friend talk about Ofcom be able to appoint skilled person for research — I totally agree and he absolutely make the right point . my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) and the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) talk about cyber - flashing . as I have say , that have come within the scope of the Bill , but we will also be implement a broad package of offence that will cover the taking of intimate image without consent . to answer my right hon . friend ' s point , yes , we will still look far at that matter . the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) talk about Joe Nihill . will he please send my good wish and thank to Catherine and Melanie for their ongoing work in this area ? it be always difficult , but it be admirable that people can turn a tragedy into such a positive cause . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) make two point with which I absolutely agree . they be very much cover in the Bill and in our thinking as well , so I say yes to both . my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) and my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) talk about pornography . clearly , we must build on the Online Safety Bill . we have the pornography review as well , which explore regulation , legislation and enforcement . we very much want to make sure that this be the first stage , but we will look at pornography and the enforcement around that in a deep way over the next 12 month . it have just cross my mind that the Minister might be say that he agree with everything that I say , which can not be right . let I be clear about the two point . one be in relation to whether , when we look at design harm , both proportionality and balancing duty be relevant — I think that he be say yes to both . the other point that I raise with he be around encryption , and whether I put it in the right way in term of the Government ' s position on encryption . if he can not deal with that now , and I would understand if he can not , will he write to I and set out whether that be the correct way to see it ? I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . indeed , end - to - end encrypt service be in the scope of the Bill . company must assess the level of risk and meet their duty no matter what their design be . can the Minister confirm whether the letter I receive from the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) be accurate ? I be just come to that . I thank my right hon . friend for the rest of her speech . she always speak so powerfully on eat disorder — on anorexia in particular — and I can indeed confirm the intent behind the Minister ' s letter about the creation and use of algorithm . finally , I shall cover two more point . my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) always speak eloquently about this . he talk about Brexit , but I will not get into the politic of that . suffice to say , it have allow we — as in other area of digital and technology — to be flexible and not prescriptive , as we have see in measure that the EU have introduce . I also ask my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) to pass on my thank and good wish to Hollie whom I meet to talk about Archie Battersbee . on the small high - harm platform that be now in the scope of the Bill , will the Minister join I in thank Hope not Hate , the Antisemitism Policy Trust and CST , which have campaign heavily on this point ? while we have be have this debate , the CST have expose BitChute , one of those small high - harm platform , for geoblocke some of the hate to comply with legislation but then advertise loophole and way to get around that on the platform . can the Minister confirm that the regulator will be able to take action against such proceeding ? I will certainly look at that . our intention be that in all area , especially relate to child and their protection , that might not fall within the user enforcement duty , we will look to make sure that the work of those organisation be reflect in what we be try to achieve in the Bill . we have talk about the various Ministers that have look after the Bill during its passage , and the Secretary of State be leave literally hold the baby in every sense of the word because she continue to work on it while she be on maternity leave . we can see the result of that with the engagement that we have have . I urge all member on both side of the House to consider carefully the amendment I have propose today in lieu of those make in the Lords . I know every Member look forward eagerly to a future in which parent have surety about the safety of their child online . that future be fast approach . I reiterate my thank to esteemed colleague who have engage so passionately with the Bill . it be due to their collaborative spirit that I stand today with amendment that we believe be effective , proportionate and agreeable to all . I hope all member will feel able to support our position . amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 182 . lord amendment 182 , as amend , agree to . amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make to Lords amendment 349 . lord amendment 349 , as amend , agree to . Amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 391 . lord amendment 391 , as amend , agree to . government consequential amendment ( a ) make . lord amendment 17 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 17 . Lords amendment 20 disagree to . Lords amendment 22 disagree to . Lords amendment 81 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 81 . lord amendment 148 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 148 . lord amendment 1 to 16 , 18 , 19 , 21 , 23 to 80 , 82 to 147 , 149 to 181 , 183 to 348 , 350 to 390 , and 392 to 424 agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive in respect of Lords amendment 171 , 180 , 181 , 317 , 390 and 400 . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 20 and 22 ; that Paul Scully , Steve Double , Alexander Stafford , Paul Howell , Alex Davies - Jones , Taiwo Owatemi and Kirsty Blackman be member of the Committee ; that Paul Scully be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Mike Wood . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . dangerous drug I beg to move , that the draft Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 5 September , be approve . the order propose an amendment to paragraph 1 ( a ) of part 3 of schedule 2 to the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 to bring nitrous oxide under the control of that Act as a class c drug . in September 2021 , follow increase report of the harm associate with the use of nitrous oxide , the Government commission the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs to undertake an independent assessment of it . the Government request that the acmd include in its assessment a recommendation on the appropriate legislative control of the substance . I thank the acmd for the update harm assessment that it publish in March 2023 . its work have be helpful , and we be grateful for the time it spend advise the Government on this and other issue . the ACMD report do not recommend the control of nitrous oxide under the MDA , but it do note concern health harm such as nerve damage . on health harm , do the Minister acknowledge that the amendment be just tinker with an Act that do not address the health harm of drug ? do he agree that a wide review of the Act , which be half a century old , be need to take drug dealer off the street , tackle sinister organise crime , and treat those with addiction issue with compassion ? I do not agree that the amendment be tinker ; it be an important measure , as I will outline in just a moment . on action against drug abuse more generally , we have a whole 10 - year drug strategy that we be a year and a half into . it include tough enforcement at the border and action to disrupt criminal gang who deal drug — we have a record level of drug seizure recently . in addition , we be invest record sum in drug treatment — £ 582 million extra over a three - year period — and increase the number of treatment place by 54 , 000 , so there be a comprehensive programme of work , both on enforcement to break drug importation and drug gang , and , critically , on treatment to help people out of addiction and into a well life . I thank the Minister for clearly outline the Government ' s intention . the amendment deal very specifically with nitrous oxide , and I welcome it . the Government have recognise the need to make change . I would like more stringent drug control — as , I think , would the Minister — but , bear in mind the Government ' s intention , and the intention of some member to divide the House , can the Minister confirm that the amendment will not place more onerous condition on those who need to use nitrous oxide , such as dentist ? will they be outside its scope ? at the same time , the need for the law be clear . yes , I can provide that assurance . I will expand on this later , but those who be use nitrous oxide for legitimate purpose , which include the catering industry , the dental sector , research and even semiconductor manufacture , will be outside the scope of these restriction . the hon . Gentleman touch on the control of harmful drug more generally . it be important to control harmful drug , particularly where they be very addictive and cause health harm . we have see in city in North America that have liberalise their drug law substantially , such as San Francisco , Portland and some canadian city , that it have result in widescale public health problem . I know that the Minister be go to bring up Portland at some point . there have be a clarion call to the extreme right wing to clamp down on drug policy , but we have to look at Portland in its entirety . yes , it decriminalise drug , but it also cut back all its support service drastically and have a fentanyl crisis at exactly the same time . that create a perfect storm for the damage that have be do there . we would not want to undermine some of the good work that have be do there as well . well , if we look at the centre of San Francisco at the moment , it be not a very happy sight . the de facto decriminalisation of drug and , indeed , the failure to police certain criminal offence such as shoplifting have lead to disastrous outcome , and I be determined that we do not see the same in our jurisdiction . I do accept that treatment be very important , which be why we be invest all that extra money in treatment . the Minister talk about problem in San Francisco . do he agree that this legislation will also help to stop the havoc that nitrous oxide be wreak in our coastal community , in particular by tackle the increase availability of these high - harm large canister ? last summer , Southend police confiscate 400 on one day . I welcome this motion , and I thank the Minister for engage with I and other member across the House and listen to our concern . I thank my hon . friend for her kind word . the campaigning that she have do , on behalf of her Southend constituent , be an important part of why we be move this motion . I can see my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) in his place . I recall a Westminster Hall debate just a few month ago in which he and other colleague raise the harm that nitrous oxide be do in their community . People may sometimes wonder about the value of Westminster Hall debate , but I can honestly say that the contribution make by my hon . friend the Members for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) and for Wyre Forest and other be instrumental in bring about this change . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for mention that Westminster Hall debate . do he agree that campaigner such as Dr David Nicholl , an eminent neurosurgeon in Bromsgrove , be also instrumental ? he be responsible for raise with I and many colleague the unbelievable harm that this do to child , who think that , because it be call laugh gas , it be amusing , but it actually cause profound neurological problem for those who use it too much . my hon . friend be right to point to Dr Nicholl ' s work , and I thank he again for his campaigning on this issue , without which we possibly would not be here today take this legislation through Parliament . the evidence we have see about the neurological damage cause in particular by large - scale consumption of nitrous oxide be very worrying . neurological unit around the country have see case of people who have be paralyse and suffer really quite serious consequence . the number be not enormous , but they be extremely worrying , and the severe case , include paralysis , be deeply concern . I agree completely with what my hon . friend just say . I draw the House ' s attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : until recently , I be an act consultant addiction psychiatrist . on the point about other use of nitrous oxide — legitimate medicinal and industrial use — move it away from the psychoactive substance regulation to the Misuse of Drugs Act put a number of limitation on its use in its current setting . what consultation have my right hon . friend or his Department do with the medical sector as a whole , and also with other commercial provider or user of nitrous oxide , in advance of lay these regulation before the House ? we have conduct further engagement and consultation with the acmd and other in industry to understand the implication of this move . I be jump ahead a little , but we intend to table a further statutory instrument that will take effect alongside this one , which will make it clear that the sale and use of nitrous oxide for legitimate purpose will not be criminalise in any way — it will continue to be permit . the definition of legitimate use will be very broadly draw in that SI , because nitrous oxide be use for a wide range of medical research and commercial purpose , and we be not go to try to comprehensively list those purpose . a wide - base exemption for legitimate use will be put in place to make sure that we do not unintentionally stymie either medical research or commercial use of this drug . it be worth say that the use of nitrous oxide be quite widespread . among those age 16 to 24 — could we have a little clarity on those two si ? do that mean that there be go to be a period in which otherwise legitimate use will be illegitimate until the new SI be in place , and be that new SI need because people come forward and say , " Whoops , you ' ve miss this use " ? I be not quite sure how the two si be go to interact . no , there will be no gap , and it be not unintentional or inadvertent ; it be just likely that we will have to amend the way schedule 5 to the 1971 Act work in order to create this new category , essentially to accommodate nitrous oxide . the two si will be implement on the same day — there will be no lacuna or gap . that be just how we have to sequence the secondary legislation under the Act . let I return to the question of prevalence . some 230 , 000 young people inhale this harmful substance in the year end June 2022 . it be the third most misuse substance among that age group and , as we have discuss already , there be evidence that it have harmful neurological effect , particularly when consume in quite large quantity . beyond that , we know that nitrous oxide have a significant effect on antisocial behaviour — indeed , we announce the measure for which we be legislate today in the antisocial behaviour action plan . again , I thank parliamentary colleague for raise the impact that nitrous oxide have have on their community . it be fuel antisocial behaviour and have an impact on the decent , hard - work majority who want to use their local park or go down their local high street without be harass by antisocial behaviour or see the little silver canister litter all over the place . to give an illustration of the scale of the problem , after the Notting Hill carnival a couple of week ago , it be estimate that 13 tonne of those nitrous oxide canister and other be collect from the street by the clean - up crew . that be an extraordinary amount . how many tonne of beer can be collect ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the consumption of beer do not , generally speak , lead to severe neurological damage and paralysis in the way that the consumption of large amount of nitrous oxide do . I do not wish to be disoblige to the Minister , but the acmd be very clear that it do not believe that the medical harm of nitrous oxide pose anything like the significance of those cause by many other street drug , or indeed alcohol . alcohol - relate brain damage cause much more neurological harm than many street drug do , so I think it would be helpful for the Minister to correct the record on that point . I have refer to the acmd advice before , and the ACMD do note the anecdotal report of severe paralysis cause by excessive nitrous oxide consumption to which I have refer already . on this occasion — rarely , but not uniquely , disagree with acmd advice — the Government , as we be entitle to do , take a broad view . we think about the association with antisocial behaviour and about the fact that among 16 to 24 - year - old nitrous oxide be the third most used harmful substance , and that be why we take the step we do . of course , I acknowledge that , as my hon . Friend say , alcohol can have an adverse effect as well , but we feel that in this particular case the misuse of nitrous oxide merit action . many member have raise concern about the effect it have have in their community , and we be respond at least in part to the concern that member have raise . nitrous oxide be currently regulate under the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 . it be not , of course , currently an offence to possess nitrous oxide ; it be only an offence under the PSA to knowingly or recklessly sell it for personal consumption . so by control nitrous oxide as a class c drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act , it will not just be an offence to recklessly or intentionally sell this substance for personal consumption , but be an offence to possess it except for the legitimate use exemption I mention early . as I say in response to my hon . friend ' s early intervention , we will be bring through a further SI to set out the definition of those legitimate use . as I say a moment or two ago , those will be extremely wide - range to make sure we do not inadvertently stymie legitimate commercial , medical or research use . in summary , it be clear that drug misuse ruin life . in the case of nitrous oxide , it also contribute significantly to antisocial behaviour . the Government have listen to the public and to parliamentarian who have be speak for their constituent , and that be why we be take this action . I call the shadow Minister . nitrous oxide cause significant problem in our community . as we have hear , it be the third most misuse substance among 16 to 24 - year - old , it lead to antisocial behaviour , and the litter associate with it be a blight on our street , park and pavement . we know from our own mailbag that our community be sick of have to literally and figuratively pick up after the problem that nitrous oxide create . we feel that what the Government be propose be a relatively minor change to how we approach this , and we do not intend to stand in the way , but I do have a number of question that I hope the Minister can address . it have to be say that , as a psychoactive substance , nitrous oxide be already cover by the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 . in practice , that mean it be already an offence to produce it , supply it , offer to supply it , possess it with the intent to supply it , import it or export it on a similar basis . the only thing that be not an offence be the possession of it outside custody . that be in practice what will be different as a result of this instrument , so I would say , as I do at the beginning , that this be relatively modest . I be glad that the Minister have address the point relate to the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs , because it be important when the Government diverge from what their independent adviser tell they — which they be of course able to do — that they explain why they be do so . the opposition ' s view be that we would have give great weighting to the creation and impact of antisocial behaviour than the acmd do in its report , which be why take action be reasonable . the acmd do raise other point , and the Minister have cover they to some degree , but I want to get some great clarity , start with the legitimate use of nitrous oxide . we hear a couple of answer from the Minister — originally that there would be no change , but later that there would be a follow - up statutory instrument to make sure there be no change . those two thing be slightly different . I think I hear he say that they will come into force on the same day , so there will be no interregnum , but I would be grateful for more clarity if he be willing to say that that be the case . the ACMD report also discuss a tight definition of nitrous oxide so that lawful activity be not disrupt . the Minister , in his response , seem to indicate that he be minded to do that . could he say what the timeline might be ? it also raise the crucial point about the move from the 2016 Act to the 1971 Act , and that the impact of that ought to be keep under review . can he confirm that will be the case , because we do need to know that this will not excessively criminalise certain group , especially young people ? it be clear that the 1971 Act be vastly out of date and have many adverse consequence in its application . I wonder whether those on the Labour Front Bench would welcome the idea of our commit to review the use of that Act and to update and modernise it . I be not say we should scrap it , but we definitely need to investigate its use . that would give I some reassurance and enable I to do what those on the Front Bench be ask later on . I be afraid that I be go to disappoint my hon . friend by not set such a broad policy while debate a statutory instrument on a narrow bit of policy , but I know he will continue to make his case to I and my colleague ahead of the election down the road . let I address the point about the diversionary work . from what I understand from the impact assessment , the Government envisage a relatively small minority of those catch in possession be charge , with the other instead have conditional caution , community resolution or diversionary activity . I would be keen for the Minister to state what he have base that assessment on , and how he think it be likely to work in practice . the Minister , I think rightly and importantly , have couple this issue with that of antisocial behaviour , so we must take a reckoning of the Government ' s broad record on antisocial behaviour . they have have 13 year . the Minister talk about the antisocial behaviour action plan and the pilot programme in 10 police force , but that be less than a quarter of all force . we have see from the Minister and his colleague a complete failure to reverse the cut to neighbourhood policing , and we still have 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer than we do eight year ago . half the population say that they rarely see the police on the beat , and that proportion have double since 2010 . it be clear that the Government ' s plan be too modest to meet this challenge . I welcome the shadow Minister to his place . will he join I in express pleasure at the fact that we now have record number of police officer ? as of 31 March , there be 149 , 566 in England and Wales , which be about 3 , 500 more than we have ever have at any time in history . I be grateful for that intervention and for the Minister ' s kind word of introduction . as he say , I be new to this parish , but if I be in his seat and not mine , I might be a little less gleeful about there be 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police officer and pcso than eight year ago , and about the fact that the people of this country , whom we serve , be twice as likely to say that they rarely see police on the beat than when this Government start in 2010 . that should perhaps be a point for reflection , rather than the grandstanding that we see . People will ask — it be important that the Minister address this — what non - legislative action be be take alongside this statutory instrument to ensure it be effective . on enforcement , this provision have important implication for our police , and I would be keen to know the Minster ' s assessment of the overall readiness of those who be already busy , and who we will be ask to enforce this ban . what training do he think it will take to be effective ? again , we must see this record in its historical context to know where we be build from . the Government have weaken power over the last decade , and bring in power that have not be use , such as the community trigger . they have abandon the major drug intervention programme that the previous Labour Government leave , they have slash youth service budget by £ 1 billion and they have let charge for criminal damage halve . we do not hear from the Minister what sort of broad preventive action he intend to implement alongside this statutory instrument to make it effective . we see in the independent report that standalone publicity campaign be likely to have limited effectiveness , so what more thoughtful , community - level approach be go to be use ? Labour Members have set out a full comprehensive plan , with 13 , 000 extra neighbourhood officer and pcso , pay for by saving that have be identify by the Police Foundation , but which Ministers be refuse to make . we would introduce new respect order for repeat offender , hotspot police to tackle drug dealing , and strong action on fly - tipping . those be the sort of thing we could align alongside the decision be take today to make sure that they be actually meaningful . otherwise there be a risk , which the Minister will have to reflect on , that people think the Government be chase headline , rather than chase change . to conclude , we will not stand in the way of this instrument today , but it must be see for what it be : a small intervention when we need much big idea . I be grateful to the Minister for lay out the reason for this SI . I recognise the impact on community up and down the land of this particular substance , not least in litter and antisocial behaviour . I be anxious , as I be sure be the Minister , that if we be go to introduce this new measure , we do it properly . I have a couple of question for the Minister about the impact of this instrument , particularly on the criminal justice system . look at the impact assessment , I be surprise by the relatively low number of individual it be envisage will be put through the system . as the Minister will know , if we be to have an impact , there have to be a significant deterrent effect . if we be to have a deterrent effect , there have to be a sense in people ' s mind that there be a very high probability of their be catch and that when they be catch , there will be a swift and certain consequence . can he reassure we that the police be gear up to deal with the number — even the relatively low number in the impact assessment — and that he have an ambition to go beyond those number ? I know he do not want to do something that be merely performative , but that he want to have an impact on this issue . we want to see few and few of these ampoule on the street and , indeed , few and few young people in particular use this substance . if the Minister hit his ambition , what impact will that have on the criminal justice system overall ? the estimate be that we will put , I think , a total of 500 - odd people in prison for possession of this substance . as far as I can see , that be small against a background number that be run into the hundred of thousand . nevertheless , that will have an impact on the prison system . the thousand who will be go through the magistrate court will obviously have an impact there . the police cost per capita of an arrest , charge and disposal of any kind by my calculation come in at about £ 880 , which seem light to I . can the Minister reassure we about the cost , the capacity in the system and the ability for police force to do this properly ? when this SI land , will we see some action out there on the street ? I be concerned we will see broadly what happen after the Blair - Brown reform to cannabis possession . if the House remember , at the tail end of that particular period in our political history , the notion be bring in of a cannabis warning , and then a cannabis penalty of 90 quid for police to hand out for pure possession . what happen be that we see a bit of a bump in number , and then it tail off , because the police realise there be little effect and it be not cost - effective to do it . the number diminish over the year . as the Minister will know , a White Paper last year look at a different set of consequence for possession , but in the absence of a response to that White Paper , I be keen to hear from he what the plan will be once the SI be in place , because as he and I both know , the policy be not the product ; the product be what happen out there on the street . we be hold out a promise to our community up and down the land that they will see few of these ampoule and less antisocial behaviour as a consequence . I hope there be an action plan . my second point be to ask about unintended consequence . one of the characteristic of my youth in Liverpool in the 1970 and 1980 be the group of young people gather together to sniff glue . it be a horrible thing to do and obviously have a serious impact on their brain . the chemical be even more noxious than this particular substance , so how will the Minister ensure that there be not a diversion towards those kind of substance and the resumption of glue - sniff in park and playground instead of take this gas ? if he can reassure I on both those point , I will be happy to support the SI . rise — Order . before I call Alison Thewliss , I point out that , as member can see , there be a bit of interest in the debate . I will not impose a time limit , but I intend to call the Minister no later than 6 . 30 pm . if there be to be division , they will come when the Minister sit down . it be pretty unusual that I come to a debate entitle " dangerous drug " where I have direct experience of have take some of those dangerous drug , because I live a very quiet life . however , for many in the Chamber — woman in particular — nitrous oxide will have be well experience as gas and air , which , when use under medical supervision , be generally a very safe drug , although my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) would tell we that she have a collapse lung as a result of her use of it . it be not something to be take lightly , but I would certainly dispute whether it be a dangerous drug . as the Minister point out , nitrous oxide be not an uncontrolled substance . non - legitimate use for psychoactive effect be currently control under the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 , and the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs point out that production , supply and importation be illegal . there be an offence to supply if the person know or be reckless as to whether it will be use for psychoactive effect . in 2015 , the advisory council do not advise control under the Misuse of Drugs Act , and in March 2023 it advise exactly the same , so I be curious as to why the Minister be so light on his reason for ignore his expert adviser , who have look at this in great detail . we be hardly in the realm of evidence - base policy . he have decide that he must do something , and that this be something . that be why we be here . we do not dismiss the public nuisance of these substance . we have all see the silvery capsule litter in the street — they be a particular hazard to cyclist — and in part of my constituency I have also see some of the large canister discard , but all of that could be say for other drug . as the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) say , we see beer can litter all over our street regularly . in part of my constituency we see syrinx litter about the place , and the Government do nothing about it because they do not want people to have safe consumption room to take their drug . somehow uniquely , the Government seem concern by the small canister and the public nuisance of nitrous oxide . nothing that the Minister say have give I any reassurance on that . he say nothing really about the supply of these substance , because clearly they be be sell to people against the current legal framework , which be illegal . it will be interesting to hear from the Minister on sum up how many people have be arrest , charge and jail for supply of this substance under the current rule . if it be zero , he have a bit of a cheek come here and ask we to agree to further legislation . what conversation have the Minister have with social medium company ? one of my member of staff , Mhairi Love , see an advert on Facebook for nitrous oxide be sell online . again , how many prosecution have happen for that supply for entirely illegitimate purpose , which would fall under the current legislation and be prosecutable ? the hon . Lady make a very important point about how it be easy to get hold of this stuff . these little canister can be buy in corner shop , and they can also be buy by the pallet - load for £ 18 , 000 , which would keep an entire festival go for the weekend . she be right that those people should be arrest for supply it , but it be also important to ensure that we limit the market to buy it , and if we clamp down on the market where people buy it , that will dry up the supply . that be not how the market work . we have have the Misuse of Drugs Act for 50 year and it have not stop anybody from take heroin , cocaine or anything else . those drug be quite moreish and people tend to keep take they regardless of the legislation put before they to deter they . it do not work . what we need to do be go after the supplier , but from what the Minister say it seem to I that the Government have no intention of do that . the Minister also talk about the broad legitimate use and the regulation he will bring forward on that . without see they , it be difficult to see how effective this will be . if that legitimate use be incredibly broad — it must be to allow people to continue to buy the substance to run their caf é s and produce whip cream — he will find it very difficult to continue that enforcement game . we have no sight of those regulation tonight , so I argue that it would be irresponsible of the House to pass this statutory instrument without have see the other part of the equation . be there not a danger that the " broad use " clause will mean that good , middle - class white people , with house where they can consume this drug in private , will be able to continue to do so and poor , working - class young people in park , possibly predominantly black , asian and minority ethnic , will end up be criminalise , as with many other drug ? that be a legitimate question and a legitimate risk , but I do not see it in the Government ' s impact assessment . there be also nothing about the preventive action that the ACMD talk about in its report . there be nothing about a public health campaign , education or wide knowledge of the health impact of the drug , which the acmd recommend that the Government take forward . there be thing such as B12 deficiency , nerve damage , incontinence and erectile dysfunction , but the Government be not promote a plan of how to disseminate that information to people . I worry — as do the neurologist who have write to the Government with their concern about further regulation and criminalisation — about stigmatise people who have use this substance and want come forward and get support . criminalisation will make they less likely to come forward . by criminalise , the Misuse of Drugs Act dissuade people , particularly woman , from come forward for help . the Government have say nothing tonight or in the impact assessment about whether people be less likely to come forward for medical support for have use the substance if they be criminalise . furthermore , if kid be use the drug , what support service do the Government intend to put in place to tackle addiction in that age group ? if that be a problem , what be the Government ' s specific response for addiction support for young people who abuse the drug ? the Minister have nothing to say on that whatsoever . let I come to the position of Scotland on this issue . the Scottish Government respond to the ACMD report on the use of nitrous oxide and be crystal clear , say : " the scottish government have and will continue to promote a public health approach , rather than continue the fail war on drug . it be our view that ban nitrous oxide will far criminalise people for their drug use , serve only to heap additional harm on vulnerable individual , our young people and community while do little to improve the health of these individual . " the point about health be absolutely crucial . the Government have say nothing about the health impact of the drug and intervene on it . what they have outline in the impact assessment be the cost . they say , in an incredibly vague paragraph on page 15 : " total cost across all monetise set up and ongoing cost be estimate to be between £ 19 . 6 to £ 178 . 1 million … with a central estimate of £ 67 . 9 million … over the 10 - year appraisal period . " that be an incredibly wide range . the Government , again , be not explain exactly why they should pass the legislation . they also say at the top of page 19 : " there be limited evidence available to estimate how nitrous oxide misuse may change follow the intervention . " they want to spend ten of million of pound and they do not even know whether the intervention will have an impact . frame this issue under the Misuse of Drugs Act do not recognise tackling addiction as a public health issue . it be a public health issue . we can not arrest our way out of a public health issue . it do not tackle the reason why people be take this drug in the first place , not do it tackle supply or public health . the Home Affairs Committee recently conclude in its report on drug that the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 and the Misuse of Drugs Regulations 2001 require reform . the report say : " we recommend that the UK Government reform the 1971 Act and 2001 Regulations in a way that promote a great role for public health in our response to drug , whilst maintain our law enforcement to tackle the illicit production and supply of control drug . " this SI do nothing about production and supply , and nothing about public health . we be here tonight because the Government have decide that something must be do , and this be something . the Scottish National party oppose this SI and will vote against it tonight . it criminalise people at unclear cost . there be no sense of tackle the source , reduce demand or treat this as a public health issue . it be bang on form — if I may say so , Mr Deputy Speaker — that the Labour party be go along with this unevidenced drivel . in Scotland , we want a humane drug policy . we have a caring and compassionate human right - inform drug policy for Scotland , but we do not yet have the power to implement it . until such time as the Scottish Government have full control over all our power as a normal independent country , we seek the devolution of drug law to allow we to deal with they as a public health issue , as they should be . it be a pleasure to follow the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) . I do not disagree with much of what she say . I believe the Government will achieve very little through these measure , except perhaps to cause considerable disruption to industry and the medicinal use of nitrous oxide . I be far from convince by the change reassurance give by the Minister at the Dispatch Box in that respect . I once again draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a practise NHS psychiatrist . until recently , I be work as an act addiction consultant psychiatrist and I have deal with the misuse of drug extensively throughout my medical career . I believe in an evidence - base approach to policymake . this issue have be examine by the acmd at the request of the Government . the acmd suggest very clearly that this be not the appropriate legislative vehicle to deal with nitrous oxide . it make that recommendation for two reason . first , we already have the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 , so if we want to deal with the illegitimate sale and supply of nitrous oxide there be already legislation in place to do that . secondly , we have other law that can be use , for example to deal with the unacceptable littering that sometimes occur with the canister use in the recreational use of nitrous oxide . be my hon . friend aware that the acmd be ask many year ago to opine on exactly this point and it be chase up by two Home Secretaries to try to get a response ? it be not until this statutory instrument be first talk about early this year that the acmd get around to answer the Government ' s request to make a judgment . I be aware that it take some time to compile acmd report . the reason be that the ACMD like to look at the evidence in the round . there be a number of issue to look at here , such as harm of use . there be relatively limited evidence and datum to suggest that nitrous oxide be substantially more harmful than many of the substance we use daily , such as caffeine . use caffeine to great excess have very profound and immediate health consequence , as do alcohol . the point be make by the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) about the Notting Hill carnival and the number of beer can and other form of rubbish leave there . if we look at the social and health harm of alcohol , which be a legal drug and one that be misuse legally , they be considerably more profound than what we be talk about or indeed many other street drug . can my hon . friend clarify to the House what his conclusion be on this matter ? be he say that he oppose the measure , or be he say that if the measure go ahead he want the Government to keep the matter under review ? if the House divide this evening I will be vote against the measure for the further reason I be about to outline . I think it would be helpful to remind the Minister what the ACMD actually say with regard to legislation : " base on this harm assessment , the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 remain the appropriate drug legislation to tackle supply of nitrous oxide for non - legitimate use . there be , however , a need for enforcement of the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 to be support by additional intervention design to reduce health and social harm . base on this harm assessment , nitrous oxide should not be subject to control under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 for the follow reason " . those reason have be draw out to some extent during the debate , but they be neatly summarise by the acmd in its recommendation to the Government in its report . first , " Level of health and social harm " , which be relatively limited , and " current evidence suggest that the health and social harm be not commensurate with control under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 . " secondly , " proportionality of sanction : the offence under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 would be disproportionate for the level of harm associate with nitrous oxide and could have significant unintended consequence . " thirdly , " impact on legitimate use : control under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 could produce significant burden for legitimate medical , industrial , commercial , and academic use . the current scale and number of legitimate use that stand to be affect be unknown but be estimate to be large . " I think it be fairly clear that the Government do not carry out a proper impact assessment before bring this measure to the House . I thank my good friend for allow I to intervene . do that mean that he think we should do nothing at all ? no , I do not think it mean we should do nothing . I think that if we believe , as I think many of we do , that we should control the illegitimate supply of nitrous oxide , we should look at exist legislation , such as the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 , which be design and take through its stage by my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) . this point be discuss at some length during its passage . the focus be not on criminalise use and the potential user , but on control the supply : a clear distinction be draw . the Minister may correct this view , but the acmd make it clear in its report that well enforcement of that exist legislation to control illegitimate supply would be a much well and more proportionate way of deal with the issue at hand , and the same be suggest more broadly in the evidence supply to the acmd while it be compile its report . so there be already a legitimate mean of deal with this , but unfortunately there be the potential for unintended consequence , and I be not reassure when the Minister say early that the Government would introduce another measure — which no one in the House have see as yet — to ensure that there would be no such unintended consequence . if a government be introduce two good piece of legislation , they should introduce both of they together so that the House can consider they in the round . my concern be that primary legislation such as the Misuse of Drugs Act be tightly draw , and unless it be amend , it be difficult to introduce another measure to sit beneath it and mitigate its provision . I be therefore not reassure by the Minister ' s comment , but in any event it be not good or effective government not to present the two measure at the same time so that we could consider the issue in the round . because I believe that there be already legislation in place which need to be well enforce to deal with illegitimate supply , and because I do not believe that the Government have give adequate weight or consideration to the potential unintended consequence for legitimate user of nitrous oxide — which the Minister effectively admit in his opening comment — I believe that the Government be in the wrong place at present , and that it would have be well to produce a proper impact assessment of the legitimate use to sit alongside this measure before bring it to the attention of the House . for all those reason , I will vote against the order if it be put to a vote . to my constituent nitrous oxide be an irritant , manifest itself in the plethora of canister that we see cluster in certain place — seemingly in never - end number , judge by the number that my constituent and I collect during our litter pick . however , for user of nitrous oxide there be a far more serious side . pick up on the comment by the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) , it seem obvious that the power of the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 have not be effective , because we be here today talk about this . I have come to a different conclusion to he , though , on what we should do with this regulation . we know from investigation by the like of Sky News that it be very easy to acquire this drug . it be describe as be as " easy as buy bread " . it be probably cheap at the moment as well . the Sky News investigator find that age verification be skip and that balloon be offer in accompaniment to cannister , so there be no pretence at all that those sale be for legitimate purpose . that ease and the apparent openness about the intend use of the gas be astonishing , especially give that someone can end up with a seven - year prison sentence for sell it , but with just 31 and 49 report conviction in 2020 and 2021 respectively , it be clear that only a tiny fraction of the transgression be lead to action . More than this , it be fail the predominantly young people who be consume the substance . it appear that the potential side effect of the drug be underappreciated . to many , it be consider harmless and short - lasting , but there be mount evidence that there be significant issue , particularly for those who regularly consume large amount of the drug . I have speak to the family of those who have be affect . between 2001 and 2020 there be 56 register death involve nitrous oxide , most of which have take place in the last decade . while that figure be relatively low compare with benzodiazepine , for which over 2 , 000 death be register in the same period , the fact that some of those heavy user have develop myeloneuropathy , which cause damage to tract of the spinal cord and nerve , should not be overlook . medical professional have warn of a notable increase in the number of people require medical intervention as a result of use the drug . datum release by the London Ambulance Service show an almost 500 % increase in the number of incident relate to nitrous oxide between 2018 and 2022 , with more than a triple in the number of call between 2021 and 2022 . if those trend in London be be reflect across the country , we be in the middle of a rude awakening about the consequence of this so - call safe drug . certainly , my constituent whose son be admit to hospital after rupture his lung follow inhalation of nitrous oxide would attest to the need for great awareness of the risk of take it . she have certainly do her bit in highlight her son ' s hospitalisation , but it really should not be up to she to point out the danger of nitrous oxide . there be also the impact of nitrous oxide usage on community . as we have hear , it cause a significant amount of litter and environmental damage . constituent be feed up with have to see collection of small container litter in park and on street corner . in my constituency , user be now graduate to the large canister , which be even more unsightly and presumably cause far more damage than the little canister . constituent be feed up with the antisocial behaviour that often come along with this , and there be also a danger when people drive vehicle have inhale nitrous oxide . accord to the acmd , that misuse when driving account for 20 % of the death associate with nitrous oxide in the last half century . I support the Government ' s motion today but there be question that have be leave unanswered , which many member have pick up on . I know that various option be be consider for the licensing regime , which the Minister talk about . it be clear to I that just classify nitrous oxide under these regulation without deal with the licensing regime will not be sufficient . it will just criminalise those use it instead of tackle the problem of those supply the drug for non - legitimate purpose , which appear to account for the majority of sale . those glare loophole have raise concern . one of my constituent whose family have be impact worry that this be a knee - jerk reaction from the Government and that they have not properly consider the view of healthcare professional , addiction service and those with live experience . she also have concern about unintended consequence as a result of this legislation . it would have be extremely helpful if we have have full detail of the licensing regime when we be consider this statutory instrument today . this legislation be only go to work if we have a properly enforce licensing regime that be effective in deal with non - legitimate sale . if we be go to support this motion , we need to be assure that there will be an effective licensing regime come off the back of it . of course , we be cognisant of the fact that criminalise this substance must be accompany by other measure , such as increase community police . the impact assessment state : " investigation cost to the Police have not be estimate . " surely , if use remain as ubiquitous as it be now , it will have a huge impact on police resource , unless user be give a free pass . give that thousand of kid be currently inhale nitrous oxide without any police intervention at all , I wonder what the approach will be to enforcement , unless we expect the cell to clog up . paragraph 58 of the impact assessment state : " it be estimate that between 8 and 63 … additional prison place will need to be build . " this imply that there will be some enforcement action , and it come with a price tag of between £ 2 million and £ 15 . 8 million , which be not an inconsiderable figure . can the Minister advise we on where these new prison place will appear ? it look like this will lead to at least some people end up in prison . there also need to be a campaign to increase awareness of this new criminal liability , because young people have be inhale nitrous oxide without any criminal consequence . that campaign need to be accompany by a well awareness campaign on the danger of inhale nitrous oxide , be it criminalisation or hospitalisation . People who see it as a bit of harmless fun need to know that there be consequence . I refer the House to my outside interest on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I bear the scar of be on the Treasury Bench in 2016 when , as my hon . friend the Member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) allude to , I take through the primary legislation on what most people call " legal high " or synthetic drug . we have many a debate , like we be have this evening , on how far that legislation should go and what it should contain . I learn an awful lot during the Bill ' s passage — I take it all the way through — about certain habit and certain use of certain product . we discuss nitrous oxide , and at the time I be comfortable with it be exactly where it be until today . I agree with many colleague on both side of the House that the enforcement envisage when we pass that legislation have not materialise in quite the way we would have like . corner shop be sell legal high and , sadly , there be some really tragic death . People be not only hospitalise but long - term hospitalise , and parent lose young child , so we have to pass that legislation . alongside this statutory instrument we should have more enforcement , although I know that not everyone in the House agree . local government could do more , and it be ask for these power . my constituent be feed up to the hind tooth with their park and street be turn into dump . I have many beautiful park in my constituency , and I recently speak to the gardener responsible for look after Gadebridge Park . I be astonish when they tell I of the sheer quantity of these little capsule — we also have some degree of the large one come through now . I stand to be correct , but do not think these little capsule be for commercial use . they be specifically manufacture for the predominantly young people who think nitrous oxide be safe , which be massively dangerous . when we have the debate back in 2016 , we hear that the same language be be use to indicate that legal high be safe . nitrous oxide , or " laugh gas " as it be call by those who want to undermine the argument we be make today , be not safe . it be dangerous . some people use it will feel , at the stage they have be use it now — God know what will happen far down the line — that it be okay and have have no effect on they . however , like other who have speak this evening , I have hear from my constituent of instance where nitrous oxide have have a devastating effect on their young child . it appear that young and young child be use this product and it be become increasingly freely available . I support this measure and will go through the Lobby in support of it , but legitimate question have be raise in the House today . if we pass legislation , we have to feel that it be go to make a difference and be enforceable . I do not quite know how my local police force in Hertfordshire be go to be able to enforce this . I do not know how it enforce the legislation , which I vote against , on people smoke in their car if there be a young person there . we all know that that legislation be right and logical , but it be almost unenforceable and there have be almost no prosecution . so there be a lot more work to be do , and the Minister be go to have some of the scar that I have on my back as a result of this , but what we be do be right . let I go back to the issue of advice . minister get advice from many different place — colleague , expert , their civil servant and their special adviser — but at the end of the day they have to make the decision . on the decision that this Minister have make , there will be work to be do when we bring the further secondary legislation through , and we might need to amend primary legislation in the distant future . we have hear from both Front Benchers that there be no intention to do that imminently , which will disappoint some in the House this evening . however , it be right to concentrate on what we can do today in this House to protect our constituent and their loved one , and I hope that this legislation will do that . rise — as I say , I will be call the Minister at 6 . 30 pm , if not before . three member wish to speak . if you could all help one another so that everybody get in , that would be really useful . I call Ronnie Cowan . I be delighted to hear that there be move afoot to change the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 , because if ever a piece of legislation need change , it be the 1971 Act — it be follow closely by the Gambling Act 2005 , but that be for another day . there be so many thing wrong with the 1971 Act . it be bad legislation in its day and for more than 50 year it have ensure that people be criminalise , stigmatise and ostracise . it have create division in society and lead to unnecessary pain and suffering . that should not be a surprise to anyone , because that be what it be design to do . it be never intend to provide support for those harm by drug . it be never base on compassion . it be never mean to address the issue associate with recreational drug use . therefore it come as no surprise that in the past 50 year thing have simply get bad . sadly , today , rather than right some of the wrong by decriminalise or legalise drug , and rather than strive for drug consumption room , safe consumption facility , naloxone provision , medication assist treatment , education and support , we be be ask to make matter bad . we be be ask to turn a blind eye to the evidence and learn nothing from the misclassification of cannabis ; instead , we now want to persecute more people with the continued aim of arrest our way out of a drug crisis . it be widely acknowledge that give the many legitimate use of nitrous oxide , enforcement will be a nightmare . currently , the Government have three licensing proposal but be still in consultation over which to adopt . perhaps the Minister can clarify that in his response . quite why we be pursue the reclassification before we have sort out the licensing be beyond I . in the meantime , we be be ask to remove this regulated substance and create a marketplace for criminal to fill with who know what — it be absolutely bonker . as Steve Rolles say in Conservativehome : " empower " — and enrich — " criminal group will fuel violence and anti - social behaviour , not reduce it . " I be a bit sceptical , as we be talk about nitrous oxide use as though it be a much hard drug . a lot of the kid take it , certainly those in Wolverhampton , be not harden drug user , but young people who do not think they be do anything wrong . they do not hear about the medical risk , and this drug be so cheap and so widely available . surely the Government be do the right thing in nip this in the bud so that these young people do not go down the road of fall in with the wrong crowd and continually move on to hard drug . my point be that the Government be not nip this be in the bud . what will happen here be that they will hand this over to the criminal fraternity , and kid who want to take drug will continue to take drug , but now we will not know what they be take and it could be do they more harm . meanwhile , they will be arrest and give a criminal record , which will live with they for the rest of their day . that be not help the situation at all . I be just go to say that this change will result in people be arrest and convict . that conviction will lead to stigma and damage employment opportunity , housing , personal finance , travel and relationship . that be what we have be do for 50 year , and that have be a rolling success , have it not ? there be little or no evidence that say that this action will address — [ interruption . ] do the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) want to intervene ? indicate dissent . there be little or no evidence that say that this action will address the problem . can the Minister provide I with one example — just one — over 50 year where arrest someone for personal possession and give they a criminal record have help reduce the misuse of drug ? as have be highlight already in this debate , the problem of antisocial behaviour and littering can be address through exist legislation properly apply . this change be drive by the Government ' s desire to be see to be come down hard on crime and , by do so , they be ignore evidence from their own expert body , the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs , along with the Royal Society of Medicine , the World Health Organisation and the United Nations . the focus should be on education , not punishment . this change do nothing to address the question of why people fall into addiction , or indeed why they take drug in the first place . it do nothing to reduce criminality ; it just push it on to the consumer . it do nothing to make people safe . it create a vacuum for criminal to fill . it be a wolf whistle to the " hang ' em high " brigade and it be typical of the lack of long - term strategic planning that be require . there be no short - term solution ; no magic wand exist . finally , continue to bolster a policy that have not work for 50 year will only add to the misery and pain that have already be inflict . it be time to think outside the box and radically overhaul this Act and make it fit for the 21st century , where drug harm be a health issue and not a matter for the criminal justice system . have have a Westminster Hall debate on exactly this subject a few month ago , I do not propose to take up too much of the House ' s time . I just want to thank the Minister for listen to that debate and actually take action as a result . I get involve in this matter as a result of be lobby by BBC Hereford & Worcester and Dr David Nicholl , a liberal Democrat councillor in Bromsgrove , who be a neurologist . he highlight for I the damage that nitrous oxide do to kid . he liken it to an electrical appliance that have have the insulation strip off the wiring inside it and then expect that electrical appliance to carry on work . this be what it do to your nerve and it be a huge problem for people who take it . there have be a lot of debate this afternoon about the fact that the measure will criminalise people and that we should be attack the supplier rather than the user . at the end of the day , if something be call laugh gas and be say to be a harmless drug — a harmless and safe high — that mislead people into think that it be perfectly safe to take . but it be not perfectly safe ; it have profound implication for people ' s health . it be absolutely terrible . the hon . member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) make the important point that we be go to be criminalise people . ultimately , of course , some people will be criminalise , but be it not worth a small number of people be criminalise to act as a deterrent for the majority who — it have not be prove to be a deterrent . look at the number that we have across the United Kingdom . have arrest people and criminalise they ever be prove to be a deterrent ? it be always very difficult to prove a negative . I take the hon . member ' s point , but I be happy that we will be provide a deterrent for kid of the generation of my child ; that be what I care about . I be incredibly grateful to the Minister for listen , incredibly grateful to Dr David Nicholl , a neurologist , for give I scientific evidence to support his campaign , and incredibly grateful to BBC Hereford & Worcester . as with all these issue , we be remind of particular communication that we have from constituent . when I be prepare for my Westminster Hall debate , I receive an email from somebody who want to talk about her brother . he be a very talented sportsman who be possibly go to play rugby for England . he be also a talented investment banker — I know we do not always like investment banker — with a very good career ahead of he in the City of London . he find nitrous oxide , think it be a harmless high , but within a year he have commit suicide as a result of the damage he have do to his system . if we know that be a possible outcome , I do not think it be right to do anything other than send a very strong message that this be a dangerous drug . criminalise it send that message to try to put people off use it . I rise with great scepticism about this measure , because it be use an Act that be fundamentally flawed . the 1971 Act do not work . it do not work in criminalise people or in reduce drug use , drug death or drug harm . in fact , the evidence across comparable country , especially Portugal and other southern european country , be that the Act increase the harm for people . it drive people away from get treatment and support . I be also sceptical about the slight moral panic . that be not to dismiss the marginal case of horrible and acute harm for those affect , include death in the bad circumstance — by the way , we have caffeine death in this country — and heart , lung and neurological problem . as the Minister say , this be the most widely take drug by young people , but the harm cause do not even rank in the top 50 harm cause to young people . the idea that this drug be cause great harm be just not true . Most people use this drug . I have use it at the dentist . People have use it in hospital setting . but most people use the drug recreationally , harmlessly and acceptably . my view be that that be fine . I have not use the drug recreationally , but I have be in room where top judge from the High Court , lawyer , senior politician and celebrity have use these kind of drug , and other drug , and it cause they no harm . the police do not come knock at their door , because the usage be behind closed door by wealthy people , predominantly white , who be out of sight and out of mind . the state do not mind . this classification will target poor people , young people , and predominantly people from ethnic minority . we know that be the case because that be what have happen with all other form of drug taking , where large number of people from different demographic take the drug but the law criminalise a specific set of demographic . that be the fundamental problem with the 1971 Act — it target people and community , rather than help they get off the drug they be addict to or to move to a safe space . this measure will make thing bad . the measure will also make thing bad in term of gang and criminal syndicate . it should come as no surprise : the Conservative Government have be give get - out clause to criminal gang for the last 10 year in many other sector , through bung to their mate or legislation that allow dodgy dealing . but this measure will move this trade underground . it will suddenly mean that a premium can be charge on this particular drug . it will mean that people will not know what be in the canister safely . it will mean more death and it will mean profit for criminal gang — they will go laugh to the bank . the people who really want this measure be the gang . the people who really want the continuation of the 1971 Act be the gang . I want the Government and my party to stop be the cheerleader of gang and criminal , because while they continue to cheerlead for the 1971 Act , that be what they be . let we look at the evidence of what the Government ' s own Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs say : that this drug have no effect on crime whatsoever at the moment . there be no evidence that it cause or exacerbate crime , although there be some minor evidence that it cause antisocial behaviour . I suggest to hon . member that the antisocial behaviour be not really cause by laugh gas ; it be cause by the fact that there be young people hang around park and bench with nothing well to do , because youth service have be slash in this country and billion of pound take out of support service . People who live in miserable accommodation , who do not have live room to sit in because they live in horrible , filthy bedsit , who be out on the street in the evening try to while away the hour and take the edge off their often miserable and difficult life , because they be in absolute poverty or they have other social issue around they , and there be no one in the state to support they — that be what be antisocial . yes , for the person in their nice big house who do not want to be disturb in the evening it be a bit of a frustration , but those thing can be deal with , just as we deal with many other issue . the same argument can also be make on litter ; it be a reason , surely , to move to producer responsibility , where we have stamp and mark on the canister so we can see who be supply those canister and ensure that supplier of those canister be punish properly . many of my constituent think we should do that with the plastic cup strew on our beach , because we do not know which bar have give they out and not pick they up . I agree with that . I think that for waste and recycling we need to move to a completely different model , but that be not a model of criminalise young people . this measure be criminalise young people , because the only change here be to criminalise young people . if there be a way to stop this substance be produce , if there be a way to ensure that people can enjoy themselves — personally , I do not have a problem with people enjoy themselves with drug — but in a safe way that do not cause antisocial behaviour , I would be all for it . however , I be afraid that all this measure will do be exacerbate the situation . personally , I would like not to have a vote on this measure today , because I think it would be well for the Government to go away and rethink it , give the cross - party opposition to it , and to find a way forward . if there be a vote , I be afraid I will , very reluctantly , not to be able to support the Government on this . this have be an interesting and wide - range discussion , and I will try to conclude relatively briefly . I start by thank the shadow Minister for his support for this measure in principle ; it be good to start off on this note of cross - party consensus , which I hope will continue for the remainder of his tenure in his new role . he ask some question , as do my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , about plan for enforcement and the resource that will be dedicate to this issue . I can confirm that it be something we expect the police to be focus on . the shadow Minister also ask about the antisocial behaviour action plan . it be true that we be start with pilot in just 10 force area do the antisocial behaviour hotspot patrol , but in April of next year that will expand to all 43 police force across England and Wales , back by around £ 43 million pound of extra new funding to make sure those ASB hotspot patrol be out and about , both deal with antisocial behaviour more widely and look specifically at the issue of nitrous oxide consumption . there be a number of question about prison place . we be in the process of build more than 20 , 000 extra prison place . we expect this measure to have a significant deterrent effect on the consumption of the drug . as my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) say , reduce consumption will reduce the incentive to supply the drug as well . we expect it to be enforce . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) for his work on the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 . some member ask about the action that follow , and I think my right hon . friend can take pride in the fact that 332 retailer stop sell psychoactive substance as a result of his legislation , and that there have be at least 230 prosecution under that Act , which , of course , cover nitrous oxide . I think I say early that it regulate nitrous oxide , but it would be more accurate to say that it cover it . there have be some discussion about the acmd . I put on the record again my thank to that council for its work advise the Government . we almost always follow the acmd ' s advice , although there have be occasion , include under the last Labour Government , when the Government have take a slightly broad and different view , for reason that many member , include my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) and the shadow Minister , have outline . we have take a slightly different and broad view in consider the social harm and our concern that the harm and paralysis the substance cause may get bad if its use be allow to spread , but we have also consult the acmd on how we will go about implement the legislation . we have do a public consultation on implementation , and the report be publish on 5 September , make it clear that there will be a wide - range exemption for legitimate use . some member ask about legitimate use . we will amend the Misuse of Drugs Regulations 2001 to make it clear that legitimate use be any use that do not involve inhalation by a human . inhalation by a human for research and medical purpose will , of course , be lawful . I hope that that give the little extra clarity that member ask for . a couple of member refer to people who consume the substance medically . of course , when people consume nitrous oxide at the dentist ' s or in the context of give birth , they be be supervise by a medical professional . in the case of give birth , an anaesthetist be typically supervise the administration of the drug . that be necessary because it be potentially very harmful . a few comment have be make about the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 more widely . I do not propose to go into that in detail , save to say that if we consider jurisdiction where they have take an incredibly permissive view , such as San Francisco , it have not result in more people go into treatment ; it have lead to a significant increase in death as a result of drug overdose , particularly from synthetic opioid , and to widescale disorder on the street . I do not accept the thesis that we can have treatment only if we liberalise drug law and have out - of - control public consumption , as in some american city . we do not want that happen in this country . that be why a combination of go after drug supply at the border and go after criminal gang be important , combine with the funding of treatment , which we be do with an extra £ 582 million for treatment over three year , and record police number . we have 149 , 566 police officer — more than ever before . the measure , which I hope we will vote through this evening , will help we to combat antisocial behaviour across the country . it will protect people — particularly young people , but adult as well — from the medical harm that the drug can do . it be a critical part of the Government ' s battle against antisocial behaviour . I commend the order to the House . question put . Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Kevin Brennan Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Lyn Brown Nick Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Karen Buck Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Rob Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Alan Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Sarah Champion Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Steve Double Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Maria Eagle Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Bill Esterson George Eustice Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Marcus Fysh Barry Gardiner Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Emma Hardy Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes John Hayes Oliver Heald John Healey Gordon Henderson Mark Hendrick Darren Henry Damian hind Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes George Howarth Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Greg Knight Danny Kruger Peter Kyle David Lammy John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Simon Lightwood Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Holly Lynch Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Keir Mather Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Maria Miller Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell James Murray Sheryll Murray Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline noke Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Taiwo Owatemi Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Stephanie Peacock Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Steve Reed Christina Rees Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Naseem Shah Alok Sharma Virendra Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Royston Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Sam Tarry Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Maggie Throup Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Jon Trickett Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Derek Twigg Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Andrew Western Matt Western Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Beth Winter Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Fay Jones Mhairi Black Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Lisa Cameron Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Martyn Day Allan Dorans Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Neale Hanvey Adam Holloway Ben Lake Chris Law Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Stuart McDonald John Nicolson Daniel Poulter Anum Qaisar Bell Ribeiro - Addy Liz Saville - Roberts Chris Stephens Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Kirsty Blackman Hannah Bardell the House divide : Ayes 404 , Noes 36 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that the draft Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 5 September , be approve . business without Debate we now have a number of motion , which I be go to take separately . delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Council Tax that the draft Mayoral and Police and Crime Commissioner Elections , Recall Petitions and Referendums ( Ballot Secrecy , Candidates and Undue Influence ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 July , be approve . — ( Jacob Young . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Representation of the People ( Franchise Amendment and Eligibility Review ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 July , be approve . — ( Jacob Young . ) question agree to . Police that the draft Representation of the People ( Postal and Proxy Voting etc . ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 July , be approve . — ( Jacob Young . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Caroline Dinenage Jonathan djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian hind Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Fay Jones Amanda Solloway Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Sarah Champion Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Chris Evans Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan James Murray Lisa Nandy Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Steve Reed Christina Rees Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Christian Wakeford Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 278 , Noes 148 . question accordingly agree to . with the leave of the House , we shall take motion 9 to 12 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Northern Ireland that the draft Local Elections ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 4 September , be approve . representation of the People that the draft Representation of the People and Recall Petition ( Northern Ireland ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 4 September , be approve . consumer Protection that the draft Product Security and Telecommunications Infrastructure ( Security Requirements for Relevant Connectable Products ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 10 July , be approve . Northern Ireland that the Northern Ireland ( Ministerial Appointment Functions ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 776 ) , date 10 July 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 10 July , be approve . — ( Jacob Young . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , exit the European Union that the draft Windsor Framework ( Enforcement etc . ) regulation 2023 , which be lay before this House on 4 September , be approve . — ( Jacob Young . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . restoration and Renewal Programme Board Resolved , that this House ( 1 ) note the report from the House of Commons Commission and the House of Lords Commission on the membership of the Restoration and Renewal Programme Board , HC 1792 , date 6 September 2023 ; and ( 2 ) appoint Dr Mich è le Dix as an external member of the Board . — ( Sir Charles Walker , on behalf of the House of Commons Commission . ) committee with the leave of the House , we will take motion 15 to 22 together . order , Business and Trade that Alan Brown be discharge from the Business and Trade Committee and Douglas Chapman be add . defence that Dave Doogan be discharge from the Defence Committee and Martin Docherty - Hughes be add . Foreign Affairs that Drew Hendry be discharge from the Foreign Affairs Committee and Brendan O ' Hara be add . Health and Social Care that Martyn Day be discharge from the Health and Social Care Committee and Amy Callaghan be add . justice that Stuart C McDonald be discharge from the Justice Committee and Chris Stephens be add . Procedure that Owen Thompson be discharge from the Procedure Committee and Kirsty Blackman be add . Treasury that Douglas Chapman be discharge from the Treasury Committee and Drew Hendry be add . woman and Equalities that Ms Anum Qaisar be discharge from the Women and Equalities Committee and Kirsten Oswald be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - NoneLevenshulme Station and Gorton Station Ticket Office closure I rise to present a petition about the propose closure of ticket office at Levenshulme and Gorton train station , which will lead to difficulty for many railway passenger and the loss of vital job , and be likely to prevent people from use public transport . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to prevent the closure of Levenshulme Station and Gorton Stations ' ticket office . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Manchester Gorton , declare that Levenshulme Station and Gorton Station ' s ticket office be vital for resident of the area ; note that by close these ticket office , vital job will be lose ; far declare that ticket office be helpful for the old population and those with disability , who may have difficulty use ticket machine ; far declare that this loss may prevent people from want to use train in the future . the petitioner therefore urge the House of Commons to urge the Government to prevent the closure of Levenshulme Station and Gorton Stations ' ticket office . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002853 ] petition - Dynamic Pricing Strategy I rise to present a petition from the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk regard the dynamic pricing strategy , which , along with secondary ticket selling , be a disgraceful , exploitative practice that rip off many of our constituent and even deny they access to event . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to acknowledge these problem and reconsider introduce further regulation in this area , or support an inquiry into the practice of ticket sale and distribution company operate in the UK . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that there be frustration with the dynamic pricing strategy and secondary ticket selling within the UK market ; acknowledge the unfairness of increase price to an unreasonable level and reselling of ticket at grossly inflate price ; note the recent publicise problem with entry to event that these practice cause ; and believe that urgent action should be take to mitigate these issue . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to acknowledge these problem and reconsider introduce further regulation in this area , or support an inquiry into the practice of ticket sale and distribution company operate in the UK . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002854 ] petition - Reddish North Station Ticket Office closure I rise to present a petition about the closure of reddish North station ticket office . its closure , alongside the propose closure of neighbouring ticket office use by my constituent , include those at Guide Bridge , Heaton Chapel , Gorton and Belle Vue station , and other local station such as Levenshulme , Mauldeth Road and Burnage , will cost job and make our railway less accessible . the petitioner therefore " request the House of Commons to urge the Government to prevent the closure of reddish North ticket office . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Denton and Reddish , declare that Reddish North ' s ticket office be vital for resident of the area ; note that by close this ticket office , vital job will be lose ; far declare that ticket office be helpful for vulnerable customer and those who may have difficulty use ticket machine ; far declare that this loss may prevent people from want to use train in the future . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to prevent the closure of reddish North ticket office . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] RSE curriculum : Northern Ireland Schools Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to address this most important issue today in the House . I do so with the support of my colleague in the Democratic Unionist party , include our leader , the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , and the deputy leader , the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , who unfortunately have a prior engagement . let I say at the outset — this be no slight on the Minister respond — that it be disappointing yet not surprising that neither the Secretary of State nor the Minister of State be in this place to respond today . once again , that show a lack of connection with the issue that matter . although the investment conference in Belfast be important , so too be the very foundation stone of our society , our child and their education . one thing I have learn in my time in politic be that government mess with child ' s education at their peril ; they do not meddle in issue where parent be — and should be — first educator ; and they certainly do not do it without consult and engage with parent , teacher and board of governor . parent in Northern Ireland be genuinely angry and fearful . teacher feel vulnerable and fearful , yet this Government continue on a track of potential wide - reach change to the teaching of relationship and sex education in post - primary Northern Ireland school , with no consultation , little scrutiny and no care for the devolution settlement . this change be impose a teaching regime on school that many parent object to . do my hon . friend agree that one of the most sinister aspect be that teacher , who will have strong conviction about some of these issue , will be force by law to teach the subject within the parameter set down by the Government ? as a former teacher , my right hon . friend know only too well the impact that the change will have on teacher , which I will refer to throughout my speech . I be proud to have stand in this House time and again to be unequivocal in my opposition to these liberal and irresponsible agenda . I be proud to sit on these Benches with my DUP colleague , who have consistently vote against the regulation . my party have and will continue to oppose , unpick and expose they for what they be . I pay tribute to my colleague Diane Dodds , our education spokesperson at Stormont , who have do a deep dive with we into the detail of the change , expose the wrong of this late RSE legislative change . we on the Democratic Unionist party Benches will be work with parent , teacher and board of governor to ensure that our child and young people be protect , that their innocence be protect , that teacher can exercise conscience and remove themselves from teach something they do not agree with , and that board of governor have the flexibility and ability to protect the ethos of their school . the hon . Lady be give an excellent speech . do she agree with I that it be not only contrary to the spirit of devolution — education be , of course , a devolved matter — to impose this on Northern Ireland , but that , give the controversy that have surround RSE in Great Britain and the inquiry the Government have launch because of those controversy , it seem absurd to implement this right now when the inquiry be still ongoing ? I want to get into that , in detail . the law on RSE in England change three year ago and since then public concern have be build steam . mistake have be make , so much so that , as the hon . Lady say , the Government have have to bring forward their review of RSE and appoint an external body to assist the Department for Education here in its review . what concern I now be the risk of the same error be repeat in Northern Ireland . I be ask the Government to take step to ensure that we have a credible approach to RSE in Northern Ireland , which parent , teacher , school and our community as a whole can have confidence in . unfortunately , the Secretary of State have get off to a very bad start with his approach to introduce the regulation with a lack of consultation , scrutiny and the pretence of CEDAW — the convention on the elimination of all form of discrimination against woman — be use to justify the move . my hon . friend must have be delighted at the turnout of over 1 , 000 schoolteacher , board of governor and political representative in her constituency last night , campaign on this issue of let kid be kid . be that not the important message ? as she rightly say , interfere in the education of our child at your peril . it will not be tolerate by people across the community in Northern Ireland . be that not the message the Secretary of State should hear loud and clear ? absolutely . parent , teacher and board of governor be angry , frustrated and really concerned . that have be demonstrate through meeting hold locally in Northern Ireland . I be about operate in the realm of reality . I be not about platitude or throwaway line that will be forget . I be about protect our child and young people . I come ask the Government to listen to the concern and to make amend . the change as per the Northern Ireland RSE 2023 regulation be deeply concern . they will change RSE teaching in Northern Ireland in post - primary school , force the teaching of contraception and abortion . that , couple with the long - term agenda of implement the RSE progression framework , have invoke so much anger and genuine concern . when it come to teaching about abortion , the Government have seek to reassure we that it should take place in " a factual way that do not advocate , nor oppose , a particular view on the moral and ethical consideration of abortion " . but such assurance be impossible to deliver . the very act of teaching about abortion be not morally neutral . it normalise it , present the subject — the taking of innocent human life at their most vulnerable stage — as a mere moral dilemma about which people may be free to disagree , whereas for those who be pro - life , human life be at stake . far , it diminish the value of life because if young people be teach about the legal availability of abortion and how to access it , they be more likely to do so in great number . we have see that in England and Wales since the Abortion Act 1967 be introduce . indeed , the widely use Sexwise RSE resource in England and Wales even teach girl that they can go and do it privately without their parent know — so much for assurance on parental consultation . the Secretary of State also seek to assure we that education on so - call " sexual and reproductive health right " should be " scientifically accurate " . again , I would point out that this be a cause of significant contention . for example , many people in Northern Ireland and many scientist would contend that an unborn baby be , scientifically , a human being . the Education for Choice website , recommend as an RSE resource in England and Wales , assert that " before the limit of viability … the foetus be not consider a human being " . such a claim be highly contentious and , I would suggest , neither neutral nor scientific . the point be that it be not possible to be neutral on this issue , where science and ethic be interweave . it be highly likely that resource in Northern Ireland will therefore end up be bias , as in England and Wales . in short , these be matter which should be leave to parent , not school . RSE be not just like any other school subject . it deal with issue on which there be a wide range of view and perspective . it be a highly sensitive topic that involve very personal issue , and it be critical for parent , teacher and school governor across Northern Ireland to feel confident that the regulation and the guidance now be draw up recognise that . they need to know that the Government will ensure that school understand the sensitivity of the topic , and approach it appropriately and in a way that respect the range of view that exist . unfortunately , in recent time it have seem that one view be not respect : that of the Christian , or of the citizen who value life and respect other . the pro - life view be scorn — the view that those who do not want to get pregnant should not have sex , the view that teach faithfulness in relationship , and the view that subscribe only to the fact that a boy be bear a boy and a girl be bear a girl and there be not more than 100 different gender ideology , and that it be ludicrous that people can now identify as cat , dog and fox . I say this not to provoke but because these be the view of the vast majority of people in Northern Ireland and throughout this United Kingdom , and unfortunately they appear no long to be welcome . the vote on the amendment relate to RSE in Northern Ireland take place on 29 June , and the Secretary of State announce the result that evening in a speech at the PinkNews Belfast summer reception . let I say seriously that if the aim be to give stakeholder in Northern Ireland confidence that RSE will be balance and not partisan , objective and not ideological , and sensitive to the community that school serve , that be an odd choice . the position of school governor must be respect . a major part of their role be to safeguard the ethos of school and ensure that a school serve its local community , and to do so they need a degree of flexibility and freedom to make decision on the school ' s approach and policy . that can not be dictate in detail from Belfast , still less from Westminster . indeed , a large proportion of school in Northern Ireland be not establish by Government but by the church , and be later transfer — not sell — into Government hand on the understanding that they would continue to provide an education in accordance with their church foundation . of course I understand that the Government can now make law on the education that take place in those school , as they have now do in respect of teaching on contraception and abortion , but it be crucial for teach to be handle in a sensitive and balanced manner that do not disempower governor in their important role . that be my first ask : for school governor to have the autonomy that will allow they to produce RSE policy in line with the school ethos . Most young people in Northern Ireland grow up to form healthy relationship . many form the stable family that be so important to the upbringing of child , provide the care , personal knowledge and understanding that only a parent can give . safeguarding be important , and we be right to be alert to the very tragic case in which parent present a risk of real harm to their child , but those case be extremely rare — they be the exception to the universal rule that parent make the good parent , not the state — so parent must be give the power to make the final decision . as I say early , the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech , and I entirely agree with she that parent should have the power to make the final decision about what be particular and personal value for each individual family , but do she agree that part of the problem be the fact that parent can not make those decision ? give that many of the material concern be not available for parent to view , how can they know whether they want to exercise their right of withdrawal ? the hon . Member have do an immense amount of work in this regard , and she speak about the issue in a very educate way . she be absolutely right : parent should be at the heart of this . the consultation that be currently open in Northern Ireland ask about balance parent and child right , but , with respect , that be not how it work . parent have right to empower they to do their job of care for their child . it be parent who be the first and good guardian of their child ' s right , and their role must therefore be safeguard . at present in Northern Ireland , it be common for school to allow parent to remove their child from RSE , but it do not happen frequently , because afford that ability to parent discourage school from adopt radical and controversial approach . school want to avoid push parent into make the decision . when school empower parent in this way , it build trust and confidence on both side in the school ' s delivery of RSE . the Education Department in Northern Ireland be currently carry out a public consultation on right of withdrawal . the plan emphasise in that consultation be to afford a statutory right of withdrawal only from the new statement introduce into the minimum content order , thereby narrow the ability of many parent in Northern Ireland to withdraw their child from any part of RSE that they be concerned about . I urge the Minister to ensure that this do not happen . my second ask be therefore that the guidance will not restrict parent ' ability to withdraw their child from all part of RSE about which they have a concern . Most teacher be highly professional , care deeply about their job and the child , family and community they serve and be conscientious in follow school policy and instruction from school leader , but teacher also have their own view and sensitivity . the UK Supreme Court have recognise that no one should be compel to express a view with which they fundamentally disagree , yet regrettably some of the teaching resource produce by the Council for the Curriculum , Examinations and Assessment present as fact opinion that many teacher disagree with . while there be safeguard build in currently allow for ethos to be uphold by the board of governor , thus protect teacher , there be no clarity on whether those safeguard extend to the change that will be implement in January 2024 . quite frankly , when we do a deep dive into the resource and material that could make their way on to our child ' s desk , it be scary ; it be worry . I want to put on record my thank to the many board of governor and schoolteacher who have hold the line and resist force down pupil ' throat ideologie that their parent and community do not support . therefore , my third ask be to make provision for teacher with conscientious objection to refuse to teach something they do not agree with . the statutory guidance for school that will be issue in January will be crucial , yet no draft of this guidance have be provide as part of the consultation , and nor do the consultation provide any clarity on the scope or detail of its content . this be simply not good enough . therefore , my fourth ask be that this be make available . I stand in this place today not only as a parliamentarian , but as a mum and as a board governor of three school . and I stand here on behalf of the people of Northern Ireland , who do not support what be be do by this Government , who want protection for their child and who want the classroom to be a safe space , not a space that force on their child opinion and ideology that be not in keep with their view . before I leave home this morning , I dress my little boy for school — Charlie , age four . I entrust he into the care and keeping of his new school , safe in the knowledge that the school he attend promote and support a Christian ethos . my niece and nephew travel to their post - primary school , where a christian ethos be uphold and the teaching of RSE be measure , balanced and do not promote some of the most bizarre and liberal view . I do this for they , for every child and young person in Northern Ireland , and for every teacher and board governor who want to protect . I ask the Secretary of State to stop meddle . stop , stop , stop this agenda of devalue life and radically change the very bedrock of our society , our child and their education . let I start by thank the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) for secure tonight ' s debate on an issue that I know she feel very strongly about . the Secretary of State be disappoint that he can not respond himself , but unfortunately this debate have coincide with the Northern Ireland investment summit , where he be busy showcase Northern Ireland ' s innovation and potential to investor from around the world . as a result , I be make my somewhat improbable Dispatch Box debut . relationship and sexuality education for child in the United Kingdom be a sensitive issue and I recognise and respect the fact that there be strongly hold personal view on the issue across the House . in respond for the Government , I seek to continue in the spirit of respect that have characterise the hon . member ' s remark . let I start by outline why the Government have act . early this year the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland lay the Relationships and Sexuality Education ( Northern Ireland ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 . in do so , he be act to implement the clear will of Parliament with respect to sexual and reproductive health education in Northern Ireland . when pass the Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation etc ) Act 2019 , this Parliament , by an overwhelming majority in a free vote , vote to impose a duty on the Secretary of State to implement in full the recommendation of the United Nations committee on the elimination of discrimination against woman . what legal authority do cedaw , a committee of unelected official from other country , have over UK law ? in what other point of UK law do it have the authority to tell we what to do ? the authority come not from CEDAW , but from an overwhelming majority of this House , in a free vote , for that statutory duty . do the Minister agree that at that time there be minimal opportunity for debate and confusion about the vote itself ? that be no way to impose legislation on Northern Ireland from this place . give that the vote take place before I be a Member of this House , it be difficult for I to comment . I will state only that the result be 332 aye to 99 Noes . that legislation thereby place a statutory duty on the Secretary of State to make age - appropriate , comprehensive and scientifically accurate education on sexual and reproductive health and right a compulsory component of the curriculum for adolescent in grant - aid school in Northern Ireland , and to monitor its implementation . this be a specific and unique duty , which colleague will recall also place the Government under a duty to establish abortion service in Northern Ireland . the regulation to deliver on this decision of Parliament be pass in the House of Commons , again by an overwhelming majority , on 28 June 2023 . the Secretary of State do not take lightly the decision to bring forward this legislation . it have always be the Government ' s preference that , because education be a devolved matter , the Department of Education in Northern Ireland should update the curriculum . the Government give it every opportunity to act , but regrettably it do not do so . it be widely acknowledge that there be a problem with how sexual education be be teach in school in Northern Ireland . indeed , a recent report from the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission recommend that a standard level of RSE throughout all school be introduce . the Minister come to the nub of the issue . one of the criticism be that , when they be teach it , people be introduce some value into their teaching . the objection be that faith school and christian teacher , because they believe certain thing , bring those value into their teaching . these regulation be design to prevent people and school from reflect those value in their teaching and in the curriculum . that be the crux of the issue , and it should not be the case in a free society . I be grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . it be the Government ' s view that educate adolescent on issue such a contraception and access to abortion should be do in a factual way that do not advocate or oppose a particular view on the moral and ethical consideration of abortion or contraception . nearly four year have pass since the Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation etc ) Act , and adolescent in Northern Ireland be still not receive comprehensive and scientifically accurate education on sexual and reproductive health and right , and the Government have therefore act to implement the will of the House . in do so , the Government have seek to ensure that the education provide be broadly in line with that already provide in England with regard to contraception and abortion — these regulation do that . the regulation pass early this year amend the curriculum for key stage 3 and 4 pupil — 11 to 16 - year - old . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , if that be okay . the regulation make age - appropriate , comprehensive and scientifically accurate education on sexual and reproductive health and right a compulsory component of the curriculum in Northern Ireland . this cover prevention of early pregnancy and access to abortion . in recognition of the fact that education in Northern Ireland be a devolved matter , the Secretary of State have seek to ensure that the Department of Education in Northern Ireland have lead in determine the content and delivery of this education — they be the expert . the regulation place a duty on that Department to issue guidance by 1 January 2024 , and to place a duty on the board of governor and principal of every grant - aid school to have regard to the guidance . as I note at the beginning of my remark , this Government recognise the sensitivity of this topic . some parent may wish to teach their child about sex education or make alternative arrangement for sex education to be provide in line with their religious background or their belief about the age at which their child should access sex education . let I assure hon . member that in recognition of that the regulation also place a duty on the Department of Education in Northern Ireland to make regulation about the circumstance in which a pupil may be withdraw from such education , or element of that education , at the request of a parent . that mirror the opt - out approach take in England and Scotland . the Minister have use the word " sensitivity " on a number of occasion during his speech . do he accept that advise someone on the killing of a child be one of the most sensitive issue that there could possibly be , yet , accord to what the Secretary of State have say , what CEDAW have say and what these regulation will result in , any teacher who have a deeply hold view that kill a child be wrong will be prevent from say so to the child they be try to guide ? on the point of teacher opt - out , it be important to stress that this will be a matter for the Department of Education in Northern Ireland , as it have overall responsibility for education in Northern Ireland . it will be part of its consultation , which I will be come to in a moment , and the guidance that be publish next year . on teacher opt - out , it be also worth point out that a large majority of the school in Northern Ireland outsource their relationship and sexuality education to third - party provider . thank you for indulge I on this , Mr Deputy Speaker . the Minister say that the " Government recognise the sensitivity " of this matter and he then use the word " some parent may wish to " . how do he reconcile that with the fact that scrutiny in the other place say that there have be insufficient consultation with parent ? do he not think that some strong legislation may have be bring forward , if that be deem appropriate , follow proper consultation with parent ? by the way , you should first have apologise for not be present throughout the entire debate . I will be come to that report from the other place shortly . rise — I be very short on time ; I have only three minute . if the hon . Gentleman will forgive I , I would like to make some progress . it will be a short intervention — in that case , I will give way . the Minister should accept that he be very popular tonight on his debut at the Dispatch Box . as my colleague have say , the mechanic of teach sex , the mechanic of an abortion and the mechanic of contraception be one thing ; this be about the teaching of value . go through life , as we all know , be about one thing : relationship — relationship with each other , how we build those relationship , whether they become sexual , and whether they take place in a love environment . when those value be remove , what happen to the thing that we believe in passionately ? it be , " you can have an abortion because it be an inconvenience to have a child . " that be where the problem come . can the Minister give we an assurance that value will be allow to be keep , so that at the centre of all our relationship we have value ? I be not sure that be quite the short intervention that the hon . Member promise . I reiterate what I say early about the need to have the education do in a factual way . but that do not exclude parent be able to teach those value to their child , which surely would be the most primary thing when it come to this . the Department for Education have confirm that it intend to have the opt - out regulation in force on the same day as the guidance on the update curriculum , which be 1 January next year . on 1 September , the Department for Education launch a consultation on the guidance and the opt - out regulation . this will run for 12 week , until 24 November . I encourage hon . member who feel strongly about this to engage in that consultation . Northern Ireland Office official will continue to work closely with the Department for Education as it work towards implementation of the curriculum . hon . member have note in this debate that the House of Lords bring the regulation to the special attention of the House as a result of their concern about the decision not to publicly consult on they . the Secretary of State have already address the issue in a subsequent debate on those regulation , but I just reiterate that , in line with the Government ' s statutory obligation under section 75 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , and in consultation with the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland , the Government complete an equality assessment screening , the outcome of which do not indicate the need to consult publicly on the policy . the Secretary of State ' s duty be clear that it require topic such as abortion and contraception to be compulsory curriculum component . a public consultation would not change this requirement . as I have mention , there be the consultation now open on both the guidance and the opt - out provision . in closing , I reiterate that the Government have only step in where necessary on this issue to deliver on a statutory duty . in bring forward these regulation — rise — I be afraid that I be out of time . in bring forward these regulation , the UK Government do not set a new policy direction , but rather give effect to a decision take by Parliament in 2019 by an overwhelming majority in a free vote . the Department for Education in Northern Ireland — House adjourn without question put ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 7 ) ) .