NHS England have find that create that environment do not necessarily provide new and well way of repurpose drug , and that can be do far more efficiently and far less bureaucratically by use local off - label prescribing . we be look at how we can incentivise researcher and clinical trial to explore repurpose drug . we be determined to make the NIHR and other funder grasp opportunity to support those proposal . we will help researcher work with industry and clinician to strengthen the evidence base for new drug . the NHS be work hard to diagnose and treat cancer on time . there be more to do on early diagnosis and fast treatment , in order to improve patient experience and survival . the NHS be focus on improve diagnostic waiting time , and on provide MRI , CT and other test to reduce cancer wait , because , as Lord Darzi ' s investigation have show , we face significant challenge if we be to bring this country ' s cancer survival rate back up to the standard of the good in the world . we know that the good way to improve survival for those with brain tumour , and with all cancer , be to diagnose patient early and treat they quickly . in our first six month , 80 , 000 more patient receive a diagnosis or an all - clear within 28 day than do in the previous year , thank to investment in cut NHS waiting list . in March , more than 80 % of patient in England refer for cancer have it rule out or diagnose within 28 day — it be the first time that target have be meet in year — but we must go far , and we will . our reform to cancer care will see more than 100 , 000 people diagnose fast , and thousand more start treatment within two month across the NHS . there be no single solution to this complex challenge . that be why my right hon . friend , the Secretary of State , have be clear that there will be a national cancer plan publish later this year . this plan will ensure that rare cancer , include brain cancer , will not be leave behind . it be my absolute privilege , as a person with cancer , to be drive that cancer plan . I be delighted that we have so far receive more than 11 , 000 representation as part of the call for evidence . I can assure my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden that her contribution and all other will be take seriously . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson also talk about low - grade cancer . there be a difference between staging and grading , and it be important that we be clear about that . low - grade brain tumour be consider non - cancerous , and they grow more slowly and be less likely to spread , but although low - grade brain tumour be generally non - cancerous , they can have similar serious symptom , and require surgery or radiotherapy to treat they . the Government be invest in new life - save and life - improve research to support people diagnose with those cancer . in closing , for those affect by this devastating disease , every discovery , every treatment and every moment matter . we recognise that more need to be do to stimulate high - quality , high - impact research into brain tumour . through our targeted package of support , that be what we will do . we completely understand the strength of feeling on this issue , not least because three Ministers in the Department of Health and Social Care be cancer survivor . we know how terrifying it be to receive a diagnosis . we have sit in waiting room , hope for good news and fear the bad — and we have hear the bad . we have have those difficult conversation with our love one and see the devastating impact on their life . that be why we be committed to make a real difference for patient with brain cancer . we will leave no stone unturned until they get the first - class care that they deserve . I look forward to far discuss how we can achieve this when I meet member of the all - party parliamentary group on brain tumour next week .