Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — support for the Steel Industry what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to support the steel industry in Wales . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to support the steel industry in Wales . steelmaking be key to our mission to grow the economy and deliver clean power by 2030 . we be commit to provide up to £ 2 . 5 billion for steel in addition to the £ 500 million already earmark for Tata to build its electric arc furnace at the Port Talbot steelwork . I be pleased to reaffirm at the Budget £ 80 million of funding for the Port Talbot transition board , which I chair . we will continue to deliver this money to people and business affect . unlike the previous Government , this Government be fully commit to enable the £ 800 million transition fund to support former steelworker . I recently visit the steelworker ' support centre in Port Talbot , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) . in its opening four week , it have help almost 600 individual , many of whom will be from Neath and Swansea East . will the Secretary of State join I in thank Community union and the other organisation that have set up the centre , and provide an update on the transition fund ? I completely agree with my hon . friend that the hub be great . I open the hub last month , and community union and other have do a fabulous job with this one - stop shop to help support worker affect by the change at Tata . this Government be determined to do everything we can to support worker and business . that be why this renew partnership of Governments , union and the local council be work together to ensure that the town get what it need . funding from the UK Government be already make a difference via the transition board . we know that there be a huge amount of work to do , but we be already see people successfully place in new job as a direct result of the £ 13 . 5 million that we have make available so far . I thank the Secretary of State for her hard work to support our steel industry and our general steel community , include in Port Talbot , since she have be in post . I be pleased to see the Chancellor confirm in the Budget £ 80 million of funding for the transition board , which the Secretary of State chair . will she tell the House why that be necessary ? in my first week as Welsh Secretary , I discover that the £ 80 million promise by the previous Conservative Government for the transition board be part of the £ 22 billion of unfunded promise they have make . that shocking dereliction of duty threaten to leave worker and business high and dry without the support they need . I have therefore make it my mission to fight tooth and nail for that money on behalf of our steel community , and I would not have leave they unsupported . I be pleased to be able to confirm that under this Labour Government the transition board be fully fund , and we be get on with the delivery . I welcome the new shadow Secretary of State for Wales . thank you , Mr Speaker . at the outset , as I come to the Dispatch Box for the first time in this role for Wales question , may I please pay tribute to my former private secretary in the Wales Office , Debbie John , who be take at a tender age due to pancreatic cancer ? she and her family be in my thought today as I take up this role . she be much miss and very fondly remember . the right hon . Lady clearly need to acknowledge to the House that the deal for Tata steel recently re - announce by her UK Government be identical to the one negotiate by my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , who be now Leader of the Opposition . I welcome the hon . Lady to her place and join she in her comment about her former private office secretary . I think the hon . Lady need to read the deal reach by the Government . the £ 1 . 25 billion transformation project at Port Talbot will deliver a state - of - the - art electric furnace , the contract for which have just be sign . in just under 10 week , without provide any additional funding beyond the £ 500 million previously announce , we deliver a well deal that secure the immediate future of Port Talbot and lay the foundation for future investment , as well as enhanced protection for the workforce in Port Talbot , Llanwern , Trostre and Shotton . I be delighted that the right hon . Lady have read the deal that we write , but the fact be simple : despite the protest , this be the same deal that be previously negotiate by the last Conservative Government , involve the same amount of money to build the electric arc furnace and the same cash for the transition board . it be ludicrous for she or other to continue to claim that no support be in place and that it somehow appear when she find it down the back of the sofa . she be fully aware that the cash have be sit there the whole time . perhaps an apology be need for that , and for claim that Port Talbot supply the defence industry with material . if an apology be due , it be to the people of Port Talbot for promise £ 80 million for a transition board that operate for nine month under the previous Secretary of State for Wales , and deliver not a single penny to the people of Port Talbot , and now we know why : the £ 80 million do not exist . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the closure of the last blast furnace at Port Talbot have result in the loss of several thousand highly skilled job across south Wales , prompt another economic contraction across our region . the global centre for rail excellence at Onllwyn be one project that could reverse the trend of deindustrialisation and bring back good , well - pay job to south Wales . will the Secretary of State confirm that the UK Government intend to make further investment in that project , and give an update on what conversation she have have to ensure that the project get go ? the hon . Gentleman will know from both the Budget and the international investment summit that significant investment be be make in Wales as a result of this Government ' s work : £ 63 billion be announce at the investment summit , £ 1 billion to Shotton Mill in north Wales — the big investment in Wales for decade . that will secure 300 job and mean that we will have the large UK paper manufacturing site in the whole United Kingdom . we be grow the economy , create job and deliver significant investment . I will write to he about the rail project . strengthen the Union what step she be take to strengthen the Union . what step she be take to strengthen the Union . we have reset our relationship with the Welsh Government . our approach be base on trust and mutual respect , and be spearhead by the new Council of the Nations and Regions , which meet for the first time last month . my regular meeting with the First Minister of Wales be also drive forward our new partnership , which be already deliver for Wales . that be evident in the big ever real - term Budget settlement deliver for the Welsh Government last week . the Secretary of State have be clear that this Labour Government will build a new partnership with the Welsh Government base on co - operation , respect and delivery . will she say how the Government will give meaning to the manifesto commitment to strengthen devolution ? the previous Conservative Government run roughshod over the devolution settlement , include by legislate in devolve area without consent on numerous occasion . this government will respect the devolution settlement and work in partnership with all devolve government . we will honour our manifesto commitment to do that by strengthen the Sewel convention , include a new memorandum of understanding between our government , ensure that the petty squabble of the past be confine to history and we can focus on deliver for the people of Wales . the Secretary of State have be very clear about the much - need reset between the Welsh and UK Governments . can she also make clear how the recent Budget have contribute to that reset ? our Budget deliver for Wales for the first time in a generation , because the £ 21 billion settlement announce last week be the large settlement in real term since the dawn of devolution . it will provide a record boost for the Welsh Government to support vital public service in Wales , such as the NHS . it include £ 25 million to maintain work to keep coal tip safe , and £ 320 million for investment zone in north and south Wales to power our sector strength , which include the creative industry , life science and advanced manufacturing — for example , our world - lead compound semiconductor cluster . that show the difference of Labour government work together . first , may I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , who have just take on the role of shadow Secretary of State for Wales ? it be a fantastic opportunity for she to champion a vital part of our Union . secondly , may I ask the Secretary of State , who be newly in her post , what she will do to ensure that the power that bring our Union together come out of Ynys M ô n — that be Anglesey to she — so that she can ensure that the nuclear project that keep we safe be properly invest in and not drop , as they have be by this Labour Government ? labour government control both side of the M4 now , and it be about time they deliver . I wonder whether the right hon . Gentleman have ever be to Anglesey — or Ynys M ô n , as he describe it . I be eager to see new nuclear development in north Wales that will provide high - quality job across the region and drive economic growth . we recognise that a nuclear future at Wylfa could help to deliver several of our strategic objective , achieve net zero energy independence and restore economic prosperity across our nation and region . great British Nuclear complete the purchase of the site in June this year , and we will make further announcement about it very soon . could the Secretary of State explain how it be possible to strengthen the Union while maintain a partition border in the irish sea at the behest of a foreign jurisdiction and under its law ? I refer the hon . and learn Gentleman to my previous answer about the resetting of the relationship with the Welsh Government , and about work together and respect the devolution settlement with all devolve government . the Secretary of State talk about respect the devolution settlement . Mark Drakeford write to the Chancellor before the Budget ask for a review of Wales ' s Barnett formula for transport funding , which have fall from 81 % in 2015 to 36 % in 2021 . however , the Budget reveal a further cut in the Welsh transport comparability factor , which be now down to 33 % . how come strengthen the Union under Labour mean that every major rail project in England result in Wales lose out ? we be have ongoing discussion with the Welsh Government about fund flexibility and their fiscal framework . we will deliver our manifesto commitment to work with the Welsh Government to address the outdated fiscal framework . as the right hon . Lady know , heavy rail infrastructure be not devolve in Wales as it be in Scotland and Northern Ireland , and the Department for Transport settlement provide a £ 1 . 1 billion cash increase to total budget in 2025 - 26 compare to 2024 - 25 . impact of the Budget what discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on the impact of the autumn Budget on Wales . I have regular discussion with the First Minister of Wales on a range of topic , include , of course , the autumn Budget . this Budget have deliver for Wales for the first time in a generation . the Welsh Government be receive the large settlement in real term since devolution , to support public service such as the NHS . More than 100 , 000 worker in Wales benefit from increase in the national minimum wage and the national living wage each year . in the Budget , the Chancellor announce that the Barnett formula would apply to funding for agriculture , rather than the devolve government receive a ringfenced amount . the Farmers ' Union of Wales say that the Barnettisation of funding could lead to a cut of £ 146 million a year , or more than 40 % . can the Secretary of State say whether that figure be correct , and whether she believe that her Government ' s Budget have show any consideration at all for our farming community ? I be very pleased that the Budget be able to protect the current farming budget for the next financial year , despite the difficult decision that we have to make because the conservative party have trash our economy . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Griffith , you be continually be a nuisance on the Front Bench . I want you either to restrict it or to go and get yourself that cup of tea . thank you , Mr Speaker . obviously , farming be devolve in Wales , and the decision on how to spend that budget will be up to the Welsh Government . I welcome last week ' s budget announcement about improve rail transport , and I want to bang the drum for a most excellent project in Monmouthshire , the Magor walkway station , which be ready for investment — indeed , we might even call it oven - ready . will my right hon . friend commit to work with the Rail Minister and I , and Welsh Ministers , to deliver the five Burns station , and will she meet I to discuss progress ? my hon . friend be a wonderful advocate for her constituency and for the Burns commission ' s recommendation for her constituency , and I would be very happy to meet she to discuss they . I call the shadow Secretary of State . will the Secretary of State express her regret about the impact of labour ' s Budget on Wales ? it will undoubtedly make the people of Wales poorer . pensioner have be leave wonder whether they should turn on their heating this winter , and family farm will be destroy . the Budget be affect business confidence and employment across the nation . the Budget provide the big ever settlement in real term since the dawn of devolution , a protect £ 80 million for steelworker and business , £ 88 million for city and growth deal , £ 320 million for funding through investment zone , £ 25 million for coal tip and a protect £ 440 million for local community — I could go on . it be a great deal for Wales . rise — order . you can not just keep ask question , shadow Secretary of State . you be allow only two , and that be your second . economic Growth what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on increase economic growth in Wales . the growth mission be the central priority for this Government . our new industrial strategy and national wealth fund will boost economic growth across Wales , create job and drive up living standard . work alongside ministerial colleague , I be pleased to confirm £ 320 million of funding for two investment zone in Wales , the green light on the freeport in the Celtic sea and protection for local community growth funding across Wales . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . university in Wales , such as Wrexham University in my constituency , be crucial not just for the educational and research outcome they provide , but for the economic opportunity they give our town and city , with a recent report by university Wales show that their contribution to the economy stand at £ 11 billion . at a time when we be firmly in pursuit of economic growth , can the Secretary of State tell I what conversation she have have to ensure that university in Wales be partner in this mission ? will she agree to visit Wrexham University with I to see at first hand the brilliant work that it be do in collaboration with local business ? I would be delighted to go back to Wrexham and visit the university with my hon . friend . Welsh university will benefit from record level of investment in research and development , which will be worth over £ 20 billion next year . the Budget confirm £ 160 million of funding for the Wrexham and Flintshire investment zone , which be choose due to the presence of world - renowne research institution such as Wrexham University and Bangor University . we say the phrase " no farmer , no food " so often , but never have there be a need for such emphasis as in the wake of the autumn Budget . farmer in Wales , in Northern Ireland and right across this United Kingdom be reel from the change in agricultural property relief and the impact it will have on the future of family farm . what be the Secretary of State do to support farmer and make this case to the Treasury ? this Government continue to provide significant tax relief for farmer . for example , farming parent be able to pass up to £ 3 million to their child free of tax . they then pay half of the normal inheritance tax rate on anything over £ 3 million , and they have up to 10 year to pay it . the vast majority of farm will be unaffected by the change in the Budget and will continue not to pay inheritance tax . Healthcare Collaboration what discussion she be have with the Welsh Government on collaborative effort to improve healthcare in England and Wales . cut waiting list be a top priority for both this Government and the Welsh Government . last week ' s spend review provide the Welsh Government with the large real - term settlement since devolution , include an additional £ 1 . 7 billion for 2025 - 26 , enable they to spend more on public service such as the NHS . I continue to collaborate with ministerial colleague in both government , with the aim of drive down waiting list . I welcome this new partnership between the Welsh and UK Governments , which represent a real opportunity to share good practice and help to cut NHS waiting list in England and Wales . will the Secretary of State expand on how she will ensure that patient on both side of the border get access to the good healthcare possible in a timely matter ? both government be work collaboratively to make the NHS fit for the future . we provide a £ 1 . 75 billion boost for the Welsh Government to spend on public service such as the NHS , and the Welsh Government have just announce £ 28 million to cut NHS waiting time . both government be share good practice and will consider more cross - border arrangement where capacity allow . the Welsh Government ' s ministerial advisory group on NHS performance and productivity have be establish to support improvement and bring down long waiting list . the Secretary of State will know that health be devolve across all the nation . can she reassure I that the Secretary of State for Health will work with all the devolve Health Ministers to make sure that we can truly engender a national health service for the like of mental health provision ? I know that the Health and Social Care Secretary want to ensure that the national health service across all of our four nation be fit for the future . the British Medical Association in Wales say that GP funding have decrease as a percentage of the Welsh Government ' s budget by over 2 . 6 % since 2005 . treflan surgery in Pwllheli can not afford to fill key staff role , and budget measure will cost it an extra £ 19 , 000 . the Secretary of State for Wales know the state of the NHS in Wales , so why be she instrumental in Labour at both end of the M4 threaten GP surgery ? we be not threaten GP surgery . if the right hon . Lady do not think that the £ 1 . 7 billion additional funding to spend on the NHS in Wales as a result of the Budget be a great idea , she need to say what she would do instead . farming : support what discussion she be have with the Welsh Government on support for the farming industry in Wales . I recently meet the Deputy First Minister of Wales to discuss a range of matter relate to farming . in September , the inter - ministerial group meeting on rural affair agree to improve food security and environmental land management by increase the exchange of datum and insight on farming support scheme . I be also pleased to see the Budget protect Welsh farm budget at current level for the financial year . the Secretary of State , while in opposition , warn that the New Zealand trade deal would push Welsh farmer into bankruptcy and note that australian meat be produce at a far low standard than in Wales . I agree . my constituent want high - quality Welsh lamb , beef and chicken . will the Minister therefore push her colleague in the Department for Business and Trade to review the Australia and New Zealand trade agreement and get it right for our farming community ? the hon . Member will know as well as I do that the new Leader of the Opposition be the one who sell our farmer down the river , negotiate deal with place such as Australia and leave our farmer open to increase quota on import meat . I assure he that this Government be commit to promote robust standard , nationally and internationally , to protect consumer interest and to ensure that consumer have confidence in the food that they buy . we will consider the full range of tool at our disposal to uphold the UK ' s commitment to high standard . that include use our influence in the World Trade Organisation and other multilateral body to argue for well and fair trading rule . Job Creation what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help create new job in Wales . our mission to kick - start economic growth will deliver good job and growth in Wales . just last month , our international investment summit secure over £ 63 billion in private investment into the UK . since July , we have secure over £ 1 billion of investment into north Wales , create and sustain 400 well - pay job in manufacturing . the Secretary of State have say that economic growth be her no . 1 priority . can the Minister say how the Budget ' s confirmation of the investment zone will help contribute to that aim ? the Budget include a total of £ 320 million and a commitment for the investment zone in Cardiff and Newport and in Wrexham and Flintshire . this be a crucial part of our work with the Welsh Government to provide a rocket boost for sectoral strength such as the creative industry , the life science and advanced manufacturing , include our world - lead compound semiconductor cluster . there be great potential for create new job in wind energy and sea energy in Wales . we in Northern Ireland , and in Belfast in particular , have the engineering skill to provide the turbine for that energy production . everyone would gain : Wales would get the job , and Northern Ireland would get the job as well . this Government be absolutely committed to economic growth across all part of the United Kingdom . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — I welcome the Leader of the opposition and wish she well . engagement if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 6 November . I begin by congratulate President - elect Trump on his historic election victory . as the close of ally , the UK and the US will continue to work together to protect our share value of freedom and democracy . have have dinner with President - elect Trump just a few week ago , I look forward to work with he in the year to come . I also welcome the Leader of the Opposition to her place — my fourth Tory leader in four and a half year . I look forward to work with she in the interest of the british public . this weekend be Remembrance Sunday , when people across the country will come together to pay solemn tribute to those who make the ultimate sacrifice in defend the value and freedom that we enjoy today . I be sure the entire House will join I in pay tribute to they . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . my constituent Suzanne be go to miss out on her winter fuel allowance this winter because she be just £ 10 above the pension credit threshold . as well as lose out on that vital money to keep her house warm , she do not get the £ 150 warm home discount , the £ 169 free tv licence or free nhs prescription . for the sake of a tenner , be this fair ? we introduce a Budget to fix the foundation of this country and to rebuild our country . one of the issue we have to confront be the £ 22 billion black hole leave by the last government . we have take the tough decision that will stabilise our economy . this mean we can commit to the triple lock , which mean that pensioner will be well off , see an increase in their pension , than they would have be under the conservative party . every week I meet hard - work family in Burton and Uttoxeter who be juggle raise their child with manage their family finance . when they hear the Conservative party and its new leader say that maternity pay have " go too far , " they be terrified about what that mean for they . to ease the worry feel by thousand of hard - work family , will the Prime Minister please confirm that he have no plan to change maternity pay or to roll back the hard - win right of work family ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he be a champion for family in his constituency . my answer be simple : yes . I do not agree with the Leader of the opposition when she say that maternity pay be excessive and have go too far . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for his almost warm welcome . I echo the comment he have make . it be an immense privilege and the honour of my life to lead the conservative party . I look forward to join he at the Cenotaph this Remembrance Sunday . as Leader of his Majesty ' s Opposition , I will be take a different approach to the last opposition , by be a constructive opposition , so I would like to start by congratulate President - elect Trump on his impressive victory this morning . the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary meet he in September . do the Foreign Secretary take that opportunity to apologise for make derogatory and scatological reference , include " Trump be not only a woman - hating , neo - nazi - sympathise sociopath . he be also a profound threat to the international order " ? if he do not apologise , will the Prime Minister do so now , on his behalf ? there will be many issue on which the Leader of the Opposition and I disagree , but there will be issue that unite this House , on national security and Ukraine . I look forward to work closely with she on that . I will provide she with the information that she need to discharge her duty . that be the right thing for the country and it be far more important than party politic . the Foreign Secretary and I do meet President - elect Trump , just a few week ago , for dinner , for about a couple of hour . we discuss a number of issue of global significance . it be a very constructive exercise . the Prime Minister do not distance himself from the remark make by the Foreign Secretary , and I be very sure that President Trump will soon be call to thank he for send all of those north London labour activist to campaign for his opponent . give that most of his Cabinet sign a motion to ban President Trump from address Parliament , will the Prime Minister show that he and his Government can be more than student politician by ask the Speaker to extend — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Perkins , I do not need any more . your voice carry ; it be like mine — too loud . will the Prime Minister show that he and his Government can be more than student politician by ask you , Mr Speaker , to extend an invitation to President Trump to address Parliament on his next visit ? the Leader of the opposition be give a masterclass on student politic ! but seriously , we live in probably a more volatile world than we have live in for many decade . it be absolutely crucial that we have a strong relationship — that strong , special relationship , forge in difficult circumstance — between the US and the UK . we will continue to work , as we have do in our four month in government , on issue of security , our economy and global conflict . the Prime Minister do not answer the question ; he just read the line the official have prepare for he . it do not sound like he want to invite President - elect Trump to Parliament . he need to look after the special relationship . the US be our single big trade partner . give the risk of increase tariff on UK export , which threaten our manufacturing sector , will the Prime Minister commit now to continue the negotiation on our free trade agreement with the US , which the Biden Administration cancel when they come into office ? of course we will discuss issue of our economy with the President - elect , as we already have do . economy , security and global conflict be issue of real significance that ought to unite this House . when it come to the economy , what we have do with our Budget be to fix the foundation after 14 year , and return economic stability after the £ 22 billion black hole . we have protect the payslip of work people . we have make the single big investment in our country for a generation in the NHS , school and home . we have give a pay rise to the 3 million lowest pay . if the Leader of the Opposition be oppose to that investment or the pay rise for work people — she be a straight talker , as I understand it — perhaps she should say so . Discuss , discuss , discuss ; chat , chat , chat — the Prime Minister have no plan whatsoever for build on the special relationship . he need to realise that we in this country rely on our single big trade partner . President Trump be also right to argue that Europe need to increase its defence spending . the last Conservative Government commit to raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 . will the Prime Minister finally match that commitment ? there be no more important duty than keep the people of this country safe . it be the Labour Government who sign the NATO treaty in the first place , and we be strong supporter . we have a strategic defence review , and we be commit to 2 . 5 % . [ interruption . ] I remind conservative Members that the last time 2 . 5 % be meet be under the last Labour Government . fourteen year , and they never do it once . last year , the National Audit Office identify a £ 17 billion black hole in the Ministry of Defence finance . the former Defence Secretary say that the previous Government " hollow out " the armed force . the plan that the Conservatives put forward at the election be pure fantasy . the Prime Minister will not make that commitment ; that be very clear . all that he be do — [ interruption . ] order . I be go to hear the question . if there be people who do not want to hear they , they can leave now . the Prime Minister will not make that commitment , yet the world be get more dangerous . his Chancellor ' s Budget do not even mention defence . the Chancellor ' s Budget last week be a copy and paste of Bidenomics . it turn out that a high - spending , high - borrowing and high - inflation approach be less popular than she may have think . may I suggest that he now urge she to change course , or be he determined to be a one - term leader ? the one thing that I learn as Leader of the opposition be that it be a good idea to listen to what the Government be actually say . I think the right hon . Lady just say that defence be not mention in the Budget . it be seven day ago that it be absolutely clear and central to the Budget , as be economic growth . we be fix the foundation . we be give a pay rise to million of people . we be pick up the mess that the Conservatives leave , include the £ 22 billion black hole , and give a pay rise to work people . I have not yet hear she welcome that pay rise for the 3 million low pay worker . do she now welcome it , or do she stick to her previous policy that it be excessive ? I be the one who , as Business Secretary , raise the minimum wage last year ; I have a strong record on this . we need to make sure that we balance the book . the Prime Minister ' s scripted line show that he have not even listen to the Budget himself , so I will try a different question . perhaps he can give something that be unscripted to the people who be watch . farmer across the United Kingdom — [ Laughter . ] Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] order . I do not need any help . if anybody want to leave , I will help they do that . I be go to hear the question , and I certainly want to hear the answer as well , so , please , let we have some courtesy . we have hear the Prime Minister on television repeat the line " fix the foundation " and so on , over and over again , but what do he say to farmer who be face uncertainty about their future as a result of the increase taxis announce by the Chancellor ? I be very clear that we would reverse labour ' s cruel family farm tax . [ hon . member : " read ! " ] what can he say now to reassure the farming community — [ hon . member : " read ! " ] — who provide security for the whole nation ? I be happy to help the Leader of the Opposition . if she be go to complain about scripted answer , it be probably good not to read that from a script ! [ hon . member : " More ! " ] I be glad that she raise the issue of farmer , because the Budget last week put £ 5 billion over the next two year into farming . that be the single big increase , unlike the £ 300 million underspend under the last government . when it come to inheritance , the vast , vast majority of farmer will be unaffected , as she and her party well know . the Budget be about fix the foundation , fix the £ 22 billion hole that the Conservatives leave and invest in the future of our country — invest in our NHS , our school , our hospital and our home . I be proud that we be make that investment . if the opposition oppose it , they should go out there and tell their constituent that they be against that investment in the future of our country . that be the difference : a Labour Government take we forward ; the Conservatives be stick in the past . More ! order . I want to hear Matthew Patrick . Emily leave she ex , but the abuse do not stop . he stay in their home , cancel the mortgage contribution and destroy her credit score . now she can not even take out a mobile phone contract . survive Economic Abuse and UK Finance have make progress in tackle this issue , but more have to be do . will the Prime Minister and his Government work with I to introduce new provision , so that we can restore the credit file for survivor of economic abuse like Emily ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this really important issue . economic abuse have a devastating impact on victim , leave they vulnerable and isolated , and we be commit to end this national emergency and keep woman safe from domestic abuse , harassment and stalk . that include £ 200 , 000 this year for the charity survive Economic Abuse , and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have launch an online tool to help charity and business to identify and respond to economic abuse . I will make sure that my hon . friend have a meeting with the relevant Minister . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I join the Prime Minister in his comment about Remembrance Sunday . we must always remember the brave british man and woman who give their life for our country . I also join he in welcome the conservative leader to her place , and congratulate she on become the first black leader of a UK - wide party — a major and historic achievement . President - elect Trump praise Vladimir Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine . he call it " genius " . he also say that he would encourage Russia " to do whatever the hell they want " to NATO ally , so what action be the Prime Minister take to encourage a Trump presidency to change its mind ? otherwise , it be a huge threat to global security , and national security in the UK . do the Prime Minister agree that , if the US will not oppose President Putin and support our brave ukrainian ally , the UK must lead in Europe , so that together we do ? I be very proud that in this House we be unite on the question of Ukraine , and clear about russian aggression , and we will continue to be so . I have long take the view that the only winner if we be divide in this House be Putin , and I be not prepared to let that happen . our relationship with the US be a strong relationship , forge in very difficult circumstance historically . it remain as strong today as it be when it be first forge , and I look forward to work with President - elect Trump to ensure that that relationship stay the special relationship . I be grateful for the Prime Minister ' s comment on Ukraine , but Donald Trump have also say that " trade war be good " . he call himself " Tariff Man " . People be really worried that trump ' s trade war and tariff will damage our economy , damage business , and hit the cost of live here in the UK . give that , do the Prime Minister recognise that it be more urgent than ever that we support our british economy by get rid of the damaging trade barrier with Europe put in place by the Conservatives ? as the right hon . Member will know , we make the economy the centrepiece of our Budget , and we will do everything that we need to do to ensure that our economy grow , and that be measure in living standard go up for work people across the country . many family across Aldershot and Farnborough have struggle for year to get their child with special educational need the help that they need . it be therefore shameful to read the misguided claim make by the Leader of the Opposition that autistic people " may well get well treatment " and receive economic privilege and protection . will the Prime Minister stand with the family of autistic child , and distance the Government from those awful word ? I will leave the Leader of the Opposition to respond to those word . as the recent National Audit Office report expose , child with special educational need and disability be be fail by the system under the previous Government . this have come up I think five time in the last two or three week at pmq . it be clearly a serious issue . our focus will be on ensure that every child receive the right support to succeed in their education . Northern Ireland be consider one of the most dangerous place in Europe to be a woman — 24 woman have be kill in the last four year — but one of the most dangerous place for woman and girl be online . I pay tribute to Belfast and Lisburn Women ' s aid , which be tireless in its advocacy of woman . what be the Government do to keep woman and girl safe online , not just in Lagan Valley but right across the United Kingdom ? the hon . member be right to draw attention to that issue . Misogyny and abuse , both online and offline , cause horrendous harm to woman and girl across the UK . I commend she for her honesty and bravery in speak out about her own experience , and for her dedication to create safe space for woman in her constituency . we must create a safe world online for woman and girl through the Online Safety Act 2023 , mitigate the risk of illegal content and activity that be abusive or incite hatred . everyone in Southwark will benefit from the positive measure in last week ' s Budget , especially the thousand of people on minimum wage , who will get a real - term increase to help themselves , their family and the economy . the new leader of the Tory party — this week ' s leader — be on record as say that she want to scrap the minimum wage , have seemingly learn nothing from July . will the Prime Minister pledge to protect the minimum wage and increase it in this Parliament as finance allow ? the previous Labour Government transform the labour market with the national minimum wage . that be oppose by the Conservatives at the time , and sadly they do not seem to have change . I be surprise by the comment of the Leader of the Opposition . I be surprised to see the new shadow Business Secretary say that the minimum wage be " something that legislator pass to make themselves feel good . " I disagree . I be very proud of the fact that this Labour Government have raise wage for 3 million low - pay worker , and I expect the Conservative party to welcome that . after 14 year shape the UK ' s long - term strategy for life science , agritech , fusion and space , I welcome the Government ' s industrial strategy . however , too many of our great company be be buy out by our competitor . to build the industry of tomorrow here , we need to unlock some of the hundred of billion of pound in UK pension fund in the City , only 3 % of which be now invest in UK equity . with the new Lord Mayor make that a priority , and the Mansion House speech imminent , will the new Government commit to see through the previous Government ' s reform to unlock british capital for british research and development growth ? I thank the hon . member for welcome the industrial strategy . I know that this issue be close to his heart ; he have speak about and act on it for many year . the Budget see record R & D investment , with over £ 20 billion next year , include over £ 2 billion to support our world - lead life science sector . through the British Growth Partnership , we will crowd in pension fund investment to support innovative business , and we have launch our landmark pension review to unlock billion of pound of investment into the UK and boost growth and living standard across the country . as the Chancellor say last week , we be leave a toxic legacy by the previous Government , include river fill with polluted waste . will the Prime Minister put the River Wye into special measure by designate it a water protection zone , and will he meet I and the excellent cross - border Wye Catchment Partnership to deliver its plan to clean up the Wye ? the River Wye be one of our most important and iconic river , and we be work closely with the Welsh Government on that press issue . the destruction of our waterway should never have be allow . that be why we have launch a water commission to attract investment and speed up infrastructure delivery , and why we have introduce legislation to enable tough penalty and severe fine to crack down on polluter . I will ensure that my hon . friend get a meeting with the relevant Minister . I call the Father of the House . as a good lawyer , the Prime Minister will want to listen to the evidence , so if evidence mount from expert and organisation such as the National Farmers Union that small family farm of average size — 250 acre — will be severely impact by the tax change , will he , in a spirit of compromise , listen to that evidence , keep an open mind and perhaps be prepared to raise the threshold in order to preserve our family farm ? we be listen to farmer , and the Environment Secretary and Treasury Ministers meet with the NFU on Monday . we have take a fair and balanced approach : the vast , vast majority of farm will not be affect . what I will also say be that have grow up in a rural community , I know that rural community also need an nhs that be back on its foot , school that their child can go to and home that their family can afford to live in , but we will continue to talk to the NFU and other . this week , the Leader of the Opposition tell we that any outrage at suitcase full of wine and karaoke machine in Downing Street while people across the country be tell to stay at home be all " overblown " . for the people and business in my constituency who follow the rule — many of we at great personal cost — this be an insult . will the Prime Minister join I in ensure that we as a country learn the lesson from covid , and that the Conservatives as a party learn the lesson of their behaviour too ? across the country , people make enormous sacrifice during covid . they miss wedding , birth and death — really important moment in their and their family ' live . in do so , they save the life of people they will probably never meet . that be a collective effort , and unfortunately the party opposite , who set the rule , do not follow they themselves . it be a betrayal of those who do , and I think the Leader of the opposition be wrong to describe the public anger and upset as " overblown " . I be sure she will want to clarify that at the first opportunity . I call Llinos Medi . Diolch , Llefarydd . representative of Glan Rhos nursing home in my constituency tell I that the Budget change mean a 10 % increase in their in - year cost — a staggering £ 127 , 500 extra . will the Prime Minister reconsider the rise in employer national insurance ? what we do in last week ' s Budget be ensure that no one would face tax rise in their payslip . we have to deal with the £ 22 billion black hole , but when we do so , we protect the small business and charity . we double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , mean that 40 % of employer will not pay employer national insurance contribution . company with four employee or few on the minimum wage will pay no employer nic at all , and half of business that pay nic will see no change or pay less after the Budget . my constituent be pleased to hear last week ' s Budget prioritise investment in public infrastructure , include important project such as the electrification of the Wigan to Bolton railway line , which will deliver more reliable and greener journey . do the Prime Minister agree that investment in the key infrastructure of town such as Horwich , Westhoughton , Blackrod and Bolton be the only way to deliver economic growth and prosperity for all ? my hon . friend be a champion for the north - west , and the Budget secure investment for vital transport project to transform connectivity across the north of England and drive economic growth . that include complete the Wigan to Bolton electrification — a really important moment on Northern Powerhouse Rail . over £ 5 billion have be allocate to support everyday journey for work people . by restore economic stability and increase investment , we be take our country forward . the Swan Youth Project in Berkhamsted be an incredible drop - in centre that intervene to bring hope and a well future to teenager such as Lex and Megan , who have be face anxiety , depression and long mental health waiting list , as well as family cope with special educational need and disability . its representative have already write to the Treasury say that they be worried about get the fund they need , as our community face a tough winter and grant be deplete . Parul , the manager , also assure I that she make a mean curry and would welcome the Prime Minister , so will he join I to discuss their concern and ensure that the Swan Youth Project and similar organisation in the third sector get the support they need as they work tirelessly for our community ? the hon . Lady will be pleased to know that I have be to berkhamste a number of time , as we have very good friend who live there . I pay tribute to the work of the Swan Youth Project ; too many young people — she cite some of they — be struggle with mental health and not receive the support they need . that be why we will recruit an additional 8 , 500 mental health worker and be introduce long - overdue reform to the Mental Health Act 1983 . that be happen today . we will put more money into SEND , but we also need to look at reform SEND , which I think and hope will be support across the House . I will ensure that she get a meeting with the relevant Ministers about that . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister will know that after 14 year of Tory ideological hostility and cut , our university be in financial meltdown . the University of East Anglia , in my constituency , be have to make redundancy , as be many other . our right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education have start to address the problem , but we need a long - term solution that do not simply saddle our young people with more debt . can my right hon . friend the Prime Minister say how we can move to fix the foundation of high education as we go forward ? my hon . friend be right to raise high education . we inherit a sector face severe financial challenge . university have suffer a real - term decline in their income and the gap between disadvantaged student and their peer be the high on record . we have have to take tough decision to put that on a secure footing , but we be also take the step of ease live pressure by increase maintenance loan , which be worth an extra £ 414 per year . Jo Hamilton , my constituent and a former sub - postmistress , have long campaign with Alan Bates for compensation follow the Horizon Post Office scandal . can the Prime Minister give an exact timeframe in which those who have be wait more than a decade might finally be compensate ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise this important issue . a commitment be make to properly compensate the victim of this scandal . unfortunately , the Conservative Government , have make that commitment , regrettably do not allocate any money . her constituent will be pleased to know that we have change the approach . we have set out the compensation within the Budget — a transparent , accountable Budget — and we will make the payment as soon as we can . I echo the Prime Minister ' s sentiment towards that other son of Lewis — although I wish that I have wake up today in the Isle of Harris . my constituent there face long delay , cancellation and loss of service because of the SNP ' s incompetent handling of ferry procurement . in last week ' s Budget the Scottish Government receive a record settlement . may I urge the Prime Minister to tell Scottish Ministers to use that to improve public service in Scotland , to invest in the NHS in Na h - Eileanan an Iar , to build school in place such as Barra and finally to fix the ferry fiasco ? last week in the Budget we deliver the large settlement for the Scottish Government in real term since devolution . that include £ 3 . 4 billion through the Barnett formula , a fuel duty freeze and an increase to the national living wage , benefit my hon . friend ' s constituent and all those across Scotland . the result of the Budget be now clear . the SNP in power in Scotland have the power and they now have the money , so they have no more excuse . do the Prime Minister think it be acceptable for a Back - Bench MP to suggest that the Leader of the opposition represent " white supremacy in blackface " and be " the most prominent member of white supremacy ' s black collaborator class " , with all the race traitor innuendo that that carry ? if he do not , why have he not remove the Whip ? no , I do not . as a semi - retired violinist and rock musician ask a semi - retired multi - instrumentalist , I feel confident that the Prime Minister share my belief in the importance of music education . do he agree that , as we unleash the potential of our country , we must invest in the educational infrastructure of creative art subject so that they be accessible to all , and will he visit my constituency , to see the great work of the school there despite the inheritance that we receive ? I be not sure about the description " semi - retired " , although that may be the wish of the conservative party . what I know from personal experience be that music , the creative subject and art be really important not only for the pleasure and knowledge that they give to child and young people but for the experience of work in group and leadership . that be why we be determined to ensure that they be count as subject again in the curriculum , which will encourage many more school to provide they in the curriculum and enrich the future of child and young people across the country . before the election , the Prime Minister claim that he would not put up national insurance contribution ; he put they up . before the election , he claim that he would scrap tuition fee ; he put they up . before the election , he say that he would not tax family farm ; he be tax they . will he address his party ' s grow reputation for dishonesty by make good on his commitment to close the Wethersfield asylum accommodation centre in my constituency ? we be keep the promise that we make in our manifesto . the right hon . Gentleman ' s problem be that he can not add up ; if he could , he might be down on the Front Bench rather than up on the Back Benches . we will take up the issue in his constituency . Monday mark the seven - year anniversary of my constituent Jagtar Singh Johal ' s arbitrary detention in India . can the Prime Minister assure I that he and his Government will do all they can to secure Jagtar ' s immediate release and bring he home ? yes . we be committed to push the Government of India on this important case . the Foreign Secretary have raise it and will continue to do so , and we will ensure that we speak to my hon . friend as we do so . that complete Prime Minister ' s question . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . do the Leader of the Opposition want to correct the record , as she say in Prime Minister ' s question that the Chancellor do not mention defence spending in her Budget , yet the Chancellor mention it many , many time , include its allocation of £ 2 . 9 billion , which far exceed our commitment ? it be not for I to correct the record — and that be not a point of order — but the right hon . Lady have do it . small Boat Crossings ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department to make a statement on the recent increase in dangerous , illegal and unnecessary channel crossing by small boat ? for too long , smuggling gang have be undermine our border security and put life at risk , which be why the new Government have make it a top priority to address the crisis we inherit . let we be clear about what that crisis entail : small boat crossing in the first half of the year at their high point on record , and over 100 , 000 arrival in the five year prior ; over 200 , 000 case stick in the asylum system , cost the taxpayer billion in support ; and £ 700 million spend on a gimmick that send just four volunteer to Rwanda . when we enter government , we say it be time for grip , not gimmick , and that be exactly what we be deliver . since July , we have establish the border security command , head by experienced police chief Martin Hewitt . in the King ' s Speech , we set out our intention to bring forward legislation to give the border security system strong power to investigate and prosecute organise immigration crime . we be recruit 100 new specialist agency and investigation officer at the National Crime Agency to target and dismantle the criminal network behind this phenomenon . we have also announce an extra £ 75 million to bolster border security , bring our investment in the border security command over the next two year to £ 150 million . this government ' s border security funding boost will go towards a range of enforcement and intelligence activity and capability include covert technology as well as hundred of staff and specialist investigator as we crank up the pressure on the smuggling gang . this be an international problem require international solution . since the general election we have intensify co - operation with partner overseas . we recently strike a new anti - smuggling action plan with G7 partner and the Prime Minister and Home Secretary both attend the interpol general assembly in Glasgow on Monday to press the case for a much strong and more integrated global response to organise immigration crime . as well as tackle the issue upstream , we have take action to speed up decision making and step up return of those with no right to be in this country . the result of all this action be 9 , 400 return since this Government take office include a 19 % increase in enforce return and a 14 % increase in return of foreign national offender . stick plaster and gimmick have fail . the smuggler and trafficker have be get away with it for far too long . it be time to show they we be serious , not with word , but with action . the security of Britain ' s border be paramount and under this government it always will be . I call the shadow Leader of the House , Chris Philp . Shadow Home Secretary ; thank you , Mr Speaker . I be afraid the Government ' s action belie the reality . since they come to office , 17 , 520 people have cross the english channel , more than twice the number they have remove . that be one and a half time the number in the previous four month and 15 % more than the same period last year . in October alone , last month , 5 , 417 people cross , three time high than in last October . tragically , since this government come to office 50 people have lose their life or go missing — more than in the previous 18 month put together — and , tragically , that include 16 woman and child . this Government decide — they choose — to cancel the Rwanda scheme before it have even start . the first flight be due to take off , from memory , on 24 July but they cancel it . have they allow that to go ahead and the scheme to continue , the deterrent effect would by now have start . we know it work , because it work in Australia under its Operation Sovereign Borders about 10 year ago . we know the deterrent effect of return work : it work with Albania where we secure a 93 % reduction in arrival . do not just take my word for it : the National Crime Agency say that law enforcement alone be not enough and we need an effective removal scheme to deter crossing . the Government ' s announcement in Glasgow on Monday be simply not enough , and they repeat work that be under way already . the NCA and I be not the only one say that we need a return deterrent . just a few week ago , European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen encourage member state to develop their own return hub outside the European Union . will the Minister follow Ursula von der Leyen ' s advice and urgently implement offshore processing ? may I also draw attention to the success that Belgium have have in stop boat by the shore ? will the Minister ask France to do the same ? finally , because of their failing labour be break their manifesto pledge to end hotel use , so will she pledge not to open any more hotel ? I welcome the right hon . Gentleman — the shadow Home Secretary — to his new Front - Bench position . what a pleasure it be to be opposite he ; I be go to look forward to joust with he over the year . on the Rwanda scheme , during the period from when it begin to when we scrap it , 83 , 500 people cross in small boat . if that be a deterrent , the right hon . Gentleman have a peculiar view of the meaning of " deterrence " in the english language . when I realise that we be do this urgent question , I take the opportunity to look at the right hon . Gentleman ' s record as a Home Office Minister . during his first stint at the Home Office — from September 2019 to 2021 — 23 , 849 people cross the channel on small boat . during his second ministerial sojourn at the Home Office , 50 , 637 people cross the channel in small boat , so his overall total be 74 , 486 . in September 2020 , the shadow Home Secretary answer an urgent question . he say that the last government would " not rest until we have take the necessary step to completely end these crossing . " — [ Official Report , 2 September 2020 ; Vol . 679 , c . 168 . ] how do that go ? in 2018 , 400 cross the channel . since then , more than 140 , 000 have cross , the majority of they on the Conservatives ' watch . all they could introduce be ridiculous gimmick , such as Rwanda , which cost taxpayer million of pound . do the Minister agree that the new injection of cash into border security command be a well use of taxpayer ' money than the gimmick that the Conservatives introduce ? yes , I agree wholeheartedly . the issue here be deal with cross - border organise immigration crime . to do that , we have to talk to our international ally and co - operate with they across border . that be exactly what the creation of the border security command will do , both operationally and politically , and we will see the result . we now come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . I join the Minister in welcome the new shadow Home Secretary to his place . lead with the chin on the first full day in the job be an interesting approach , but if any situation highlight the manifest failing of the last Conservative Government , it be surely this . we in this House all want to stop the dangerous channel crossing . I be afraid that the last government totally fail at that , so I be surprised we be discuss it today . the asylum backlog balloon under the Tories . the human being we be talk about who be in these small boat be often the victim of smuggling and traffic gang that profit from human suffering . do the Minister agree that it be therefore imperative that we work in close co - ordination than ever before with Europol and our french counterpart to smash these criminal network ? I urge the Government to address the root cause of the problem , not just the symptom . we must empower the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to provide robust aid to region in an increasingly unstable world . the hon . Lady be exactly right . this be not about gimmick , or have a parallel immigration policy that be unconnected with any of the treaty we have sign or international law ; it be about do the day job , and make sure not to leave an inheritor Government a 200 , 000 - person backlog by not do the day job . the issue with small boat crossing be deal with organised , internationally focus immigration crime , which often originate in country very far away . to tackle this issue , we have to co - operate with the force of law and order operationally , across border , and that be what this Government be determined to do . may I welcome the Government ' s approach on this issue , and the 23 % increase in enforce removal since last summer ? I agree with the Minister that the way to deal with this issue be to smash the criminal gang . I urge she to consider what attention she give to the shadow Home Secretary who , when he be a Home Office Minister , impose hotel on my constituency , and be the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for Liz Truss during the mini - Budget . the shadow Home Secretary ' s record in office be a matter that we may well keep come back to . I agree with the observation that my hon . friend make . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . everybody in this House want an end to small boat crossing and the risk that people take to cross the channel . the Minister have announce a number of measure this week . when do she expect those measure to start produce a reduction in crossing ? will she commit to keep the Select Committee inform on progress ? it be my first chance to congratulate the right hon . Lady on her election as Chair of the Select Committee . I look forward to come before her Committee whenever she wish to talk to I . the Department certainly wish to keep she informed about what be go on . there have be a significant shift in international co - operation , what with the G7 collaboration on smuggling and the dialogue of the European Political Community , of which there be a meeting tomorrow , at which we hope there will be some announcement . the Government have also be work on bilateral memorandum of understanding and action plan across Europe to achieve a step change in cross - border co - operation , which be the key to beginning to tackle the awful criminal smuggling activity . in the five year before the election , I work on prevent human trafficking in Scotland , include with many of the victim who come on small boat crossing . they have go through the most appalling abuse that chill the soul . do the Minister agree that public money be far well spend on smash the gang and free the victim than on a Rwanda plan that be never go to work ? yes , I agree profoundly with my hon . friend , which be why the new Government have change tack in this area . I be sure that we will see the result in due course . the Government have pledge million of pound to smash the gang , on top of the million of pound that we spend on stop the boat . the Government have pledge more drone on the channel and to fast - track case , just as we deploy drone on the channel and fast - track case . the Government have set up a border security command , which sound remarkably similar to the small boat operational command that we set up when in government . other than scrap the one thing that would have work — that is , the deterrent — what have this Government do that be different that be actually go to stop the boat ? first , the border security command be operationally completely different from the command on the channel , which be deliberately there to try to save life and find out what be go on on the water . operationally , the border security command will co - operate across border in a very different way . if I be the right hon . and learn Lady , I would not be boast about the colossal morass of waste expenditure that the Rwanda scheme represent — £ 700 million down the drain , with plan to spend nearly £ 10 billion on the plan over the next few year . it be a gross waste of money that do not deter a single boat crossing . the gang that run this vile trade care only for their profit , not for the life that they put at risk . will the Minister reassure the House and my constituent in East Thanet that the border security command will do everything to break the evil smuggling gang and bring the ringleader to justice ? yes ; the point of the increase in operational co - operation across border be that if we can not bring people to justice in our jurisdiction , we can ensure that information be swap in real time , so that they can be bring to justice in other jurisdiction . there will be a step change in that kind of international co - operation , which will deliver result . will the Minister describe clearly and unambiguously , without bluster , the difference in function between the border security command and the small boat operational command ? the border security command be not focus only on channel crossing ; it be much more about use our intelligence capability and our operational arm to co - operate across border , with other jurisdiction and in real time , to ensure that organise criminal gang can be track , apprehend and dismantle . we have give £ 150 million extra to the border security command to start to do that work . the command on the channel be about save life and co - operate with the French once people have reach the beach . it be far too late once people have reach the beach ; we need to go far back to the origin country , and do a lot more work there . will the Minister acknowledge the real concern feel by people in the UK and in my city of Portsmouth about the small boat crossing ? do she agree that the 23 % increase since last summer in enforce return of people who have no right to be here show what can be do when grow - up be in the room , and when a Government focus on get a grip ? I absolutely agree with the point my hon . Friend make . there be 120 conflict globally , which , along with other factor such as poverty , food insecurity and the effect of climate change , cause population to move . do the Minister agree that , as my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) point out , it be essential that we look at the root cause of immigration ? do she therefore support an increase in the development and aid budget , rather than the cut in official development assistance in last week ' s Budget ? in the end , any work that we can do upstream , whether in respect of development or aid , will deal with some of the cause , some of which the hon . Lady rightly point out . we have to stay within the bound set by the Budget , but I assure she that I regard prevention as much well than cure . this Government inherit a situation on our border in which there be failure on all front . there be record number of tragic death in the channel , million waste on the fail Rwanda gimmick , and criminal gang profiteer off exploit our border . will the Minister reassure my constituent that , unlike the previous Government , we will not waste time on political gimmick , but will focus on the practical measure that can bring an end to the persistence of these damn failure ? I assure my hon . friend that we will do exactly that . it be why we have see a step change in return since this Government take office . there have be 9 , 400 in that period , which include a 19 % increase in enforce return and a 14 % increase in return of foreign national offender . we will ensure that our immigration system have integrity . sometimes , when listen to the exchange between Labour Front Benchers and the Conservatives , we can forget that we be deal with real people who be flee the most unimaginable horror . aside from the bizarre Rwanda plan , why be the Minister continue with the same fail approach as the Tories ? the Government continue to spend million on hotel , drone and various bit of high tech ; how about try something different ? how about look at safe and legal route , in order to smash the gang ? and how about show some compassion ? I be not go to get into a competition with the hon . Gentleman about compassion . we have a duty to ensure that asylum seeker who come to our shore be properly process and deal with , and integrate in our society if asylum be grant . [ interruption . ] despite the hon . Gentleman chuntere away , I be not go to stand here and say that we will let people smuggler , who exploit people for money , decide who come to our country . we have to stop this trade ; that be not at odd with treat those who arrive here with compassion . when I stand for election on 4 July this year , my commitment to my voter be that we would smash the criminal gang and stop the small boat . at that point , the number of small boat crossing be 6 % high than in the bad ever year , 2022 . do the Minister welcome the datum that show that the number be now 9 , 000 low than in 2022 ? yes , but the House have to have patience . there be no magic wand to wave in this policy area , and there be no fantasy policy now that we have get rid of the Rwanda scheme . there be hard , day - to - day operational work to try to get the system that we inherit — which be in complete chaos , with huge backlog — back into some kind of order , so that we can run it properly , fairly and efficiently . that be what we be focus on . I recently listen to an interview with a retire former inspector of border and immigration , who be respond to the Government ' s announcement . he outline his concern about the impact of the measure on their own , without an effective deterrent , and about how the Government will measure their success — the percentage or volume by which they want to see small boat crossing reduce after the announcement . what percentage reduction in small boat crossing would the Government view as success ? I be not get into a number game in the House . we be try to deal with and dismantle a trade that be allow to become establish and industrialise on the previous Government ' s watch . I be not go to stand here and say , " it ' ll happen overnight , " but we will make progress . folk in Plymouth be really interested in how the Government will solve this big problem . they will welcome the increase in money towards deal with the problem and the increase in return . another thing they want be constructive , lively debate with idea in this place . unfortunately , the Opposition seem so devoid of idea that they will bang on for another four year about their landmark Rwanda policy to stop the boat — a fail scheme that get firmly reject by the electorate . do the Minister agree that the first sign of insanity be try the same thing over and over again and expect a different result ? yes . in the Home Office annual report , it be confirm that in 2022 - 23 £ 3 billion be spend on hotel cost for illegal migrant , average £ 8 million a day . the cruel inheritance tax assault on british family farm and business be estimate eventually to raise £ 520 million a year . do the Labour Government need to rethink their spending priority urgently ? no . we have just have a Budget , which we be in the middle of debate and will be vote on , and I expect that that will be the way we go forwards . the 23 % increase in return of people who have no right to be here be a really positive step in give the public confidence in our system . what measure be in place to continue to ensure that our process remain robust and that the trajectory of return continue ? we be ensure that the enforcement part of the Home Office that deal with return be give the resource it need to do that job , but to make it even more successful , we have to engage with those country to which we wish to return people so that we can have paper issue . again , the significant shift in international co - operation be what will deliver that . if Rwanda be a gimmick , why be Germany , Austria , Bulgaria , Cyprus , the Netherlands , Poland and Romania look at similar scheme ? give the number of crossing and death in the channel , would it not , with hindsight , have be wise at least to have allow the Rwanda scheme a trial run ? those country be not consider a Rwanda scheme ; they be all say that they will stay within the confine of international law . the Rwanda scheme definitely tear up international law , and it be plan to spend nearly £ 10 billion up until 2027 on try to remove 250 people a week from this country , and to spend nearly £ 3 billion on extra detention camp for they in this country . I do not think that represent british value or good value for money . give that only 3 % of people who arrive by small boat between 2018 and June 2024 have be return , a period of reflection from the conservative party on this issue would be welcome . do the Minister agree that a Government who have dispense with gimmick and who focus on the day job be deliver that progress on return ? yes , but let we not underestimate the fact that under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 nobody who arrive in that way could be process , so 118 , 000 people be wait to be process because the previous Government stop the system dead . we have to get the processing system go again — that be what we be do — so that we can get the flow of decision , return those who be not entitle to be here and integrate those who be entitle to stay . the Government have a mandate for try out their approach , and I wish they well . I have always feel that unless the boat be intercept and turn back near the start of their journey , nothing will deter people from use that method . will the Minister , whom I respect greatly , explain how it be possible to smash gang who operate in other jurisdiction once they get to the point where they withdraw their headquarters to country where there be no possibility of co - operation with the authority in charge of those state ? well , get to that level of withdrawal would be a fantastic development that would put incredible pressure on many of the supply line currently be use ; if we could get to that stage , we would have already make significant progress . the answer to what the right hon . Gentleman be talk about be international co - operation to put the maximum pressure on this terrible international trade in human life and exploitation . I be glad that he be give I a little bit of time to prove that we can make a difference . People in West Brom be appal by these criminal smuggling gang . do the Minister agree that the last Government waste £ 700 million on the totally fail Rwanda scheme ? could she set out how the new Government be go to fix the situation ? yes , and the repurposing of some of that money and resource that have not be lose be fund the new approach . do the Minister agree that the loss of life be colossally too high on these channel crossing , include the loss of a two - year - old child just the other week ? do she also agree that we should reopen safe route so that we can treat those come to this country with the dignity and respect that they deserve ? I do not believe that safe route would stop people from attempt to come over the channel in small boat . I have some sympathy with the idea of safe route , but I do not think they would stop this trade . for example , 1 , 500 Indians come across , and we have a visa regime with the Indians . the high nationality for small boat arrival this year be the Vietnamese . again , it be not always about people who be asylum seeker come over ; it be people who do not have a right to be here but be pay to come here . safe route would not solve that problem . the shadow Home Secretary refer to the life lose in the channel — every single one of they be a tragedy — but do the Minister agree that his try to make a political point about those death , as he appear to do , be beneath the conservative party , as be gimmick such as the Rwanda scheme ? yes , I agree . the loss of life in the channel this year have be the high on record , and that be because more pressure be be put on the gang , the boat be be overload and there be more anarchy on the beach in France . those be all thing that we have to try to deal with in co - operation with our french colleague . my constituent want to see an end to the small boat crossing and an end to the use of hotel for asylum seeker — as pledge in the Government ' s manifesto . will the Minister undertake to ensure that , where hotel have see asylum seeker move out , more be not put back in ? the issue with hotel and other dispersal accommodation be that we have inherit a backlog . owe to the way in which the Conservatives run the system , there be no processing of asylum seeker , who then have to be put up in hotel . hotel be temporary , not a solution . we will do our good to get out of deal with hotel as quickly as possible by get the system up and run and process those who be make claim , so that we can get they either approve and integrate or return . the Government come to power this year in the bad year on record for small boat crossing , which be 6 % high than in the previous record year of 2022 . that be the legacy of chaos leave by the last Government . there be no room for complacency , but do the Minister agree that we should be welcome the now 20 % low level of small boat crossing this year compare with 2022 ? I agree that the first six month of this year be the bad on record . there be then a quiet three month , and now there have be a huge increase , not least because of benign weather condition . I do not want to get into monthly figure . we need to bear down on the organise criminality that be perpetrate the trade , to disrupt it and deal with it that way . do the Minister recognise the distinct lack of humanity about this urgent question and the discussion surround small boat and migration ? do she not recognise that those people who risk all to get into those very dangerous boat and cross the chancel be do so in an act of desperation ? the lack of a safe route system across Europe have create a market for people trafficker . instead of the current approach , do she not think it necessary to look seriously at safe route for asylum seeker , to avoid the tragedy of all these death in the channel and , for that matter , in the Mediterranean ? I say early that safe route would not stop all the channel crossing . there be now an industrialise system run by organise immigration criminal . the Vietnamese would never have a safe route into the UK — there be no visa system — yet they now comprise 20 % of the people cross on small boat . with all due respect to the right hon . Gentleman , I do not think that safe route would solve the problem . the last Government be responsible for an asylum backlog so large that they end up spend million of pound of taxpayer ' money every day on asylum hotel , include in my constituency . as the Minister say , we be now deal with that legacy , and I welcome her statement . do she agree that we will take no lesson from the conservative party , and that we will continue to make progress towards our manifesto commitment to bring down the backlog and end hotel use ? I could not have put it well myself . I think there be unanimity in the House that this be a moral issue . when I raise the issue of deterrence with the Home Secretary at her last statement on 22 July , she seem to agree that we need a deterrent . since then , the Government do not seem to have bring forward any specific deterrence . if not the Rwanda scheme , will the Minister look at the scheme that other european nation be consider to see whether we can deter the small boat crossing ? the way to deter the small boat crossing be to deal with those who be organise and profit from that immoral trade . that be what we be do . the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , and Conservative Members be still bang the drum for the fail Rwanda gimmick . do the Minister agree that if the previous Government be so confident that that policy would work , they would not have call an election before that theory could be put to the test ? my hon . friend make an intriguing point , give that Conservative Members have say repeatedly that they be about to start the Rwanda scheme the week after the election , and that all of a sudden it would work and be perfect — after 83 , 500 people cross in small boat know that the scheme be legislate for and in place . I suspect , somehow , that the date of the election might have have a bit to do with the fact that they realise the Rwanda scheme would fail . the Minister be claim credit for an increase in deportation of people with no right to be in this country . I want an approximate figure , please , of how many of the 9 , 400 people who have be send back since the Labour Government come in arrive here in small boat since 2018 ? give that the conservative party process virtually nobody who come over in a small boat , they be still in the asylum backlog that we be attempt to deal with . I be pleased to see this Government take swift action to tackle the small boat crisis , include scrap the Rwanda scheme , which be not only ludicrously expensive but inhumane and ineffective . will the Minister confirm that it be possible to manage our border in a way that be both effective and humane , and that we will do that ? that be certainly the balance that this Government be aim to achieve . the Minister have say that her policy to smash the criminal gang will reduce the number of migrant cross the channel . can she give the House her estimation of when that policy will start to work ? I say in an early answer that there be no magic wand in this area . tough operational processing and international co - operation will begin to bear down on this , and work by the National Crime Agency and by prosecutorial authority , often cross - border in different jurisdiction . the fact that we have make such a good start with international co - operation and the significant shift in attention here will bear down on this , but I will not stand at this Dispatch Box and pretend that there be an easy timeframe or answer for when that will have the effect that we all want it to have . we will bear down on it and we will make progress . at a time of highly stretch resource right across Government , thank to the mess in the public finance leave by the Conservative party , my constituent will be pleased that £ 75 million have be secure for further investment in the Border Security Command . do the Minister agree that it be a far well use of taxpayer ' money than pay people to go to Rwanda or housing they in hotel at great expense ? yes , it be advisable to try to deal with the immediate cause of the problem — organise immigration criminality — as well as bear down on the long - term cause , which often be about political stability in other area of the world . I thank the Minister for her answer . I want to take a slightly different look . I welcome the fact that smuggler will now be treat use terrorism power , as it be my firm belief — and the belief of this House , I think — that the continue abuse of the asylum system be tantamount to an invasion . can the Minister assure we that those who come across the Northern Ireland border will also be subject to the terrorism provision ? a border security Bill will be introduce . perhaps the hon . Gentleman will want to serve on the Committee , so that he can be certain that the point he just make be accurately reflect by the Government in that Bill . one of the most colossal failure under the previous Government be the chaos in the channel and the associate backlog in the system , yet the Conservatives seem to have come here today to tell the british people that they have it all under control . can the Minister reassure my constituent of the serious step she be take to disrupt the gang , speed up return and end this chaos . yes , my hon . friend ' s constituent can be assure that a great deal of work be go on and more resource be be apply . a lot more intelligence be be gather , much of which can not be discuss publicly . we be on it . I strongly welcome the Government ' s focus on tackle the root cause of organise crime behind the small boat , rather than the gimmick of the previous Government . across Kent , the criminal gang be fuel a rise in organised crime , and in my constituency that be push up rural crime , street crime and antisocial behaviour . will my hon . friend ensure that the new Border Security Command work closely with Kent police to deal with the effect across the whole of Kent and the wide country ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . some area have suffer particular pressure from this phenomenon over the year , and Kent be one of they , so I be acutely aware of the pressure that he and the local authority in that area be under . over the past 14 year , the conservative party see this issue become a grow crisis . conservative Members have speak much today about how we need a deterrent , but do the Minister agree that , for someone who be willing to get into a vessel of questionable seaworthiness to cross one of the busy shipping lane on the planet , a 3 % chance of a trip to Kigali be not a deterrent ? the only way of get a handle on this be to go back to where the problem originate . wait for people to get to the channel be delay the response and create the crisis that the Conservatives oversee . I agree very much with my hon . friend ' s observation , and so do the figure . between the date of the announcement of the Rwanda scheme and the date of the last general election , 83 , 500 people come across in small boat . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) say that it have not start then . the Conservatives begin by say that Rwanda would be a deterrent when their Bill be publish , and then every time it make no difference , they take it back and say , " it will work , it will work . " it would never have work . it cost £ 700 million , and they have budget — but not budget — for nearly £ 10 billion of expenditure by the end of that scheme . give that at the end of 2022 , under the last Conservative Government , the asylum backlog have reach 166 , 261 , an elevenfold increase in 12 year , do my hon . friend agree that Conservative Members — who be very small in number for their own urgent question — be exhibit a high degree of audacity ? they be indeed , and perhaps they should also be remind that return collapse on their watch as well . personal Statement Order . before I call the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) to make his personal statement , I remind the House that such statement should be hear in silence and without interruption . with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a personal statement , in compliance with the finding of the Independent Expert Panel in its report . I accept the finding of the panel and the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards in full and without reservation . on 23 November 2023 , at the Derby Gate entrance , I be involve in an incident with a security guard . during the incident , I speak to the complainant in a manner that be totally unacceptable , and which include swearing and other language that go against the House of Commons bully and harassment policy . I would like to apologise to the complainant and to the House for my behaviour . our security staff do an incredible job and should always be treat with the utmost respect . an MP ' s behaviour must always be of a high standard . I give you , Mr Speaker , and the House my firm assurance that I have learn significant lesson through this process , and a firm undertaking that such behaviour on my part will never happen again . I thank the hon . member . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . have you receive any notice of a statement from the Government ? I know that a number of member have write to the Foreign Secretary , in particular , about the case of the writer and human right activist Alaa Abd el - Fattah , who have serve five year in an egyptian prison for organise human right protest . he be mean to be release in September but have still not be . his mother , Laila , have now be on hunger strike for four week , and many of we be concerned about the risk to her life . if a statement be not forthcoming , perhaps those on the Treasury Bench could urge the Government to make firm representation to Egypt to release Mr Abd el - Fattah . the right hon . Gentleman be in danger of answer his own point of order . I have receive no notification of a statement , but I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have take his point on board . let I also say to he that I know he will not rest there on this matter ; that he will use all other avenue available to he ensure that the profile of the case be raise — I would expect nothing else . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . this concern the lack of response to my cross - party correspondence address to the Foreign Secretary , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , and the Defence Secretary , date 13 September 2024 . in that letter I , along with 36 parliamentary colleague , request clarification on the Government ' s decision to exempt offensive F - 35 fighter jet component from the 30 out of 350 licence that they have suspend for item that could be use in Israel ' s genocidal assault on Gaza , as there be a clear risk that they may be use to commit or facilitate a serious violation of international humanitarian law . give the significance of the issue and its implication for the UK ' s international obligation , it be imperative that MPs receive a comprehensive response . have to wait two month for a reply raise question — order . I have absolutely get the point of order . obviously , this be not my responsibility , but I take it seriously if any Member of this House write to the Government and do not receive a timely reply . I be here to defend whoever the correspondence be from and ensure that they receive a reply . I be entirely convinced that those on the Front Bench will have hear what have be say and will already be look to get that reply . if not , the hon . Lady should inform I and we will raise it again . I thank she for her point of order . bill present Financial Assistance to Ukraine Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 50 ) Darren Jones , support by the Prime Minister , James Murray , Tulip Siddiq and Emma Reynolds , present a Bill to make provision for loan or other financial assistance to be provide to , or for the benefit of , the government of Ukraine . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 11 November , and to be print ( Bill 48 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 48 - EN ) . Armed Forces Commissioner Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary John Healey , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Yvette Cooper , Secretary David Lammy , Secretary Hilary Benn , Secretary Ian Murray , Secretary Jo Stevens , Dan Jarvis , Maria Eagle and Luke Pollard present a Bill to establish , and confer function on , the Armed Forces Commissioner ; to abolish the office of Service Complaints Ombudsman ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 11 November , and to be print ( Bill 124 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 124 - en ) . child Criminal Exploitation ( no . 2 ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Victoria Atkins present a Bill to create an offence of child criminal exploitation ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November 2024 and to be print ( Bill 75 ) . Horticultural Peat ( prohibition of Sale ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide for the prohibition of the sale in England of horticultural peat by the end of 2025 ; to provide for certain exemption from that prohibition ; and for connected purpose . let I begin by pay tribute to the right hon . Theresa Villiers , the former Member for Chipping Barnet , who previously work hard to bring this Bill through Parliament , and by thank Rebecca Pow , the former Member for Taunton Deane , who also endeavour to secure a ban on the sale of peat . somerset be one of only two county in England where peat extraction still take place . the Somerset level and moor be the second large area of lowland deep peat in England , contain 11 million tonne of carbon . however , drain deep peat be a major source of greenhouse gas emission and , along with peat extraction , could be responsible for as much as 255 , 000 tonne of co2 per year , accord to a 2023 report publish by eftec . somerset ' s peatland be extremely rare and valuable habitat for wildlife . they be the perfect place for plant such as the sundew and the marsh violet , which in turn support invertebrate and bird population . ban the sale of peat and protect our peatland both at home and abroad be crucial . I say " abroad " because we offshore most of our peatland emission by import about 60 % of the peat use in horticulture in the UK . all the major party agree with the proposal for a ban . the Liberal Democrats have pledge to restore peatland and ban the use of horticultural peat , Labour ' s 2024 manifesto promise to expand nature - rich habitat such as peat bog , and the last Conservative Government make several attempt , despite fail to ban peat in their 14 year in office . in 2011 , the previous Government say that they want to reduce the amount of peat in compost voluntarily by 2020 , but as the amount of peat fall by only a quarter in the subsequent year , the threat of legislation be introduce . a consultation by the last Government also reveal how popular a ban be , with 95 % of respondent favour a ban on retail peat by the end of the last Parliament . however , no legislation have be introduce that would ensure a ban on sell peat , so a vast amount of uncertainty remain in the industry today . I want to be absolutely clear how important it be that the horticultural industry be consider and consult before any legislation seek to ban peat be introduce . but ban horticultural peat be the right thing to do , and that be already support by a vast number of people in the industry , and , if do correctly , will bring huge opportunity for british horticulture . in September this year , professional grower , gardener , nursery owner , compost manufacturer , retailer and supporter of peat - free horticulture write to the Prime Minister demand a sale ban . the signatory include B & Q , Co - op supermarket , Chris Beardshaw , Alys Fowler , Chris Packham , the Soil Association , the National Trust , the Wildlife Trust , CPRE , Evergreen Garden Care , Vitacress and the Royal Horticultural Society , to name just a few . I recently visit Durston Garden Products , just outside Street , which be the large manufacturer of grow medium in southern England . it produce 6 million bag a year , and it support a ban on the sale of peat . three quarter of the bag that Durston currently produce be peat free ; five year ago , the figure be just one quarter . that be because Durston , like most of the industry , take the previous Government at their word when they commit to ban the sale of peat . Durston have do what it believe be the right thing for the business and for the environment , and it have put in the time , effort and money to develop alternative grow medium that can outperform peat . as it stand , however , the investment that Durston have make to prepare for a peat - free market have be for nothing . Britain be a gardening nation . in fact , there be 30 million gardener in the country , and 70 % of they be interested in garden more sustainably . the positive reaction to my Bill be announce demonstrate the feeling in the industry . the chair of the grow Media Association , Simon Blackhurst , tell the industry ' s main trade magazine , Horticultural Week , that there be currently an " unfair commercial landscape " , as " peat base grow media be cheap than peat free . " Southern Trident ' s Steve Harper say : " there really be no argument for delay a retail peat ban " . Floralive ' s Sean Higgs say : " everyone be expect it now ( or believe it ' s already in place ) — to reverse would be counterproductive to the industry and undermine it on several count . " there be many fantastic example of business move towards be peat free . one such business be Kelways in Langport , in my constituency , which no long sell compost contain peat and understand the shift that need to take place . move towards be peat free would help the Government to achieve their aim of move towards a circular economy . peat - free compost manufacturer want to keep supply chain close to home , and some , such as Miracle - Gro , have their own on - site waste processor to produce compost . other have partnership with local forestry and wood processing business . RocketGro in Somerset process digestate , a by - product of sustainable energy , into peat - free compost . advance in technology be clear evidence of the success of peat - free alternative . the Royal Horticultural Society be set to be 100 % peat free by the end of 2025 , and be now at the end of a second successful year of trial fund by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . the RHS have grow million of plant peat free in partnership with eight major wholesale grower , and develop practice to help the wholesale industry transition smoothly . by end the use of horticultural peat at home , we can reduce our reliance on foreign , import plant grow in peat , and support british peat - free grower . I be fully aware that any ban would require exemption , time for business to transition , and support from the Government to help business move forward , but set date in stone through legislation would remove the uncertainty that be damage the industry and reduce opportunity . I turn to the impact that a ban on peat would have on peatland . Peat grow at a rate of 1 mm per year but can degrade by 1 cm per year if it be in bad condition , which , sadly , be the case for 86 % of our peatland . as I touch on early , they be amazing and rare habitat . give our current knowledge of the damage that peat extraction do to nature , the environment and the land around we , there be simply no excuse for not change course . somerset face ever more devastating flooding every winter , and the degradation and destruction of our peatland do little to worsen its impact by reduce peatland ' s ability to absorb excess rainwater and act as a natural flood defence , as an intact peat bog would do . whereas prevent the sale of peat open up opportunity for world - beat peat alternative , stop peat extraction open up opportunity for peat restoration , such as create new job by reskille the exist workforce to use their expertise in manage peatland for restoration . the destruction of these precious , important and beautiful habitat must stop . as many expert , the public and politician alike have outline , we must not miss our chance . I urge the House to support this Bill today and ensure that we take the step that would prevent the release of thousand of tonne of carbon , help we move towards a circular economy , open up opportunity for british horticulture and protect precious peatland . I be not go to oppose the right of the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) to bring in a Bill , because I believe in the right of member to bring forward whatever Bills they want . Most of they be ill conceived , and I have spend much of my time in this place attack Bills that would have unintended consequence . I think the hon . Lady ' s Bill will fit into the category of Bills that have good intention , but would have unacceptable unintended consequence . it will not go unnoticed that this Bill be a full - frontal attack on british horticulture , and that it be be promote by none other than the Liberal Democrats . the hon . Lady refer to the previous Bill , which I speak against on 16 April . it be a salutary reminder of the work of democrats in this country that none of the 12 member of this House who support that Bill be still a Member of the House — the electorate give their verdict on the ill - conceive support for it . I be delighted to say today that a number of my new and not so new colleague have say to I , " why can ' t you divide the House and oppose this Bill ? " I say to they , include my hon . friend the Members for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) and for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , that we should allow the Liberal Democrats to stew in their own juice and bring forward their Bill , so that it can be criticise and never reach the statute book . one would have think from the remark of the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton that she be a supporter of the Horticultural Trades Association . yesterday , the association run an event in this House , and so many people attend that the free indoor plant on offer be all scoop up about halfway through . if the hon . Lady go to collect her free plant , she obviously miss the opportunity to talk to representative of the association , who believe that her proposal would completely undermine british horticulture . what be most important — the HTA make this point — be that we should have a level playing field with european grower . we want to grow more tree . too few tree be be home - grow , and too many of they be be import . likewise , we want to promote garden product , but too many of they be be import . a very large proportion be be import from Holland , because , far from have a peat - free environment , Holland be the fast - grow export market for peat come into our country . Holland be also one of the large importer and exporter of peat , and it get a lot of its peat from Germany , Estonia , Belgium , Latvia and Sweden . the dutch use peat to make horticultural product , which be then sell into our market because those product be more acceptable to consumer , not least because they tend to last long , as peat be a substance that enable plant to retain moisture and water a lot long than product that be peat free , such as coir . some of the people who promote peat - free product do not seem to realise , when they talk about coir as a substitute , that it be produce mainly in the far east , particularly in Sri Lanka , and that it have to be wash and de - salt before it can be prepare for horticultural use and then have to be transport halfway across the world . that be not an ecologically friendly way of produce a peat substitute . there be another dimension to the issue of peat . what proportion of it be use in horticulture ? it be a very small proportion . I be tell that about 95 % of the peat consume in the world be use for peat fire . it be put into domestic boiler and mega - incinerator or use as a substitute for coal or even natural gas . by concentrate on just one aspect of the use of peat , in horticulture , we be ignore the much large problem of the burning of peat for fuel . I have look up how easy it be to buy peat for fuel in this country , and the late information be that I could get a pallet of 10 or so bag of peat deliver to my home for £ 260 . that peat come from exactly the same source as peat for agriculture . why be we have a go at the use of peat in horticulture and agriculture when we could be deal with the much large issue of the extraction of peat for heat our home ? this be a sensitive , emotional subject , but we need to have some hard - head realism around it . if you , like I , Madam Deputy Speaker , support british horticulture , you should be very much opposed to this Bill , because it be a full - frontal assault upon the viability of our horticulture industry and will result in less choice for all those who engage in horticulture , whether as amateur or professional gardener . I urge the hon . Lady to think carefully before she draft her Bill . if she think that it will be mitigate by have a lot of exemption set out in it , I challenge she to include on the face of her Bill all the exemption she think will be necessary , because only with thousand of exemption will the Bill be in any way acceptable . that be the challenge to she . that be why I be not go to oppose she bring forward her Bill . let we see what it say , but I fear it be go to be absolutely ghastly . I be disappointed , because I think the Liberal Democrats be the friend of people work in the countryside and in agriculture and horticulture , but this Bill suggest quite the reverse . I strongly oppose it . question put ( Standing Order no . 23 ) and agree to . order , that Sarah Dyke , Wera Hobhouse , Tim Farron , Pippa Heylings , Martin Wrigley , Caroline Voaden , Carla Denyer , Layla Moran , Tessa Munt , Richard Foord , Vikki Slade and Steve Darling present the Bill . Sarah Dyke accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 122 ) . way and Means Budget Resolutions Income Tax ( Charge ) Debate resume ( Order , 5 November ) . question again propose , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2025 - 26 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . I call Jonathan Reynolds . it be a pleasure to open this final day of the debate on the Chancellor ' s growth Budget . can I welcome the new shadow team ? it be lovely to see they in place . I think many of we on this side would admit that we be shadow Ministers for long than we ideally would have be , and I know that it be a tough and thankless job at time . on a personal level , I wish they well for the future . as the Chancellor rightly state , growth be our only path to prosperity , to increase living standard and to deliver the change that the british people vote for so decisively over the summer , and we on these Benches recognise that we can not have growth without investment . growth demand investment in our infrastructure , into our public service , into the city and region that have go overlook and under - invest in by past administration , and that be what this Budget choose . it choose investment over decline , with more than £ 100 billion of public investment into our road and our railway , our park and our playground , our school and our surgery — all the thing upon which a successful economy and a healthy society depend . this be a Budget for affordable home , for the NHS , for the school rebuilding programme and — a personal priority for I as MP for Stalybridge and Hyde — for the trans - Pennine route upgrade , include a new station at Mossley , which be something I be sure the whole House can be excited about and get behind . this be literally rebuild Britain in action , and make no mistake , business need that public investment too , because it create the right environment for they to thrive now and long into the future . that be why the Office for Budget Responsibility say that our increase in spending will drive up the long - term increase in GDP by up to 1 . 4 % . the Secretary of State make much of growth . of course we all want growth , but the OBR report actually say that growth in real GDP will start to slow over the next three year and that in year four and five of the Parliament it will go negative . it be tell we that the Government ' s Budget be actually go to result in a small private sector , not a large one . how be he go to explain that to business ? that be not what it say . first , on the figure , we can not make a like - for - like comparison because we know that the information provide by the previous Government in their financial information be erroneous . they do not square their own spending pledge with what be in those document . the analysis by the OBR show that long - term improvement in GDP growth be vital , but the right hon . Gentleman will recognise that it can not model some of the wide part of the Government ' s agenda . it can not model those change in the planning system that be so important to the Government . it can not model the change involve in have a long - term industrial strategy . it can not model our change to trade policy . I recognise that there be more to do to prove the case of the Government ' s overall commitment , but I can tell the right hon . Gentleman that fundamentally fix the foundation , honesty and stability in the public finance , and a focus on long - term public investment be essential to the long - term growth of the country . also , one thing that have not have sufficient recognition be that many of the real benefit of great public investment do not accrue in this Parliament ; they accrue beyond it , and it be about time we have some long - term focus again in this country . not before time , if I may say so . the right hon . Gentleman will , I hope , be aware that the long - term economic growth of this country rely not primarily on public investment or indeed public infrastructure , but on a healthy private sector — the wealth creator from whom we can take the funding to deliver into those good that he talk about and that be part of a balanced and successful society . this Budget do not help they . it do the opposite . I be sorry but , again , the right hon . Gentleman be wrong . I agree with part of his assessment , such as that a strong and thriving private sector be crucial to growth , but I find his analysis a little simplistic . private firm will say that they also need skilled worker , and that they need a decent transport system so they can get to work . under the last government , I would often get up in the morning and check my phone for update from people use the trans - Pennine line I just mention — the one we be upgrade — and it would be full of people say , " I can not get to work . " I need the right hon . gentleman to make a slightly broad analysis . despite the previous Government leave we with a rage skip fire in many area — we have to raise money , not to deliver our pledge but to deliver their pledge that they do not properly fund — we have have a regard and a heed for the level of competitiveness in the UK economy . for instance , on the rise in employer ' national insurance contribution , over half of all firm with national insurance liability will actually pay less or the same , not only because of the change to the employment allowance but because of how we have remove the threshold so that all firm now qualify . despite the frankly terrible inheritance bequeath to we , we have do our good to meet those need and to deliver a long - term focus on the future . will the Minister give way ? I be go to move on , but I can not resist the hon . Gentleman . I hope the Minister will not be disappoint . there be many good thing in what the Government have bring forward , but what be missing , unfortunately , be support for farmer on inheritance tax . farmer be the backbone of Britain , and they produce almost all the food we eat across this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . farmer will be impact greatly . I declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Farmers Union and the National Farmers ' Union , and all the farmer I talk to in Northern Ireland have indicate that every farmer in Northern Ireland will be affect by inheritance tax . if the Government want to get it right , the threshold need to be raise , and it be not too late . raise the threshold to £ 4 million or £ 5 million so that family farm , the backbone of Britain , can continue . I always listen to the hon . gentleman because he be genuine and conscientious in represent his constituency ' s interest . I will always listen to what he have to say . we can judge the exact impact of these change by look at the value of claim to date . the conservative party ' s analysis have forget to aggregate the impact of the change to those allowance , such as agricultural property relief , alongside the exist nil - rate band and the ability to transfer the allowance between spouse in all case . the total number of farm across the UK that will be affect by this change be actually only 500 for the 2026 - 27 financial year . that have be miss , and I remind colleague that any inheritance tax liability have a 10 - year , interest - free payment period . to be frank , there have be some scaremongere from the opposition , and we have to be clear with people . we have have to restore economic stability to deliver that investment , and we should not shy away from explain why this have be so necessary . the previous Government ' s scattergun approach to growth leave our country starve of investment , economically divide and struggle to maintain a competitive edge in the global economy . the previous Government ' s claim to have deliver the fast - grow economy in the G7 , base on its performance in the first half of this year , be laughably false . I believe that the Sunday Times liken it to someone walk a marathon in six hour but , because they run the last 100 yard , claim to be the fast runner in the world . the truth be that consistency and stability have be sorely lacking . we have have seven growth strategy since 2010 and 11 Business Secretaries in as many year , to say nothing of the UK ' s revolve door of Prime Ministers . will the Minister give way ? I have already give the right hon . Gentleman a go . I will make a little progress , and we will see whether he can do a well one next time . the result be a protract period of anaemic growth . have our economy grow at the average rate of other OECD country over this period , it would have be £ 171 billion large . imagine the difference that would have make to all of our community and to today ' s Budget debate . british firm , face such uncertainty , have not see invest domestically as a sufficiently attractive proposition . they have be reluctant to adopt new technology , to upskill their employee or to plough money into research and development . we have even hear that , in any give year , roughly 40 % of UK firm choose not to invest at all . we want to change that for good . we want to give business certainty , confidence and stability so that they can make decision for the long term . that be why , at the Budget , the Chancellor reaffirm our new modern industrial strategy . Invest 2035 will be a central pillar of our growth mission . the strategy will allow business to plan not just for the next 10 month , but for the next 10 year . it have already win the backing of make UK , which have tell we that business will no long have to " fear the constant chop and change in policy we have see over the last decade . " instead , they can focus on the long term . our industrial strategy will create a strong pro - business environment , make it simple and cheap for company to scale up and invest . it will unleash the potential of our high - productivity service and industry , because our recent economic history have teach we that we have to play to our strength . over the last 25 year , high - productivity sector be responsible for roughly 60 % of our economy ' s entire productivity growth . look at the figure since 1990 , over half of the UK economy ' s GDP growth have come from just three sector — information and communication technology , financial and professional service , and advanced manufacturing . that be why our industrial strategy will channel support to eight key growth - drive sector , those in which the UK service sector will excel both today and tomorrow — the service and industry that present the great opportunity for output and productivity growth over the long term . how do that all gel with the fact that the OBR be say that business investment will fall by 0 . 6 % , as a share of gdp , by 2029 ? it sound great , but it do not add up in the OBR ' s eye . will the Minister please elaborate ? we have a similar question . the Government ' s wide pro - business change can not be model by the OBR , and we know that we have to prove they . there be simply no way that we will get to the high business investment , the high productivity growth and the strong economic growth that we need in all part of the country unless we be honest , robust and responsible with the public finance , as this Budget be and the previous Government be not . if the Budget do not set the trajectory for strong long - term public investment , to leverage in that degree of private investment , we will not have the foundation to succeed . I be so excited by this budget because it give we those strong foundation for the future . the problem with our economy be that , too often , people build small business and then sell they off . they do not sit and develop they before potentially hand they on . can the Minister explain how the propose inheritance tax change will encourage people to take risk in nurture and grow their business in order to pass they on to succeed generation ? plainly , his suggestion will have the reverse effect and will , therefore , make the situation bad , which will damage growth . I ask the right hon . gentleman to look at the detail of our plan . from the datum hold by the Treasury , we can plan for how many firm will be affect , and it be a very small number . in most case , give the exist inheritance tax nil - rate band , especially where property be involve or where there be a transfer from one spouse to another in the inheritance chain , the allowance be so great that it be already considerably in excess of the average claim for relief in this area . the right hon . Gentleman be talk about a very small number of firm at the very large end . I think the revenue can be raise in a way that protect the kind of family firm he and I want to see continue to thrive . we all know there be case where , for instance , people advertise the sale of agricultural land or certain type of investment specifically to avoid inheritance tax , which be not right . that be not good for business . we have to recognise that these fair and proportionate change will pay for the last Government ' s spending commitment . the change will always have a benchmark for international competitiveness , in a way that the right hon . Gentleman should recognise rather than scaremonger . at the Budget , as a statement of intent for our new industrial strategy , we see the Chancellor make the first of many down payment with multi - year funding commitment for these area of our economy . there will be significant tax relief for our world - lead creative industry , up to £ 0 . 5 billion for a brand - new life science innovative manufacturing fund , and nearly £ 1 billion for our aerospace sector to fund vital research and development into jet zero technology , which will boost industry in the east midland , the south - west and Scotland . there be also £ 2 billion for our automotive sector , ensure that the next generation of electric vehicle be design , develop and build right here in the UK . at the same time , we recognise that our industrial strategy ' s success rest upon work in partnership with mayor and multinational , council and ceo , union and academic . that be why this government be champion local growth plan — growth plan for the long term — to be deliver by strong local political leadership , which will work together with the Government to create the right condition for success . crucially , our new industrial strategy will be international from the start , take learning from the good of what have be achieve globally so that we enable business of all size and sector to thrive in our market . to that end , it will work in lockstep with our trade strategy and our twin - track approach to trade , accede to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership and negotiating deal with the Gulf Co - operation Council and India , all to the benefit of british business . unlike the previous Administration , we be also make it much easy for UK firm to do business in and with Europe . although the opposition might not want to hear it , the EU be not just our close trading partner but be still our large trading partner , by quite some margin , yet the previous Government ' s adversarial approach to work with the EU — all that incendiary rhetoric — be not conducive to good business . we be change course , aim to remove unnecessary barrier to trade , so that british company will be able to operate more easily in France , Germany , Italy and across Europe . we be make real progress . early this month , the Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission issue a joint statement to deepen our co - operation on the economy , energy and security . we have agree to regular EU - UK summit to strengthen our connection in all those area , include the close business and investment tie that connect our economy . on the sector that will benefit , do the Secretary of State agree that the hospitality sector would benefit more from some honesty and openness ? the Government announce a 6 % increase for people on the minimum wage , many of whom be employ in the private hospitality sector , but while our constituent will pay for that , the Treasury will benefit by hundred of million of pound , because almost all those minimum wage earner will become taxpayer overnight . the hon . Gentleman should recognise that the Chancellor do not make an announcement on personal tax threshold , which , for some Conservative Members , be unexpected and reflect the difficult inheritance of the new Government . Labour member be proud of the minimum wage , now call the living wage , which have be one of the most successful policy in the history of this country — and even some conservative claim credit or support the measure as a policy innovation . there be no doubt about the burden on the hospitality sector , because if the living wage go up for people employ in it , that be a business cost . we have to acknowledge that . what those business fundamentally need be customer who have some spending power to use their disposable income in those place . the rise be not without benefit , but I recognise that it be painful . the future for this country , however , can not be as a low - wage , low - productivity economy that do not give people the living standard they want . I have be on television many time talk about the stagnant wage of the last Government . I want wage to be high . the doubling of the employment allowance in the Budget recognise the burden on those type of business , which can now employ up to four people on the living wage without any national insurance liability at all . we have to have a system that accommodate those burden , but fundamentally this Government be in favour of high wage , and we be not go to pull away from that in any measure . the Secretary of State be right to emphasise the importance of a well - fund public sector and well - provision public - sector organisation to economic growth . he will also be aware that question remain about how much additional support public - sector organisation will receive to cover the additional cost of employer national insurance contribution . do the Secretary of State expect or anticipate those employer to be compensate in full for those additional cost ? the hon . Gentleman raise a legitimate point that be considerably outside the remit of the Department for Business and Trade . he be right to put that issue on the record . there will be opportunity for clarity in that space . I understand why , for his constituent , he will want to ask that question in the Budget debate . as member ’ intervention have show , the Budget be not just about a set of policy that will be to the advantage of large business ; they will also be important to our small start - up and small and medium - sized enterprise , as well as for our old , big family firm . we have commit to hardwire the view of small business into everything we do , and we have already start to do that . that be why in September , together with the Federation of Small Businesses , we announce robust measure to tackle late payment with a new fair payment code and tough , new rule on company report . at the same time , we be reform the British Business Bank to free up precious capital for sme to expand , to create new job , and to take idea from design to development . the Chancellor ' s Budget give the green light to my Department to invest over £ 1 billion over the next two year so that the British Business Bank can widen access to finance for small business across the country . that include over £ 250 million each year for small business loan programme , like our start - up loan and the growth guarantee scheme . as hon . member will know and have ask about during the debate , while we be raise national insurance contribution , we have mitigate the impact for small business by double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 . that mean 1 million small business will either be pay the same or less in national insurance contribution than they do now . that be why the Federation of Small Businesses have say that the " Budget show a clear direction in business policy now for the whole of this Parliament to target support at small business … prioritise everyday entrepreneur work in local community in all part of the country . " through this new support for sme , the stability afford by our new industrial strategy and the resetting of our trade relation , we be show unequivocally that the UK support business , want to partner with business and be open for business . that pro - worker , pro - business approach be already have a significant impact . last month , hundred of the world ' s big firm and investor , from Blackstone to the BW Group , Haleon to holtec , line up at our international investment summit to back Britain and back this Government ' s growth mission . that summit result in £ 63 billion of private investment commitment , more than double the amount secure by the previous Government last year — and in just 100 day . it will see billion of pound flow into our tech , digital , manufacturing and life science sector , spur growth in all four nation of the United Kingdom and create almost 38 , 000 new job in the process . we see something else at that business and international investment summit : a ringing endorsement of this Government ' s restoration of stability for the UK economy . IFM investor say that it be " very encourage by the new government ' s commitment to a long - term pro - investment mindset . " Ø rste , a global leader in green energy , state that the main reason it be invest more in the UK be because of our green energy target . it recognise we as " a government who want work with business to enable the investment require . " M & G go one step far . it say : " the UK have a clear national mission to drive economic growth and back wealth creation across every region of the country . " it welcome our effort to " put the UK back on the investor map , showcase market opportunity and reinforce how business and government can work in partnership . " let there be no doubt , despite the dust the opposition be try to kick up , this be a Budget with stability at its core , which set a course for growth and rebuild Britain . the former Prime Minister ' s response baulk at the wave of new investment this Budget usher , but he could not be more wrong . while we be restore economic stability and go for growth , we be keep debt on a downward path . indeed , on the back of the Budget , the IMF have say that it support the reduction in the deficit over the medium term , include by sustainably raise revenue . it recognise what we on the Government Benches know to be true — the principal way to drive economic growth be to invest , invest and invest . may I remind the opposition that we have try their way ? all that do be stagnate wage , stifle growth and put the public finance into a £ 22 billion black hole , with nothing to show for it . we can not cut our way out of a hole ; we need investment to lift the economy up . have endure the last Government lurch from crisis to crisis , the british people vote in July overwhelmingly for change . they vote for a government that would set Budgets to serve their long - term interest , not serve the news cycle or election cycle . they vote for stability , for growth and to fix the foundation . that be exactly what this budget deliver , and I commend it to the House . rise — before I call the next speaker , I wish to make a short and hopefully helpful statement . it be about the way in which member be call to speak in debate . member who wish to catch my eye , or indeed the eye of Mr Speaker himself or any of the other Deputy Speakers , should write to Mr Speaker in advance . those who have not write in may still be call , but priority will be give to those who have apply in writing in advance . member who have apply to speak , but no long wish to do so , should notify the Speaker ' s Office as soon as possible . once you have write in to request to speak , you should turn up in the Chamber for the start of the debate and for all contribution from the Front Bench . you should be present in the Chamber for most of the debate . if you be not able to be here because of other commitment , then you should withdraw your application to speak . selection of speaker in debate be at the discretion of the Chair . the Chair , however , can not predict precisely when a member might expect to speak . when a very large number of member have put in to speak , as we have see over the course of the entire Budget debate , it may not be possible to get you all in , even with the use of time limit . if for any reason you need to be briefly absent from the Chamber during the debate in which you be down to speak , you should notify the Chair , but a prolonged absence may result in your name be remove from the list . may I ask Members not to crowd the Chair , please , to make request about when they be likely to be call ? please go through your whip . it be very distracting and difficult for the Chair , particularly if there be a large number of intervention and a large number of member try to speak to I . please go through your Whip , who will be able to handle those request appropriately . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I start by congratulate our US ally on the election of their 47th president ? when it come to business and trade , America be our most important partner . as our economy be so interlinked , nearly 1 . 5 million Brits work for american company , and more than 1 . 2 million Americans work for british company . that trade relationship be worth £ 280 billion a year , and the amount invest in each other ' s economy have now surpass £ 1 trillion . the Government may be right to say that there be much to rebuild in Britain today , but what this Budget do , combine with the Government ' s nationalisation of railway , Employment Rights Bill , and great British Energy , be to take we far away from that goal , with high taxis , more regulation , big government and a small wealth - produce part of the economy . it be a Budget for prejudice rather than for progress . while Labour member will praise the Budget for its fine measure and the socialist purity of its design , their constituent can see that , when it come to growth , the Budget emperor have no clothe . the Office for Budget Responsibility strip it back to its stark , naked flesh . it say that Budget policy temporarily boost output in the near term , but leave GDP largely unchanged in five year . if growth be their central mission , the Government have already fail . in the harsh light of day , the Secretary of State ' s colleague be start to realise that the Budget be not such an appealing sell . as be report on Sunday , Labour Back Benchers have say that the Chancellor ' s Budget be impossible to sell to horrified constituent — they have be read their email again . one colleague of the Secretary of State for Business and Trade tell the Daily Telegraph , " it have be receive very badly indeed within the Labour party " . there be a stark contrast between what the OBR be say and what those on the Government Front Bench be claim . the chance be that it will not be a growth budget , as be claim . all the evidence be that it will have no more growth by the end of it , and it will certainly be pay for by high effective taxis on work people . the Secretary of State ' s colleague be right , and no wonder . the private sector experience of the Cabinet could barely fill a beer glass , let alone a boardroom . conservative Members know that it be business that create job and the prosperity to pay for our public service . business be the builder , and there be no rebuilding without they . that be something that Labour Members simply do not understand . Britain ' s business need a Government who have their back , not one that drag they down . under the previous Government , life expectancy plateaue , and the number of people live with long - term ill health increase . be that good for business ? the ability to continue to invest in our public service , and the sterling work do by the predecessor Government on level up every part of the United Kingdom — [ interruption . ] government member do not like it , but that work rely fundamentally on private enterprise , which pay the taxis that fund the prosperity and the infrastructure that this country need . I be afraid that the hon . Gentleman be merely show once again his party ' s deficient understanding of how a modern economy work — it be market , not government , that drive up prosperity — and how free trade have improve human health . do the shadow Secretary of State think that the Conservative - design and implement Brexit be good for market , good for business , and good for growth ? well , we will talk a little later about stability . if colleague do not have maiden speech to make , I will be very happy to talk at great length about the many benefit of Brexit and the important ability for a country to make its own law and deliver benefit for the economy . let I make some progress . the Secretary of State have talk much about infrastructure , and , indeed , that be partly the subject of today ' s debate . although create infrastructure be a noble goal , important to all the constituent who send we here , word , I be afraid , be cheap , and the action of his party somewhat undermine his position . his party vote in the other place against measure to allow 100 , 000 home to be build , and his Labour Mayor of London fail to build to such an extent that the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government now propose lower his target . this Labour Budget have pull up the housing ladder for so many , by increase the burden of stamp duty for first - time buyer . currently , an estimate 80 % of first - time buyer pay no stamp duty , but from April 2025 , that could fall to only half . rise — I will happily give way to the hon . Lady , particularly if she can tell I how this Budget will help deliver for first - time buyer . do the shadow Secretary of State agree that this Labour Government will help renter by ban no - fault eviction ? I be party to the debate in which my right hon . friend the Leader of the opposition talk about the unintended consequence of pile burden upon burden on the rental market — in a well - mean way , I accept . we have only to look north of the border , where similar measure be introduce , to see their devastating effect on the rental market , and the shocking increase in rent as a result of a Government try to over - regulate a sector . laughably , while the Government talk about investment , in their first 100 day , they cancel the restore your railway programme — clearly , with some project be honourable exception — which would have make it easy for constituent to get to work sustainably . they have also cancel road scheme , include the a303 scheme and — I declare an interest — the A27 Arundel bypass in my constituency . it be not the first time that a Labour Government have cancel that bypass . the Government talk a great deal about the future of this country , the technology and their modern industrial strategy , but should not new innovative technology , such as artificial intelligence and supercomputing , be at the heart of that ? rise — I will happily give way to the Secretary of State if he want to explain why he no long deem it important to invest in these crucial part of the economy . let we reflect on where we be today — the first day of the constructive Opposition . the new Leader of the conservative party stand at the Dispatch Box two hour ago and call for both tax cut and massive public spending on defence . how be you go to pay for project that you promise but never deliver , and that you know you could never pay for ? order . the Secretary of State know well than to say " you " . we would have get a well answer from ChatGPT . the reality be that the Budget not only increase taxis in the outyear by £ 40 billion a year but increase borrowing by £ 140 billion over the course of the plan — yet despite that largesse , there be no room to fulfil the mandate of british researcher and continue to invest in the supercomputer and infrastructure that they need . a Business Secretary in the last Government write an industrial strategy , but it be quickly bin . under the Conservatives ' new leadership , what be their position on industrial strategy , because we go without one for many year ? forgive I if the hon . Member have be here for more than 120 day , but I fully support the sector , and the industrial strategy that the Government have articulate for they , because the strategy continue on from , and be identical to , those of the previous Government . not for the first time , we see what I call name - plate from this Government . a british business bank — the UK Infrastructure Bank — be be re - name - plate as a national wealth fund . the modern industrial strategy take the exist science , technology and innovation framework , our plan for financial service and our creative industry strategy and re - name - plate they under a different banner . that be welcome . there be nothing quite as flattering as plagiarism , and I be delighted that those really important sector of the economy will benefit from a degree of continuity . the Budget have be absolutely crush for business . if the Secretary of State be honest , he will know that from his engagement . the only thing that it have deliver to business across the country be more burden . accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , the increase in national insurance contribution amount to a £ 25 billion tax on business . the reduction of the national insurance threshold by over £ 4 , 000 will keep small and medium - sized business up at night . let we not equivocate : the measure in the Budget amount , in the word of the Chancellor herself , to a " job tax " . from industry leader to shop owner , those in the retail , hospitality and leisure industry in particular will think back to what they hear during the election campaign . I know that my hon . friend follow these thing closely . accord to the OBR , the £ 26 billion job tax bombshell actually net only £ 16 billion because of reduced investment and other fund , and three quarter of the £ 26 billion fall on worker ’ wage . only this socialist Government could be so incompetent as to reduce wage by more than they will take from a tax that they have introduce . I have not hear that observation yet in the debate , but I share it with my hon . friend . my right hon . friend be exactly right . we have hear talk from Labour Members of a circular economy . well , this be entirely circular . as the OBR observe , the measure do not add to growth , and as my right hon . Friend mention , three quarter of the burden will fall on the low - pay . the Labour party have a distinguished record on these matter , and if Labour member be serious and thoughtful about this , they will interrogate their Front - Benchers in much great depth , because the measure will result in lower - pay , poor job — and it will be much hard for people to get on the job ladder in the first place . there be an enormous number of unanswered question . the impact on GPs be uncoste . and on charity . indeed , there will be an impact on charity and the third sector — those who care for we at the most difficult point in life . on Friday , I meet representative from a charity in my constituency that care for those with dementia . its income be fix , its need be ever present , and as a result of this Labour Budget , it simply do not know how it will balance its book . be the reality not that the Labour Government also do not know how they will balance the book ? I ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care in a write parliamentary question how much the rise in employer national insurance contribution will cost the Department . the Government say that they do not know . either the Government do not know but should know , or they do know and should say . the Budget also include the high - ever increase in capital gain tax , and a reduction in business property relief . just as with the family farm tax , that reduction be an attack on the family - own business that dominate our high street and industrial park . the incentive to take risk , and to create and grow a family business with the objective of pass it on , will be fundamentally undermine . some 75 % of UK business be family run , and in aggregate they employ 50 % of all worker in the economy . we be talk about decade of hard work , dedicate to build a legacy , and people create an insurance policy for their passing . the so - call " loophole " in inheritance tax that Government Front - Benchers talk about be legitimate tax policy , introduce by a Labour Government in 1976 to ensure that business be not break up and devastate on the death of an owner , to the detriment of the remain employee , worker , supplier , customer , the wide economy , and even the Treasury , which would lose future tax take . this measure could be devastating for our community and our high street up and down the country . it be not just conservative Members who be sound the alarm , though we may be do it with a great degree of passion . the chief executive officer of ukhospitality say that the increase in national insurance will undermine business operate at the margin and " be a brake on growth " . Family Business UK , which represent family - own enterprise , have say that the Budget " remove entirely any incentive for start or run a family business . " the hon . Gentleman will recall that in the 2022 spring Budget , the conservative party increase national insurance for employer by 1 . 25 % , and he support that . can he explain why he be in favour of it then but oppose it now , even though we have introduce increase employment allowance that counteract the change ? I be pretty sure that at the time , the now Chancellor describe the increase as a " job tax " , and that be exactly what this be . what we be see be not a need to balance the nation ' s book on the back of a global supply chain squeeze , high energy cost due to the war in Ukraine and the aftermath of covid , but a Government come in with premeditate plan that they do not share with the british people , and set the big - ever tax raid Budget in british history . that be an enormous difference , and business understand it ; it can see through this Government . one of the UK ' s lead hospitality entrepreneur be Luke Johnson , who run Gail ' s , which I believe some of my liberal Democrat colleague be rather keen on — they be the party of Gail ' s . he say : " it be heartbreake that Britain ' s proud record of innovation , flexibility and business success be be throw away thank to that old knee - jerk Labour instinct of tax success . " I agree . it be clear that the hon . Gentleman disagree with the way in which the Budget raise revenue . do he oppose the £ 22 billion investment in the NHS , the investment in special educational need and disability education , or the increase in the school budget ? I hope that the hon . Gentleman have a long and successful career in this House , but he will not have very long to wait ; if he be concerned about a lack of investment in the NHS , I ask he to sit down with the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and ask exactly what the rate of growth will be for nhs spending and departmental spending in the year ' 26 - 27 and ' 27 - 28 . then perhaps he could come back and tell I what he think about that level of spending growth . the Government talk of stabilise the economy — we have hear a lot about that — but this be not a Budget for stability ; it be anything but . let I educate Labour colleague . there be nothing stable about lower the rate of economic growth . all that do be create a more fragile and susceptible economy . there be nothing sustainable about a Government change the fiscal rule after say that they would not . even with the potentially unsustainable level of departmental spend , there be nothing stable in a Government have a razor - thin level of headroom that the OBR quantifie at only £ 10 billion — just one third of the level that the Chancellor ' s predecessor set — to ensure that they remain within the fiscal rule , which they have just make up , by the way . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will happily give way to the hon . Lady if she want to talk about headroom in the fiscal rule , and the lack thereof . the hon . Gentleman be talk about stability , but do he recognise the irony in his party — the party of Liz Truss — lecture the Government about stability ? the — [ interruption . ] I be try to find something relevant to say to the hon . Lady . there be a — [ interruption . ] rise — behind you ! I will happily give way in a minute . at least the Budget that the hon . Lady talk about be an attempt to do two thing . first , it seek to shield household in this country from go into a cold winter with an increase in energy bill — her Labour colleague may wish to contemplate what they have do to 8 million pensioner through the reduction of the winter fuel allowance . secondly , it be a Budget for growth . this Budget , as we have observe — [ interruption . ] well , some people be make interesting comment , but the direction in this Budget be to low , rather than increase , growth . do my hon . friend agree that , in the reaction to the Budget , the gilt market be in a far bad position than it be follow the mini - Budget ? Labour Members might want to do some research into the impact of their own Budget . well , my — [ interruption . ] order . I will hear the shadow Secretary of State . my hon . friend make exactly the right point . the Government be enormously lucky , give the spike in gilt yield over the precede week and subsequent to the Budget , that the previous Government deal with the aftermath of the financial regulatory failure in respect of liability - drive investment . we deal with that , and as a result we have a more stable financial system , which have be able , so far , to survive what the Government have do . in evidence take by the Treasury Committee yesterday , Richard Hughes explain , and I shall say this slowly , that an increase to interest rate of just 0 . 3 % — one third of 1 % — would wipe out all the headroom . that be in the OBR ' s economic and fiscal outlook , and be no doubt why the OBR give the Government only a 54 % chance of hit their target . that be barely well than the odd on a coin toss . so there we have it . the Government spend month talk up their credential on enterprise . they look business owner in the eye and tell they that they would have their back and support they , but 120 day later they go back on their promise — a prawn cocktail offensive with a nasty dose of indigestion . they have crush confidence and destroy investment . they have check any incentive for growth . they have leave thousand of enterprise striver wonder when the day will come when the shutter on their shop be not lift any more . I dare the Secretary of State to stand before the 4 . 8 million family business owner and tell they that this be a Budget that will work for they . risk taker and wealth creator deserve a Government who have their back , invest in infrastructure and do not embolden the inefficiency of the public sector . be in no doubt : while the Government keep growth , innovation and entrepreneur in their crosshair , the Conservatives will always be on the side of business . I be delighted to speak about the first Labour Budget in 14 year . for my constituent , the last fourteen year have be difficult . too often , they feel that the then Government be not on their side . that Government do not hear that austerity leave we not only with deteriorate public service but more fragile community . they do not reform the planning system , which would have alleviate the housing crisis and stop the 20 % to 30 % rent increase that leave many of my constituent face eviction during a cost of living crisis . they do not take the difficult decision to protect the economy , and leave our new Government with a black hole to fill . we hear loud and clear in July that government must be different . this Budget offer that . we have a rise to the national living wage and to the rate for under - 21 , which will make work pay whatever someone ' s age . funding of over £ 25 billion for the NHS over the next two year will deliver more doctor and ten of thousand of extra appointment , help hospital such as St Thomas ' , just over the river in my constituency . as the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , I have hear a lot from our local authority , which have bear the brunt of the failure to tackle the housing crisis . council have be forget , with devastating consequence for community . yesterday , at our first public Committee meeting , we hear from homelessness organisation and local authority representative on the state of temporary accommodation . council be have to spend unsustainable amount to fill gap in that area , which be drive they to near bankruptcy . in London alone , 70 % of local authority housing budget be be absorb by temporary accommodation . that mean less money for repair and maintenance of housing stock , which leave tenant feel the increase in the crisis . the human impact be even more shocking . as I speak , over 150 , 000 child be in temporary accommodation across England . in the last five year , 55 child have die in circumstance link to temporary accommodation ; 42 of they be under the age of one . that should shock and shame we . those death be not coincidental . yesterday , the Committee hear about family live in one room . that can stunt a child ' s growth because they be not able to do the thing they should , such as crawl . we hear about how a child ' s ability to form social attachment with peer can be affect by the lack of consistency cause by constant moving . we hear about how parent be often plunge into mental health crisis because of the stress of raise a family in those condition , which far isolate the child . the Government can and must do well . I welcome the step in this Budget to supplement the affordable housing programme , increase homelessness spending and scale back right to buy to boost our social housing stock , but they must be first step . we need far significant change in the upcoming funding settlement , and the next Budget must truly start to address that crisis . I be particularly worried about the freeze to local housing allowance rate , because it be a lifeline for people who be struggle . that be cover by the Department for Work and Pensions , but the measure could have a significant impact on attempt to tackle the homelessness crisis , so it must be address in upcoming statement . the deep harm cause by the last 14 year can not and will not be fix overnight . the Budget be the first in my five year in this House that give we a glimmer of hope and a road map for fix our break public service . I congratulate the Chancellor and her team on get on with the job so quickly , but I will be a voice for the thousand of family who continue to fall through the crack with no safety net beneath they . they can not afford to wait any long for help — they need it now . I urge the Government to give attention to people in crisis , such as those in temporary accommodation . we can not , as a Labour Government , risk fail a generation of young people . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , who have give another customarily powerful speech and remind we of the injustice face those who fall between the crack . we live in an uncertain and unstable world , and the US election result make it more so . as we debate how to rebuild our great country after the mess leave by the Conservatives , many of we will have a sense of apprehension today about what the presidential result mean for the US — include woman and minority group — as well as for the UK , Europe and the world . family across the UK will also be worry about the damage that President Trump and his Administration may do to our economy and our national security , give his record of start trade war , undermine NATO and embolden tyrant such as Putin . none the less , that may well be the context within which we must rebuild Britain . we Liberal Democrats believe that rebuild Britain start with rebuild our NHS and social care . never before have I hear so much desperation as at the last general election . the legacy of the last Government be to leave people say that they could not see a gp or a dentist , and be wait month for mental health assessment or special educational need document . People be ask I on the doorstep whether maybe everything be so broken that it could not be fix at all , but we Liberal Democrats know that health and social care must be fix hand in hand . we welcome the Government ' s investment in the NHS , but they can not remain silent on social care — they can not dismiss it as a second - term issue . business know that people ' s productivity plummet when they have to pick up the piece of a broken social care system . the hon . Lady make absolutely the right point about the NHS and its interdependence with social care , but the Government have do more than be silent on social care : through the minimum wage and the nic , they have impose £ 2 . 5 billion of additional cost on social care while give just £ 600 million to local authority . they be take an already difficult situation and make it rather bad . I thank the right hon . gentleman for make that point . he may remember that at Deputy Prime Minister ' s question two week ago , I raise precisely that point with the Deputy Prime Minister and advise the Government that if they go ahead with the rise in national insurance contribution , it would affect social care . the right hon . Gentleman will , however , remember that it be the conservative Prime Minister Boris Johnson who stand on the step of Downing Street in 2019 and promise to reform social care " once and for all " , but clearly fail to do so . two manage partner from GP practice in my constituency have write to I about the significant impact of the increase in employer NI contribution , which they say will directly undermine access and patient care . they will also have a huge impact on the brilliant work of Princess Alice hospice in my constituency , which be already hugely stretch — it will cost that hospice £ 400 , 000 a year . do my hon . friend agree that that hospice and those GP practice should be exempt ? I thank my hon . friend for that excellent intervention . I absolutely agree that they should be exempt ; I think the rise in national insurance contribution be the wrong thing to do , full stop , but if it be go to go ahead , there must be exemption . in my own area , for example , one local hospice in Hertfordshire will see its national insurance contribution go up by £ 150 , 000 . its warning be very clear : that if this rise go ahead , bed will have to close . People must see opportunity in enterprise as well , but the rise in national insurance contribution will hit small business hard , especially those on the high street . the success of our high street really matter , not just for growth but for confidence : for so many people , the high street be the most visual and visceral mark of whether or not the economy be thrive . I would be grateful if the Minister could indicate later today whether the Government intend to bring forward a high street strategy , and if so , when we might see it . I have be inundate with message from small business on my high street in St Albans . here be just some of the quote : one business say that " the reality of last week ' s budget will mean no more investment and no further recruitment as be plan and in all likelihood redundancy . " another small business say : " I provide employment locally , raise money for local charity and have create a much - love addition to our town centre … I be worried about how much long I can go on . " one business say that it " would be impact mainly with our business rate increase and my plea be that that can ' t happen . the high street challenge be hard enough as they be " without have to face " an uncertain Christmas trading period . " other colleague have mention the impact on medical charity , hospice and GPs . in Hertfordshire , the local medical committee say : " since 2014 we have see 56 practice close or merge across Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire , represent 35 % of the 216 practice that exist back in 2014 . " gp practice need certainty as to whether any of these cost will be pass on to they at a time when they be already feel the squeeze . I can guess what the Minister may say : he may encourage member on the Opposition Benches to indicate how we would raise taxis instead . in the spirit of constructive opposition , we Liberal Democrats urge the Government to think again , because we believe the burden of fix our public service should fall on the shoulder of the big bank , the gambling company and the big tech company , not the small business that be the beat heart of our community . suppress small business be not the route to growth . the business rate reform in the Budget not only fall short of what we need , but actually make thing bad in the short term . the last Conservative Government promise to reform the business rate system , but fail to do so . the current system penalise brick - and - mortar retailer , while out - of - town retailer manage to get off almost scot - free . pub , high street shop and the rest of the hospitality sector have be hit really hard , with the discount be reduce from 75 % to 40 % . that be go to have a major impact . St Albans be renowned for its pub — as many of the more long - establish member will remember , I talk about the pub in St Albans on many occasion . we have more pub per square mile than anywhere else in the UK , but those pub will now face additional business rate bill of between £ 5 , 000 and £ 35 , 000 . some fear that this could push they over the edge . over the past few day , much have be say about food security as well . we Liberal Democrats agree that the loophole that be be exploit by big corporation that buy up swathe of our land must be close , but we be concerned that the Government ' s approach be rather crude — that as they try to close those loophole , some family farm will be collateral damage . again in the spirit of constructive opposition , I encourage the Government to look again at our proposal for a proper family farming test , as be use in some other country . finally , I will say a word or two about investment . we Liberal Democrats believe that the Government have do the right thing in change the fiscal rule , and in principle , we believe in the importance of borrow for productive investment . however — once again , I say this in the spirit of constructive opposition — I think the Government have put all of their growth egg in the building back basket . I understand why they may be do that . however , give the Trump presidency and the prospect of potential tariff and trade war that could drive up the price of product such as semiconductor and construction material , there be a very real risk that the investment that the Government make will not reap the reward that we all hope for — through change in the global climate , rather than any fault of their own . we need a resilient economy , so I praise the Government for investing , but urge they to look at the question of resilience . at this time , it be even more important that we look to small business and high street for growth , so I urge the Government to think again and unleash the power of our high street and small business , rather than hamper they . I call Irene Campbell to make her maiden speech . many thank , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to give my maiden speech in such an important debate . it be great to see a budget deliver by a female Chancellor , the first one ever in this Parliament , and a Budget deliver the large funding settlement for Scotland in the history of devolution . I be delighted to be here today as the Member of Parliament for North Ayrshire and Arran , my home constituency , and I be honour that people put their faith in I and vote for I to be their MP . I thank my family and friend for their support , which be greatly appreciated . I pay my respect to my predecessor Patricia Gibson for her work in the constituency over the past nine year . like I , she care about the community we serve , and I wish she well . I also pay my respect to her staff for their hard work . staff often go unrecognised , but they play a vital part in deliver for our community . I first get interested in politic at a very young age . one of our neighbour , David Lambie , be the hon . member for Central Ayrshire from 1970 until 1983 and be very active in the area . that be my introduction to politic and to this place . I be fascinate by what be go on and how it all work . I remember be in the Gallery to see Prime Minister ' s question in the 1980 ; I still can not quite believe that I be now here sit on the green Benches . North Ayrshire and Arran be a mix of town — many of they post - industrial — village , and rural and island community . it have the good of both the countryside and the seaside , with two beautiful island , but I will say more about that later . I have live in the constituency for most of my life , although I start my work life in London in the 1980 . job be scarce at that time in North Ayrshire and many other part of Britain . some may remember that unemployment be very high and to get a job people move to city . I arrive in London an enthusiastic young punk and not only get a job that I love , but get to see a lot of band , go to great art exhibition , make some lifetime friend and generally have a great time , as most young people do . I would not have expect that year later I would be back in London where I start my career — I be no long a punk , as you can see , but hopefully I still have the attitude . come back to my constituency , I must mention a very famous resident , Alfred Nobel . in the 1860s he identify a site in the town of Stevenston on the Ardeer peninsula to build his explosive factory . at one time it be the large explosive factory in the world and in its heyday it employ around 15 , 000 people , mainly local . Nobel live locally during the start of the project , and my great - grandmother Clara come over from Sweden to work for the Nobel family . she never leave Stevenston , as she meet my great - grandfather and stay , so I be obviously very grateful . North Ayrshire and Arran be a diverse constituency with the town of Kilwinning , Ardrossan , Saltcoats and Stevenston make up a post - industrial landscape along with the Garnock valley , comprise the town of Dalry , Beith , Kilbirnie , Glengarnock and the village of Gateside and Barmill . the famous Glengarnock steelwork open in the 1840 and operate until the 1970 . the north coast be make up of small , pretty coastal town , with the village of Seamill , West Kilbride , which be often refer to as a craft town , Portencross , Fairlie , Largs and Skelmorlie , and of course we have the wonderful and beautiful island of Arran and Cumbrae . to give a little bit of history , North Ayrshire and Arran have many ancient castle and monument , from the medieval abbey in Kilwinning to castle in Ardrossan , Portencross , Glengarnock , Kersland , Dalry and many more , and the ancient Machrie Moor stand stone on Arran . the town of Largs be famous for the viking battle in 1263 and host an annual viking festival . these historical site attract many visitor , and tourism be important to our local community , particularly our island community . I must mention some famous resident , past and president — [ interruption . ] forgive I — I mean to say " present " . that be a freudian slip on 6 November ! Betsy Miller from Saltcoats be the first woman to be register as the master of a ship and be apparently mention in this House during a debate on the provision of the Merchant Shipping Act 1834 . Henry Faulds from Beith , a scottish doctor and scientist , be note for the development of fingerprinting . move on to the present day , from Saltcoats we have Steve Clarke , the Scotland football manager , and Colin Hay , singer and musician from the australian band Men at Work — who incidentally do not come from " a land down under " , but from Saltcoats . we have classical violinist Nicola Benedetti from West Kilbride , olympic athlete Jemma Reekie from Beith and musician and songwriter Gallagher and Lyle from Largs . there be many community organisation and project work hard in the constituency , include North Ayrshire Women ' s aid , where I serve on the board for many year and be chair . the service provide crucial support for woman and child . there be also man ' s shed throughout the constituency , as I think there be throughout the whole UK , do great work promote mental health and general wellbeing . the 1st Alliance Credit Union in Kilwinning ensure that local people can save and access affordable loan . in Kilbirnie there be the Radio City Association , work hard to bring community energy and the associated benefit . we also have the award - win SeaSalt Streets group in Saltcoats , help to improve the town centre , and I must pay tribute to the Save Ardrossan Harbour group , fight hard to save the Ardrossan to Brodick ferry route , which have be in existence for around 190 year . there be many more I could mention . finally , I come to my home town of Saltcoats , where I have live for most of my life . saltcoat be a small seaside town on the Firth of Clyde . it be a great place to grow up , with plenty for child to do . one feature that I must mention be the great outdoor swimming pool , build in the 1930 , which have a beautiful art deco pavilion that would not have be out of place on the C ô te d ' Azur — although it certainly do not have its weather . the pool welcome many visitor from Glasgow and beyond and be very busy all through the summer , despite the fact that it be freeze cold and sometimes people would be swim next to a jellyfish or an eel — that be all part of the experience . I learn to swim in the pool at a young age and have very fond memory of it . sadly , the beautiful art deco pavilion be demolish in the 1980 , but the swimming pool remain . during covid , I start a campaign with other local enthusiast to revive and reopen the pool . we call ourselves the Splash group and we be link with the UK Future Lidos group , which comprise other lido enthusiast aim to build lido or to reopen exist one throughout the UK and Ireland . outdoor swimming have never be so popular and now be definitely the time to do it . it be good for both physical and mental health and wellbeing , and the pool would offer a safe outdoor space for swimmer . the Splash group have be work with London architect Chris Romer - Lee and we have a visionary 21st - century design for our pool . it would be a fantastic asset for Saltcoats and the wide North Ayrshire community . I have give the House a tour of my constituency . I be in this place to serve my community and my aim during this Parliament be to bring improvement and investment and to work hard to make positive change to the life of people in North Ayrshire and Arran . I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) on his role as shadow Secretary of State . I know what a distinguished career he have have in business and how eminently qualified he be for this role . I also enjoy listen to the Secretary of State ; I know he be a very intelligent man and I know by reputation what a decent man he be , but while I be sit in the Chamber I look up on Wikipedia what his business experience be and what qualify he for his role . I be sorry to report that he have about as much business experience as I do , which be precisely none . I spend my career before my election work in Parliament and in the charity sector — you could mistake I for a Labour MP , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be almost indistinguishable from they and easily mistaken for one . however , I will do my good to disabuse they of that false impression by say what a very shameful thing it be that the Labour party allow the public to be so mislead in the run - up to the last election . Labour promise not to raise taxis , not to increase borrowing or to change the borrowing rule and certainly not to impose inheritance tax on family farm . all those thing they have do in this Budget , and it be a shameful thing . leave aside whether these measure be good or bad for the country , leave aside the erroneous idea that suddenly Labour understand the public finance after they get into government , when they do not understand they before — even though before the party get into government it say it know exactly what be in the public finance , and of course it do , because that be what the OBR enable — the fact be that Labour understandably stress in the run - up to the election that they be stand on a platform of probity , integrity and trust . those be the word use repeatedly in their election campaign , and the public respond to that . in so far as it be possible to say that Labour win public support at the election — of course it do not really ; we just lose it — it be on the ground that — [ interruption . ] Labour member ask why we lose it . we lose it because the public could not trust we and they do not think we have integrity . I know that . I be not stupid . we understand what the public thought and I be not go to disabuse they , but Labour promise to be different , and in this budget they have absolutely break their promise on integrity and trust . this be a day of shame for the party after what they have do with this Budget . in a less partisan spirit , there be much to critique about the economy that the Labour party inherit when it come into government . I recognise that there be thing wrong with our economy and deep structural problem . they go back decade — a lot long than 14 year . in so far as it be possible to critique the conservative party for failure , those happen for very understandable reason — not least because of the deficit and the broken economy that we have inherit 14 year previously , as well as other event that take place during our time in power . our failure be that we do not fix those fundamental structural problem with the economy that we inherit . those problem be to do with a high - tax , high - borrow economy that have high level of public debt cause by high welfare , high and preventable health spending , high rate of private debt , low productivity and low wage . those be the underlie structural reality of the british economy go back decade ; they be the reality of this century so far . it be therefore right that the Chancellor talk often about fix the foundation . I welcome that because it be absolutely the right framework within which to approach the challenge that the new Government face on the economy . the problem be that the Government be lean into the broken model that we have . they be far damage the foundation of our economy , which need to be fix , by pursue more borrowing , more tax and spend and , as my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs say from the Front Bench a little while ago , a plan that will not lead to great growth in the economy over this Parliament , with only minuscule improvement if the forecast be correct . nevertheless , in the spirit of cross - party consensus , let I hope that we can fix the foundation of the economy , because we do need to fix they . what be those foundation ? classically understand , the foundation of prosperity — the foundation of any economy — be land , labour and capital . let I look at each briefly in turn . the fundamental reality of our land economy be the planning system . work do in the think - tank world by Southwood , Hughes and Bowman call " Foundations " — that be absolutely the right framing — show that it be impossible to build thing in this country , to build they quickly and to build they in the right place . yes , we need new housing urgently , and I recognise and applaud the Government ' s commitment on that , but their approach be entirely wrong . they propose to build house where they be not need and not want — on our green field — instead of where they be urgently need and very much want , which be in our city . what we need all across the country , include in rural area such as the one I represent in east Wiltshire , be more business space . we need space for industrial use , and we need office space . we urgently need to enable our entrepreneur to create business and to grow they in the place where they want to do that . I be very conscious of the challenge we have in Wiltshire with the lack of affordable and available land for business . like other , I should also quickly mention the absolute crime of propose to tax family farm and to insist that farmer sell up when farm be pass from one generation to the next . that be another flagrant abuse of trust by this Government . the second foundation be the labour market . I have not hear the Government address this so far in the Budget or in this Budget debate , but the crucial challenge for our economy be that it be so dependent on high rate of low - skilled migration , which depress wage , increase welfare and inhibit productivity — crucially , because it disincentivise employer from invest in people , in machinery or in technology that boost growth and productivity . we have to cap migration and shift spending into the skill economy and into our own people to support they to gain the skill they need in order to do the job that need do . the third foundation be capital itself . we have hear a lot from Ministers about the need for investment , but what they mean be public investment and public spending . what be fundamentally need be private investment , but we hear nothing about that and do not see much sign of it . we have a break capital market . again , I recognise that a lot of this go back many year — to well before this government — but it be difficult for business to find the capital they need to start and , crucially , to scale . all the incentive be towards rush to private equity or to an initial public offering and cash out as soon as possible . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) during Prime Minister ' s question early about the failure of the London capital market to direct capital into UK business . that be a perennial challenge with our finance sector , and it need address . I echo the point make by the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , who be absolutely right about the importance of invest in UK resilience . we need money — crucially , private money — to go into small and medium - sized enterprise and the key growth sector that will be need in the turbulent time to come . we need to use the incentive in the tax and regulation system to direct finance towards british business . crucially , we also need to make british business more competitive . that bring I to the national insurance increase . this huge job tax have be impose on the country with no warning and , in fact , in direct breach of promise make by the Labour party . as a business owner who be pleased to see more money in the pocket of not just my team but my customer , can I ask the hon . member whether he agree that the Conservatives be very good with their own money , but absolutely appalling with the country ' s finance ? I be delighted to hear that there be , in fact , a businessman on the Labour Benches ; that be tremendous , and I hope that he and his business prosper under the government that he be support . the fact be that the OBR itself say in its commentary on the Budget that payroll tax rise be " pass through " into low wage . the direct effect be that the Government be tax worker to fund their spending commitment . those spending commitment go partly towards what they call investment capital project , but also towards public service ' run cost . as we have hear today , the bulk of that money will be front - load at the start of this Parliament , in what one would have think be direct contravention of good fiscal management . however , more importantly and more worryingly , as we hear , the effect will be largely circular , because the additional spending will simply be take in tax through the NIC increase . on behalf of my constituent , I would quickly add that the one spending area where I have particular regret be the cutting of the transport budget . the Government talk about increase investment in the public sector , but they have cut the transport budget overall and , particularly to the regret of constituent in Wiltshire , scrap the plan to upgrade the a303 and divert all that horrendous traffic around Stonehenge . I deeply regret that , and I be sorry that we have yet to hear any plan from the Department for Transport or the Treasury to alleviate our chronic traffic problem . let I finish by say how much I regret the miss opportunity that this Budget represent . we need growth and productivity , which , fundamentally , will come only from the private sector . we need to see more saving in the public sector , so that we can fund proper deficit reduction , but we be not go to see that . we also need meaningful tax cut , so that we can get the economy go . one area where we urgently need more spending be defence , which be the one area we really have not hear about . when will we hear about the timetable to get to 2 . 5 % ? rise — order . there will have to be a time limit , but after we have hear all the maiden speech . I call David Williams to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be really pleased to follow the excellent maiden speech by my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) , and I look forward to many more such speech as the afternoon go on . it be an absolute honour to represent Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove , an area that have make I who I be . I be also proud to speak in this incredibly important debate . this government take seriously the need to boost household income and to lift family out of poverty . I be delighted that the increase in the national living wage outline in the Budget will put an extra £ 1 , 400 in the pocket of thousand of worker across Stoke - on - Trent and Kidsgrove . in memory of Sharlotte - Sky Naglis , I would like to thank my predecessor , Jonathan Gullis , who campaign to change the law to allow blood sample to be test without consent where loss of life have occur follow dangerous driving . I say to Sharlotte ' s mum last week , " I will continue to fight for this critical legislation , though I know nothing can make up for the loss of your child . " I will also say thank you to Baroness Anderson , who put the national scandal of holiday hunger firmly on the radar during her time in this House . so many child up and down our country be now feed during school holiday . I do not set out to become an MP . after study at Keele University — one of our two great local university — I work in a local Sure Start centre . I see how mum have be let down by the state , but I also see how , with a hand up from the new Labour Government at the time , they be able to get back on their foot . I then work for the ymca , where we set up training scheme , secure funding to reopen youth club that be close under austerity , and support young people into affordable housing . however , 14 year of Conservative Government leave our service on their knee and level up be a fail promise . we face a 97 % cut in spending on youth service in my constituency alone . our sure Start centre be hollow out . annual household income have fall behind rise living cost . indeed , in some area of my constituency as many as two third of family live in poverty and weekly earning be some £ 100 low than the England average . I put myself forward to be an MP to break this cycle of broken promise . our young people locally should not feel they need to move away for well - pay work . I want our family to live in affordable , decent home , and I want high - quality care for everyone who need it — real investment , high - quality public service , restore hope to our people . my dad once tell I , " People like we don ' t become mps . " while , thankfully , he be wrong , because I be here today , many people still believe that where we be bear will forever dictate our life ' s direction . that be why I be a member of the Labour party , because we believe that everybody , no matter where they be from , should have equal access to opportunity . I be incredibly proud of my background . my mum and my grandad work in our local potbank — H & R Johnson , Richard Tiles and Dunn Bennett and Co . my mum and dad meet in the old Adulte ballroom in Burslem . my weekend as a child be spend at Burslem and Tunstall market , play out in Tunstall park — after mass , of course — and do our weekly shop in the Normid hypermarket in Talke Pits . have work locally for over 20 year , I know how blessed we be to have so many local people , charity , business and faith group that provide vital support to our community . whether it be the Chell Area Family Action Group , Middleport Matters , the Hubb Foundation or excellent community organiser like June Cartwright , Anne Marie and Colin , or Mark Porter , I be so grateful for the contribution they make to our town . our history be one of hard - work people , from the potter and the miner , who power we through the industrial revolution , to the public sector worker who care for we and the business owner who create opportunity for our community . our history be forge by our people , who have contribute enormously to our local economy and the success of our country : Reginald Mitchell , from Butt Lane , the engineer behind the Spitfire , which help lead we to victory in the second world war ; Clarice Cliff , a pioneer potter who take on a male - dominate industry to make a name for herself ; and a . r . wood , our well - know architect , who create some of our most beautiful building include the Burslem school of art and the queen ' s theatre . these building , and our many other historical site , be ready to have new life breathe into they . we need new space for small business and new home for our family , and I want to see our history build our future . in my constituency , we be proud of our past and ambitious for our future , and I know that ambition will be match by our new Labour Government . trace of our proud history can be find in our bottle kiln ; whether Moorcroft Pottery in Cobridge or Moorland Pottery in Burslem , it fill I with pride to see the flame of our history continue to burn in these modern time . and I be part of what we call " the turnover club " , and I have attract some bemused look as I walk around the caf é s in Westminster and lift each plate , bowl and saucer to see where it be craft ; I be pleased to see that so many be make at the Steelite factory in Burslem or at Churchill in Sandyford . I be so proud that my constituency continue to lead the way in ceramics production . finally , I would like to pay tribute to my friend and predecessor , Joan Walley , who represent Stoke - on - Trent North for 37 year . Joan truly embody what it mean to be a good constituency MP . in her maiden speech she speak eloquently about the quality of housing . her fight for improved living standard continue to this day , and I be incredibly proud to be a part of a Labour Government who have deliver their commitment to work people through their first Budget in 14 year . I call Charlotte Cane to make her maiden speech . I want to thank those who elect I as the first MP for the new Ely and East Cambridgeshire constituency , although I follow in the liberal footstep of Clement Freud and other before he . I congratulate the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) on make her first speech to this House ; her constituency sound almost , but not quite , as beautiful as mine . I also congratulate the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) on his first speech . my mum be a member of " the turnover club " and I become an honorary member when I come to this House because I feel I need to check the saucer so that I could report back to she ; so I understand where the hon . Gentleman be come from . Ely and East Cambridgeshire contain part of the old North East Cambridgeshire constituency and most of South East Cambridgeshire . I thank the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) for be so helpful in pass over casework from constituent , and I thank Lucy Frazer KC for represent South East Cambridgeshire , and in particular for support the much - need upgrade to Ely rail junction . I be disappointed to hear nothing about fund for that in the Budget . we all want economic growth for this country , and the Government need to help we fix Ely junction if we be to get freight to and from the port and allow we to have that growth . I be a chartered accountant , so I know that the business case be unanswerable and I urge the Chancellor to put the funding for the Ely junction upgrade in the spring spending review . my constituent have a range of occupation : we have farmer , we have people in horseracing , and we have cut - edge technology . go back to the comment of the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North , I be amazed to be invite to accompany Almath Crucibles to receive the King ' s award for innovation — people have be make crucible for 8 , 000 year , yet it have come up with an innovation , which , as an archaeologist , I find utterly amazing . I be also amazed to look at how they make those crucible in my constituency ; they make they with fantastic material , but they do so in a way that our parent would recognise from the pottery industry . it be stunning . we be also a beautiful constituency , with an amazing natural environment . we have chalk grassland , wetland peat and the River Great Ouse run through it all . over the century , people have add thing : ditch , dyke and lode that help control the water in the fen ; and the Devil ' s dyke , which run from my home village of Reach through to Woodditton , a beautiful , probably late Saxon earthwork and a chalk grassland . watch over all that , we have the " ship of the fen " , which many say be one of the good cathedral in Europe . personally , I think it be the good but I would not claim to be an expert in cathedral . the National Trust be do a lot of work near I with Wicken fen , as it have a vision to enlarge the wetland peat area to protect the biodiversity that depend on it and , as we hear in an early debate , capture the carbon that be within . I be lucky enough to visit recently , and be promise that we might see a kingfisher . we do indeed see that beautiful kingfisher go back and forth across the river . it be fantastic . however , there be some downside to my constituency . it be very expensive to buy or rent a home , which be price out young people and family . the median price of a house in my constituency be 11 time the average salary , and the rental market follow on from that , basically . it be unaffordable for many people . on top of that , a lot of our affordable housing be badly insulate , and people rely on oil for their heating . across my constituency , there be family who can not afford to heat their home . as the Government be rebuild Britain , which I hope that we can do , they should ensure that home be build that be affordable for people to live in — not just home that have an affordable price or rent but that be energy - efficient so that they be cheap to run . we must also ensure that we have the infrastructure and support around those home , whether that be doctor , dentist , school , green space or water . we need to have all those thing . on the subject of dentist , Ely and East Cambridgeshire be a dental desert . I be horrified to say that people can not get on an NHS dental list in my constituency . that have to change . I have meet people who have spend their life saving on dental treatment or people who , for heaven ' s sake , have do it themselves . it be horrendous and we have to address it . my great - grandfather grow up in the workhouse around Stoke - on - Trent . my parent be the first people in their family to go to university , and they always bring I up to believe that I could do anything I want as long as I work hard on it . I first stand for Parliament in 1987 , and mum and dad help I with that campaign . sadly , my dad die a few year ago , but my mum support my election campaign this year , and I know that dad would have be really pleased to see I elect to this House , just as mum be . I now have to correct an error I make on election night . I do not expect to win , so I have not write a victory speech . I remember most of the people I have to thank but , as my husband and my child have repeatedly remind I since , I forget to thank they , so I be delighted to put on record , and in Hansard no less , my thank to my husband , Jon , and my child , David and Kathryn , for their unswerve support and encouragement . this might sound a bit odd , but I also need to thank Fosters mill , which be a 19th - century windmill in Swaffham Prior that be still go strong . its Prior ' s oats fuel my campaign and now give I a breakfast boost each morning to get I through the day . I have to thank my agent Lorna Dupr é for run a wonderful campaign and all my campaign team for deliver leaflet and do all the canvassing . Most of all , I want to thank the people of Ely and East Cambridgeshire for engage in the conversation and put their trust in I to be their MP . I will do my utmost to make sure that their voice be hear in this House . I will also try to be the very good local mp possible . there will be a three - minute time limit after the next speaker . I call Michelle Welsh to make her maiden speech . to stand here be such an honour , in a place that be bestow with such history , and that honour have be bestow on I by the good people of my constituency of Sherwood Forest . I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , the right hon . Sir Mark Spencer , who serve the constituency of Sherwood for 14 year . bear and raise locally , he be very proud to be the MP . when I tell people I be the Member of Parliament for Sherwood Forest , most think of Robin Hood and what a legend he be . many have try to claim he , but we all know that Robin Hood really belong to Nottinghamshire . however , Sherwood Forest be so much more than Robin Hood . it be a beat heart of our coal industry , and it be the place where the first vertical flight take place and where engine for plane be build and test for our war effort in the second world war . Sherwood Forest be Lord Byron , it be Ada Lovelace , it be our farm , village , our town , and most importantly , it be our people . the community of Sherwood Forest be kind people . they be strong , they be proud , and they tell you exactly how they feel . to be their MP be an absolute honour . I be raise on a council estate in Nottinghamshire in the 1980 — hard to believe , I know . I see poverty every single day in my community . I look it in the eye . I see social injustice , and I see a system that not only take away an industry , but do its very good to break work people . it be those experience grow up that have bring I here today to be a voice for the most vulnerable and to stand up when it count . I start from the premise that where someone be bear should not determine their future . as the first woman , and the first work - class woman , to be the Labour Member of Parliament for Sherwood Forest , I think I have smash a glass ceiling , but the truth be I have merely crack a porch window . the battle that my mum and her fellow sister be fight all those year ago for equality , for well service and for health service for woman still exist . as the Member of Parliament for Sherwood Forest , I will be fight those battle so that every girl or woman and every work - class child know that they can , and they will . my son be bear in the first week of the very first lockdown . the care that we have at the hand of maternity service be far from the standard that any mother should expect . the trauma of what happen to I have not leave I , but it be that very trauma and the strength and courage of my precious son that have drive I to campaign for well maternity service . we be one of the lucky one ; my partner and I leave the hospital with our son , but many family in Nottinghamshire do not . that be why I will continue to support the 2 , 000 - plus family in Nottinghamshire who be part of the big maternity review in NHS history . it be why I will work alongside the trust and organisation to improve maternity service and to ensure that those family in Nottinghamshire get the answer they need and deserve . I go to school in the ' 80 — again , hard to believe , I know — and early ' 90 , in an era of leaky building , not enough textbook and not enough paper to write on . I then work in education under the previous Labour Government , an era of different educational pathway , high - quality work experience , the education maintenance allowance and a national career service . I remain so proud of the work that I do in establish sure Start , on the no child leave behind campaign , on tackle child poverty and on raise standard . I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who be transform education once again and give back the life chance to so many child live in Sherwood Forest . health inequality in Sherwood Forest be stark . those live in the south of Nottinghamshire live on average seven and a half year long than those who live in the north of my constituency . we must do more to combat this . early diagnosis , prevention and healthcare in the community be absolutely vital . Sherwood Forest be a rich tapestry of people and organisation help each other , from the carer ' support group in Hucknall to in Sam ' s Name in Ollerton . Sherwood Forest know , through its history , how to stand shoulder to shoulder . I be proud of the business in my constituency that employ local people , include J . Murphy & Sons , found in 1951 , a global specialist engineering and construction company with over 3 , 500 employee . it be clear to I that we be a Government of business , and I will do everything I can to bring investment into my constituency and to support our local economy . my journey to this place speak to the value and moral of my mother and father — the one they instill in I through the endless overtime they work — the time that they go without so that I and my brother would not , their endless backing , and the absolute faith they place in I . my journey speak to my courageous son , who already in his four and a half year have be through so much , and the commitment and support from my unwavering partner . my journey here speak to every child who think that they do not belong in the corridor of this building , or in this Chamber , because of where they come from . my politics be a politic of service , and that be what I will do : serve the people of Sherwood Forest . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in the Budget debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) on make her maiden speech , and wish she well . last Wednesday , we sit in this Chamber to listen to the Chancellor ' s Budget of broken promise , and as each day have go by , we have witness the mask slip from this Labour Government . even before the Budget , we see the Chancellor start to set out her stall with the callous cutting of the winter fuel allowance , and just this week Labour have attack student with a monumental hike in tuition fee — a tax on aspiration and on young people and their hard - work family . as the week have go by , we have see the Budget unravel as manifesto promise after promise have be break . I have constituent — from pensioner and farmer to business , charity , community organisation , GPs and many more — come to I with anxiety and worry . my local farmer be devastate . promise make to they have be break with no consultation , give they no opportunity to plan . the Government have show that they be no friend of the farmer , the producer of our food and the guardian of our countryside . farmer have go from food hero during covid to be abandon in the cold . the Government seem to have fail to grasp that family farm be not only farm ; they be much more . family farmer invest in their business for the long term , for the next generation . the Government need to keep their promise , reverse the change to agricultural property relief and business property relief , and abolish what I and other now term the family farm tax . I think it be Thomas Jefferson who say that honesty be the first chapter in the book of wisdom . do my right hon . friend agree that the way that this Government be serially break all the promise they make during the election be corrosive for our politic ? absolutely . small business also face a tax on aspiration and entrepreneurship . inheritance tax will be the death of enterprise . the increase to employer national insurance and the minimum wage will stymie growth and investment . inflation look set to be high than growth under the Chancellor ' s measure . in fact , far from this be a Budget for growth , the measure set out by the Chancellor will be a hindrance . if we put all this together , who do it hit ? work people . even the Chief Secretary to the Treasury admit that on tv . think , too , of the job for work people that will be lose , or never even create , thank to the Budget of broken promise . this be a Budget that punish pensioner , destroy our countryside , chase after our motorist , deny work family and their child choice over education , and saddle young people with more student debt . it be a Budget about ever - increase spending , ever - high taxis and an ever - expand state . prosperity have never be the result of the state hand out more taxpayer money ; it have come from empower business , entrepreneur and family , and it be about enable opportunity . once upon a time , Labour would have be think of as the party of work people , but not now . far from fix the foundation , it be dig an even big hole . what a privilege it be to follow so many accomplished and particularly move maiden speech . I start by congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor on her first Budget . it show the first step of this new Labour Government as the work of change really begin . I hope that it will mark a turning point from decline to investment , from instability to security and from self - interest to public service . the choice make in the Budget certainly turn the page on the last 14 year . they begin to restore our public service and improve the right and reward of low and middle - income earner . in the short time that I have , I want to touch on three area of particular concern to my constituent . first , I welcome the £ 25 billion - plus of investment to get our national health service back on its foot , cut waiting time and deliver 40 , 000 extra elective appointment a week . that move will give real hope to people worry about their healthcare . it recognise our NHS staff across the service , such as those at Aintree university hospital in my constituency and in specialist facility like the Walton centre . will the hon . member give way ? I will not . I also welcome the intention to shift the focus to prevention in healthcare . my constituency be one of the most deprived in the UK , and far too many suffer the health impact of poverty , addiction and despair . I hope to work with the Government to address those long - term public health crisis . next , and crucially , the Budget deliver some long overdue justice and fairness for those who have be fail by the state . it will transfer the investment reserve fund in the mineworker ' pension scheme to its member , and will fund compensation scheme for the victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal and the infected blood scandal , include a number of my constituent . it give I hope that the Government have show a commendable will to right historical wrong . I hope that in the month and year ahead , the Chancellor will also consider the claim of the Women against State Pension Inequality — woman bear in the 1950 , include 5 , 000 in my Liverpool Walton constituency . finally , I want to mention the hospitality industry , which be central to Liverpool ' s visitor economy . the 40 % relief on business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure be welcome , but with cost continue to rise , there remain a climate of uncertainty for far too many local business . we need to level the play field between brick - and - mortar business and the online global giant , and we need to prioritise our high street and take the necessary step to give relief to local business . I call Dame Caroline Dinenage . you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the Gosport constituency be a community build around a share history of service in and for our armed force . thirteen per cent of my constituent be veteran . those be good , hard - work people who have serve our country and ask for little in return , but they be not wealthy people . they be disproportionately impact by the Budget , which deliver the opposite of the growth we be promise : it deliver taxis and cut that will leave my constituent disproportionately poorer . it start with the baffling decision to cut winter fuel payment . many of my constituent exist just outside the pension credit threshold and be hang on by their fingertip . the Government ' s own datum suggest that 13 , 000 of they will lose that lifeline through the cold winter month . Age UK say that it will be 5 , 000 more than that , which will be 91 % of pensioner in Gosport . I have real concern for the health of old people in Gosport during these winter month . that concern extend to the future of some of our most important business : the care home and nursery who do such vital work and employ so many of our constituent . at this stage , I must direct the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . those organisation be seriously impact by the triple whammy of minimum wage increase , employer national insurance threshold decrease and contribution increase . hopscotch nursery in my constituency tell I that the £ 25 billion tax increase will impact business that employ a high number of low - wage worker . it estimate that the change will add almost £ 1 million in cost to their business . that can not be alleviate by productivity increase or headcount reduction , because childcare ratio be set by the Government . the service to which we entrust our most precious and loved family member rely on face - to - face care and human interaction , so the extra cost face childcare and adult social care service will be bear by their customer — work parent and the vulnerable elderly — and by employee through low wage growth . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . it be good to see the Chief Secretary to the Treasury in his place . I hope he will take on board these argument , and perhaps the overall settlement can be rework to minimise the negative impact that my hon . friend outline . I agree . I would love to see something do to exempt the childcare and adult social care sector in particular from the policy . the Budget also threaten many organisation that be central to the regeneration of our community . I welcome the fact that the cliff edge for business rate relief for hospitality , leisure and retail have be reduce , but what the Chancellor give with one hand she take away with the other , because hospitality venue can now expect to see their cost increase by £ 3 billion . in my constituency , that will potentially cripple 146 business , which employ around 2 , 000 people . while Ministers talk about the value of our creative industry , tourism and hospitality , they be ignore their fragile state . the chief executive officer of the Sound and Music charity have say that the measure will impose an extra £ 7 million in additional taxis on the grassroots live music sector . the Music Venue Trust estimate that , without additional support , 10 % of remain venue will see their door close . that be up to 120 venue , 4 , 000 job and 25 , 000 performance opportunity all lose . as well as be a Budget of broken promise , I suspect that this will become know as a Budget of unintended consequence . the decision that the Chancellor have take will have real , tangible impact on the community and those across the country . not only that , but we be saddle future generation with billion of pound of debt to pay for it . let I start by congratulate the member who have make their maiden speech this afternoon : my hon . friend the Members for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) , and for Ely and East Cambridgeshire ( Charlotte Cane ) make the first of many brilliant , I be sure , contribution to this House . it be a pleasure to speak in today ' s debate in support of the Budget present last week . it be historic : the first deliver by a Labour Chancellor in 14 year ; the first deliver by a female Chancellor , and , just as importantly , the first deliver by a Chancellor who go to school in Beckenham and Penge . on behalf of everyone in Beckenham and Penge , I congratulate the Chancellor , and I look forward to take a sign copy of the Budget to her old school in Penge very soon . two fun fact about my constituency be that we have the second big percentage of rail commuter in Britain , and the most train station of any constituency . we be a constituency of commuter , and the vast majority who board train every morning go to work in private sector job across London . I know that life well , as it be exactly what I do before I be elect as the MP for my constituency this year . a criticism level by Opposition Members be that Labour member do not understand business . that be simply not true . for the decade before be elect , I work in the private sector , first at PwC on the graduate scheme and later for two big tech firm . the private sector add so much value to our country , and I be a passionate advocate of it . private sector company be an engine for innovation . they contribute to the economy , help we pay for vital public service and provide high - skilled , well - pay job — the sort of job that thousand of people in my constituency do , and want their child to do in the future . in order for business to plan and invest , economic and political stability be vital , and business have be starve of that in recent year . we have have six chancellor in just over three year , and sharp cut follow by serious increase , and then far plan cut . corporation tax go from 28 % to 19 % , and then to 25 % . they say that they be go to build key infrastructure ; then they pause it , rename it , announce it again , but could not tell we how they be go to fund it . they tell we that Brexit would solve all our problem , but make a disaster of that too . this budget — like this Government , in sharp contrast to the one before — be serious about provide the economic and political stability that businesse in our country need to invest and grow . I be delighted to see investment in vital infrastructure , include Transport for London infrastructure , and a new , co - operative approach to work between my good friend the Transport Secretary and our excellent Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan . I have no doubt that that will be of great benefit to my constituent , include the thousand who commute across London each day and the business for which they work , and I look forward to support it later . this be a Budget of the public sector , by the public sector , for the public sector . neither the Chancellor nor the Prime Minister be able to define a " work person " with any clarity in various confused and stumble attempt . do the definition include the entrepreneur who take risk , invest money , employ " work " people , work hard themselves , and collect vat , national insurance and pension contribution — which they gift - wrap and pay to the state — as well as pay corporation tax on any residual profit ? if not , why not ? however , we can now see that that be irrelevant , as the massive increase in employer ' national insurance contribution and the equally venal cut in the payment threshold from £ 9 , 000 to £ 5 , 000 be a huge tax on employment in the private sector , which , unlike the state , can not print money in taxpayer ' collective name to cover any budget shortfall . this will mean that the private sector will employ few people by design , and will reduce pay rise , increase price , invest less , and pay less corporation tax . it be a disaster for a Government to hand out taxpayer ' money like confetti , without proper check and balance , take hard - work taxpayer for fool . this Budget be only possible because quantitative easing have allow the state to grow without justification , nurture the culture of central planning , misguide net zero obsession , and all the element of collectivism that take a generation to destroy the Soviet Union . the Chancellor have land a knockout punch on private sector entrepreneur . it be not only small business that suffer . the farming industry , already in a parlous state , have be far undermine by revise death tax amendment . if a rethink of this lunacy be not forthcoming , the continuity and long - term investment require to provide this over - populate island with a degree of food security will be destroy by force sale of land on death . farming be a tough , vocational career , and the average age of farmer be now over 60 . the same be true for family business , which be also set to suffer disruptive death taxis . the backbone of Britain ' s nation of shopkeeper be be break by socialist design . as Winston Churchill presciently observe , " I contend that for a nation to try to tax itself into prosperity be like a man stand in a bucket and try to lift himself up by the handle . " I thank the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) for his speech , but he should know well , because one of his relative use to be a doctor in my village in the Cotwolds . I , and the rest of the country , have wait for this Budget for 14 year . I have work as a gp throughout that time , and I have watch with horror as our NHS have go from be the good health service in the world — as it be in 2010 — to be a service on its knee . for 14 year I have watch the gap between rich and poor grow wide and wide . for 14 year I have watch the fabric of our school , and the NHS , fall apart . I therefore welcome this Budget . it be a Budget that lift the curse of low pay and invest in the special educational need of our child . it be the Budget that will finally compensate those who have be wrong by the infected blood scandal . it be a Budget that will rebuild Britain . lift people out of low pay and make our country more equal be probably the most effective way of prevent ill health and make our population healthier , so what I really welcome in this Budget be the huge amount of funding for the NHS — the big amount in 14 year . with that funding , though , need to come reform and an increase in productivity , and I want to outline a few little project on which we need to concentrate to increase our productivity . on GP access , Dr Tom Sutherland of Dursley practice have — will the hon . member join I in express concern about the rise in national insurance contribution and the impact it will have on GP surgery , include potential closure ? GPs in my constituency have be ask I about the impact . I understand that it will be mitigate through funding . I be not exactly sure how , but I have no doubt — [ interruption . ] that be because I have not be inform , but I have no doubt that it will be cope with . I know that this Government will rebuild general practice , just as the conservative party trash it and break the back of it . I be not take any criticism from any of you about the NHS . order . please be seat . you be not take any criticism from I . you say " you " . please do not refer to colleague as " you " . sorry . I do get rather angry there , and I shall not get angry any more . let I talk about gp access . we need to get doctor , not receptionist or 111 , to perform triage , and we need to start think in a different way . we do not want a protocol - drive nhs ; what we need be a genuine doctor - patient relationship . we also need to develop neighbourhood — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it a relevant point of order ? it be . can the point of order not wait , Mr Stuart ? no , it be relevant here . I wonder whether it be in order for the hon . Gentleman to have be give assurance by the Government that funding will be put in place to mitigate the impact on GPs , because that information have repeatedly be refuse to this House . I know , Madam Deputy Speaker that you represent all Back Benchers , like I , in make sure the truth be out . you can definitely raise that in your contribution later . it be not a point of order for the Chair , but no doubt the Minister and Front Benchers have hear and can respond accordingly . Dr Opher , you will shortly run out of time , so I would be quick . okay . I work in general practice for 30 year . there be always mitigation for tax change , and I have no doubt that the Government will look after GPs . no doubt ? I have no doubt . I would like to finish my speech , if I may . we need to invest in neighbourhood health centre . in Suffolk , Dr Tim Reed be develop a genuinely holistic service , which will save money and increase productivity in mental health provision and among paramedic . this be something that we need to explore much more . I spend 48 hour with a love one in Bristol Royal infirmary ' s A & E department , and I see the huge pressure that it be under . I notice that Dr Simon Laing be use innovative way of go out with paramedic , keep patient at home and work with paramedic in his department . that be the type of adaptation we need in the NHS . this Budget begin the process of transform the NHS and will reward NHS staff up and down the country , who continue to deliver excellent unscheduled care . we must fix the foundation of care and use the new funding to ensure that more patient be care for at home . difficult decision be be take , but all of we on both side of the House want to see the NHS become the good in the world again , and this Budget start that process . we know that growth come from invest in productivity and skill , and I , too , welcome the £ 22 billion for the NHS . long - term public investment be essential for the security and stability that the UK need . however , we hear about the issue relate to employer ' NI contribution , which will hit doctor , dentist , care home and local hospice , add a significant amount to their annual cost base per employee . there be also pressure on voluntary , community and social enterprise . in my district , Teignbridge Community and Voluntary Services tell I that the sector employ some 3 % of the local population , who be now all subject to the NI increase . although it be well than nothing , the business rate reduction from 75 % to 40 % will disappoint local retail , hospitality and leisure business — not forget the inheritance tax threat to Devon ' s family farm . there be nothing in this Budget for social care , for Devon ' s crumble hospital or for Devon ' s essential transport . bank share be soar follow this Budget . do my hon . friend agree that the liberal Democrat proposal to reverse the Conservative Government ' s cut to the big bank levy , raise around £ 4 billion a year , would mean that we would not need the GP tax , the family farm tax or the winter fuel cut and that we could fund upgrade to the Treliske , Derriford and North Devon hospital — order . this be too long an intervention . my hon . friend be absolutely right : there be other way that this money could have be find . the Liberal Democrats have long be say that we should be look to the bank , the big oil company and the big international tech company to pay their fair share , and that be where money should be seek . there be nothing in the Budget for Devon ' s essential transport . last year ' s pothole fund be a " drop in the ocean " , accord to Devon County Council , and the 50 % increase in this Budget still leave a big hole . not even mention in the Budget be the completion of the dawlish rail resilience project , which be key to connect the south - west . without funding , the design team will soon be redeploy and all the progress to date will be lose . this project will cost million more if it be not do now , and I urge the Minister to meet we to get it fund . growth in the economy in Devon and Cornwall be heavily dependent on fast , reliable train service , and we see what happen with Dawlish . the Budget also mention housing and local government . until July , I be leader of my district council , and I be proud that the Lib Dem administration start build council home — the first in 30 year . they be cheap to rent and cheap to heat because they be well insulate and power by air source heat pump and solar power . additional capital for social home be welcome , but the frozen local housing allowance hamper housing association that have already scale back their plan for development , and commercial developer will still try to cut affordable home from section 106 responsibility . the Budget also offer 300 new planning officer , but those be spread very thinly over the 326 planning authority . Newton Abbot ' s social housing need have increase by 50 % . in my constituency — like in Ely — the average house price be 11 time the average earning and rent have soar . the broken housing market be fail Newton Abbot , and the propose change to the planning rule be insufficient to fix it . home be unreachable for too many family . People be be deny the right to a safe and secure place to call home . I welcome the multi - year settlement for council and the removal of the " Hunger Games " - style bidding for grant involve huge amount of waste effort write bid and unachievable timeframe . we can not let that centralised control continue . we need real devolution , but devolution be not just reorganisation — order . I call Rosie wrighting . like many of my hon . friend , I have spend my career in business — specifically , in retail head office — so I be proud to be a part of a government that be pro - business and pro - worker . the last time a Labour Government deliver a Budget in this House , I be 12 year old . that Labour Government look after our public service , focus on cut crime , be ambitious about our education and invest in our NHS . it be because of those decision that I have the opportunity that I do and that I be stand in this House today . since then , those priority have be forget and our constituent have have to bear the brunt . People in my constituency of Kettering know all too well the price they have pay for the last 14 year of Tory failure : crumble hospital and school , rise crime and a crisis in SEND . work people in this country have not have a Government who have work for they for 14 year . it be shameful that the previous Conservative Government promise funding that simply do not exist . they let our community think that they be go to receive money , know that it be not there and that it would be someone else ' s problem after the election . we now finally have a Labour Government and a truly Labour Budget that prioritise work people . it be incredible to be the young woman in the House today , but it be even more incredible to have watch the first female Chancellor deliver the first Labour Budget in 14 year . it show I and many young woman that there be no limit to our ambition . regardless of what the Leader of the Opposition think , this be a glass ceiling shatter . there be some hugely important measure in this Budget for the people of Kettering . our public service deserve well than the treatment they have have for the last 14 year , and I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who be fix the foundation and rebuild Britain . People all over the country be wait to see what this Government will deliver and , thank to this Budget , we can give they hope that they will have an NHS fit for the future and a country that invite investment , without barrier to opportunity , and in which work people be at the heart of everything we do . I call Charlie Maynard . not present . give the raid on family firm , it be worth point out that the art of a good Budget and smart taxation be pluck the goose to get the maximum number of feather with the minimum amount of hiss . on that basis , I be afraid this Budget fail lamentably , and it certainly do in my constituency . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , in his opening remark , say that 500 farm a year will be affect by the Budget ' s change to agricultural property relief . he say it casually , as if it be acceptable . well , that be approximately one for every constituency , and very much more in rural constituency . the prospect of this affecting , and potentially close , two farm a year in my constituency be , frankly , horrendous . I urge the Government to think again . I agree with the government that it be legitimate to look at those who be land - banking to avoid inheritance tax . if that be their intention , they will have support across the House , but attack family farm be not on , and I hope the Government will think again . the Government say that growth be their no . 1 priority . how so ? in my constituency , as we have hear , the long - await a303 improvement have be can , and I suspect that the A350 improvement will follow , as the north - south strategic study that be to be the prelude to a Westbury bypass look like it have be indefinitely delay . my right hon . friend be make a characteristically excellent speech , and he mention the transport project that have be scrap . we have not hear about what be happen to the North Hykeham relief road in my constituency . do he agree that invest in road in this way create growth ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . a Government who be go for growth do not can big infrastructure project . as the mercury drop , the removal of the winter fuel allowance be become a real worry to many of our rural constituent who live in old , cold home , many of which have no access to gas . as we approach Remembrance Sunday , the Department for Education , in its wisdom , have decide to remove funding for combined cadet force . ccf have triple since 2012 , and they be a powerful engine for social mobility , as be our armed force overall . they give kid the confidence they need , for a small amount of money . the withdrawal of funding be appalling . as we all stand around our war memorial this Sunday , we will , of course , be admire our cadet . it seem spiteful and vindictive that the Government be remove their support . the Government need to go for growth , but damage our farmer and our infrastructure , particularly in rural area , be not the way ahead . I urge they to think again . I be pleased to be able to speak in the debate on behalf of my constituent in Exeter . this Budget be a welcome break from 14 year of policy uncertainty , fiscal incompetence and austerity for our public service . it start to put this country back on a firm footing , rebuild the foundation , and invest in community and place like Exeter . exeter people have have a tough few year . the inflation they experience as high mortgage cost , high rent , high energy price and high food price be make bad by the last government ' s catastrophic and incompetent financial management , and yet we have no apology from the Conservative Benches . exeter have huge potential as a thriving economy . indeed , Exeter be the economic driver of our region , with a gross value add of around £ 6 billion pound . it sit at the heart of a travel - to - work area of over 470 , 000 resident . exeter be home to a world - class research - lead university , and we have a good - in - class further education college and good secondary school . we have the Met Office and the Exeter Science Park , and we be home to far cut - edge research , include one of the UK ' s supercomputer . however , Exeter have be hold back over recent year by a Tory Government that have not invest in public service and our economy in the way we need to succeed . that change with this Budget . I be particularly pleased that this Budget commit the UK to an R & D budget of £ 20 billion , which will mean Exeter and the UK remain at the forefront of scientific innovation . from climate change to land management , healthcare to biotechnology and beyond , Exeter be already a hub for scientific research , but we can do even more . I listen to my resident on the doorstep in the Newtown area of Exeter at the weekend , who be really pleased about the investment in our NHS . from long waiting list to our lack of NHS dentistry service and closure of community pharmacy , my resident have be affect by the huge strain the NHS have find itself under in recent year . I be pleased that this new investment in the NHS budget will begin to fix our local nhs , though people realise that will take time . while the secondary school in Exeter do not suffer from the awful RAAC crisis , because every single one of they be rebuild under the last Labour Government , I know how important the new funding will be to school around the country . invest in our education setting be important . I will be support the excellent Exeter College as it seek to grow its campus , to continue to deliver exceptional education to young people in Exeter and across the south - west . have a healthy , well - educate city , with opportunity to work in the high - tech sector of the future be vital to our future economic prosperity . I close by welcome that this be a Budget that recognise that reality , and also recognise that the south - west region , and exeter in particular , have huge potential and will play a significant role in the growth of the UK economy in the future . I congratulate all those who make their maiden speech today . this Budget be herald as a Budget for rebuild Britain , so let we take a close look at one or two aspect of that . first , as far as I be concern , the care sector be an integral part of our national health and wellbeing . how will the additional employer national insurance cost affect that sector ? recently , I have the pleasure of visit the Burnbank care home in Buckie , in my constituency , one of 12 care home run by Ron Taylor and his partner . Ron and his colleague pride themselves on the ethos of their home , where personalised care be provide at the expense of large profit , and where staff turnover be low and morale be high . Ron tell I they come through the pandemic without a single case of covid in their home . how will the national insurance change help to rebuild the economy , when Ron and his partner must consider how they will find the substantial additional sum necessary to ensure the home continue to operate with the same wonderful care and humanity ? can there not be an exception make for this sector ? secondly , let I turn to farming . food security be the bedrock of everything else . we can not rebuild Britain without food security . recently , during a political discussion with my daughter , I ask she , " where do you think your food come from ? " she say , " sainsbury ' s . " just under a year ago , the then shadow Secretary of State for the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs state that the Labour party have no intention to raise additional revenue through the agricultural property relief provision . to reverse that decision , after make an explicit promise not to do so , be shameful , and will put confidence in this Government at an all - time low , after only four month . that be quite an achievement . thirdly , let I press the issue of rebuild public confidence . the new Government rightly prioritise sort out the infected blood and the Post Office scandal , which be two important step in rebuild public confidence in our public service and in Government generally . but what of the WASPI woman , who be refer to by the hon . member for Liverpool Walton ( Dan Carden ) ? there be no mention of they in the Budget and no understanding that this be a vital part of the process of rebuild public confidence in what we do in this place . Compensation be recommend six month ago by the parliamentary and health service ombudsman , and I call on the Government and the Minister to address that issue . these woman deserve justice , not just mean - test justice — no ifs , no but , just do it . finally , the people of Scotland be leave wonder exactly how this Budget , bill as rebuild Britain , will actually work for they . I have many other question , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I will have to leave it there . I congratulate all hon . member who have make their maiden speech today and who have speak so powerfully . I be very honoured to speak in this debate , as it be a Budget that break the mould . it break the mould with its delivery by Britain ' s first female Chancellor of the Exchequer . it break the mould with its ambitious investment in industry and public service , which speak to every part of the United Kingdom . and it break the mould of Tory Budgets and mini - Budgets , which lumber the country with decline living standard , a painful lack of investment , public service at break point , and no economic growth to show for it . the imperative for investment in service and industry have never be great . my right hon . friend the Chancellor have respond to that challenge , deliver a Budget that have ambition , aspiration and fairness at its heart . we be fix the foundation so that we can rebuild this country . the priority of this Labour Government be growth — growth for our economy , for wage , for living standard and for our public service . this mean an uplift in the national living wage and the national minimum wage , give a wage boost to those on the low income . there be a record £ 22 . 6 billion investment in the NHS , which cover 40 , 000 new elective appointment a week and a programme to modernise service and slash waiting time . let I be clear : this additional funding have to make its way to frontline service in Scotland , where one in six scot be languish on a waiting list . we have also have a massive increase in education funding but , again , the Scottish Government must make sure that this money make its way to our council budget . we must also get the money into those school impact by the RAAC crisis , such as St Kentigern ' s academy in Blackburn where West lothian council have not receive one penny in financial support for the £ 35 million partial rebuild of the school . I thank my hon . friend for give way . conservative Members have say that they would like to see tax cut in the Budget , but do she agree that they have not spell out how they would pay for those tax cut and which public service and investment they would cut to pay for those cut ? my hon . friend make a good point . investment must be pay for . I think that member across the House be very much aware of the desperate need for investment in our public service and in industry . investment be require in social and affordable home across the UK , to offer security and stability to more than one million people who have nowhere to call home . again , the Scottish Government must grasp the nettle here and deal with the housing emergency throughout Scotland . they have to deliver funding to the council and the register social landlord to bring down the shameful level of homelessness that we see right across the country . my right hon . friend the Chancellor be deliver the large budget settlement for Scotland in the history of devolution . as I have say , this money must reach frontline service , struggle family and local community . no more excuse from the SNP Government . for too long , they have bungle Scotland ' s finance and under - invest in public service , with many service , such as the NHS and council - run service , stretch to breaking point , all while cry , " it wisnae I , " and point to Westminster . no more . at the election , we say , " Don ' t send a message to Westminster ; send a Government , " and that be exactly what the people of Scotland do . the Budget make good on Labour ' s commitment to deliver the change that the scottish people vote for — change that deliver for Scotland and every part of the UK . I congratulate all those who make their maiden speech today , and I congratulate President Trump on his election . while many of we in this House have legitimate concern about what his victory presage for democracy and the rule of law , we should not undermine those value by criticise the american people for the choice that they have make . it be a consequential presidential election , and this should have be a consequential Budget , give the cost of living crisis , record NHS waiting list , crumble public service and decay infrastructure . after year of broken promise by an out - of - touch Conservative Government , people be desperate for fundamental change . sadly , the Budget fail to deliver it . there be aspect that my party and I welcome , particularly extra investment in our NHS , although where be the structural change and reform of social care that be key to save our NHS ? more fundamentally , despite the Government ' s talk the talk , they have not walk the walk to grow our economy . in fact , much of what the Chancellor announce last week will hold we back . as the liberal Democrat spokesperson for transport , I question whether the Chancellor be serious about economic growth , give that she have inflict a real - term cut to the transport budget . our transport system should be the engine of our economy . after year of neglect our infrastructure , the time have come to make target investment that would make a real difference to people ' s live by initiate organic growth , rather than the sugar rush of increased Government spending , which , as the OBR have show , will dissipate in future year . sadly , the Transport Secretary ' s previous promise of " unprecedented funding " have result in little more than recycle infrastructure announcement , include some that have already be build , and increase to bus and rail fare that will hit the poorest hard . it be not just with regard to transport policy that the Budget disappoint . labour claim to be champion work people and growth , but the increase in employer NI contribution be a tax on job , as it be when the Tories do it . it will put small business , which should be in the vanguard of our growth strategy , in jeopardy , and as the IFS have say , it will depress wage in the long run . we all appreciate the mess that the Government have inherit from the Conservatives . early today , the Prime Minister say that his government " make the economy the centrepiece of our Budget " . however , a Budget that damage the finance of family and business while stifle growth be not do what it say on the tin , but rather kick the can down the road , and do nothing to reset our economy by lay the foundation for genuine , productive , organic growth . I thank member for their maiden speech — such warm and thoughtful contribution . I look forward to hear more from the member who speak today . growth for high living standard be the define mission of this Government , and rightly so . Labour member know — we have see it play out over the last 14 year — that there be a link between the health of the national economy and the health of family finance up and down the country . why have family in this country suffer in the last 14 year ? it be because productivity growth have be on the floor . have wage in this country continue to grow since the financial crisis at the rate they have before , family would not be just £ 1 , 000 or £ 2 , 000 a year well off ; on average , worker would be £ 10 , 700 well off have the conservative party grow the economy and our productivity so that family ' living standard could improve . I think particularly of young people and child , and the economy that they will grow up in . I want people all over the country — not just in Chipping Barnet but across the United Kingdom — to enter a job market where good job be available in every place . in election to come in five , 10 or 15 year ' time , I want our politic to be define not by scarcity and fighting over limited resource because we have continue on the path of decline that the Conservatives set we on , but by abundance and there be enough — maybe even more than enough — for every family . then , child from whatever background — particularly those from background like mine , grow up in low - income family , in social housing and on free school meal — can have the opportunity that they need . this Budget have do so much to help child and family like that . we have change the fiscal rule so that we can invest again in our public service and infrastructure . we be reform welfare so that we can support more people into work . we be put money into affordable housing so that we can get to 1 . 5 million new home . we be invest in transport , include Northern Powerhouse rail and here in London . I be confident that , thank to those reform , the Office for Budget Responsibility , which set out that it have not yet take account of many of the reform that the Government be implement , will be able to revise up those growth forecast so that , as the Chancellor say , what we have achieve so far be not the summit of our ambition but only the beginning . it be a pleasure to take part in the debate . we have hear fantastic maiden speech from across the House , and I be sure that we have all enjoy the insight from they . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) . I love the way he set out his aspiration for the kind of country of abundance that we should seek . he be entirely right , but I be just not sure that this Budget be the way to get there . if the penny drop with he over time , I hope that he will be able to engage with we in come up with a more constructive way of deliver the growth that this country need . not only be this a Budget of broken promise , but unfortunately — and this be an important issue — it be a bad faith Budget . I do not want to rehearse — although there be so much to rehearse — the 50 promise not to raise taxis or the bogus £ 22 billion that be not validate by the OBR , but those be serious point . it be good to see the engagement from Labour Members , because in politic one can not afford to have a reputation for be dishonest and not do what one say . [ interruption . ] Labour Members who laugh at that should remember Cicero ' s advice . he be always well at give advice than follow it , but he say : " the foundation of justice be … good faith ; that is , truth and fidelity to promise and agreement . " without that , we lose trust . do the right hon . Gentleman think that the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip be honest at all time ? Steve Tuckwell be a great man ! yes . and with respect to the hon . Gentleman ' s point , I think that the former Prime Minister and Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip be true to himself , true to his heart and true in his expression — although , like all of we , he probably have his moment . what he never do be set out on a deliberate path to mislead people . he set out his honest view of the way the world should be . unfortunately , 9 . 7 million people , include 15 , 000 of my constituent , believe the promise of the now Labour Government , and even 410 Members of Parliament think that they be be honest . I thank my right hon . friend for the speech that he be make . do he agree that many of those people will now feel betrayed ? I think people do feel betray . we need to conduct our politic as honestly as we can . the Labour Government break their promise not to raise taxis on work people , because , as the OBR have make clear , the NICs raise will overwhelmingly fall on work people . in fact , if we go through the number , as I do , it turn out that there be a big reduction in wage than there be net receipt to the Exchequer . that be quite a remarkable achievement — probably only a Labour Government could do that . of course , the Government have also put up the cost of get on the bus . if ever there be a symbol of work people , travel from my constituency to a low - pay job in Hull , that be it . it will cost they £ 500 a year extra out of tax income . I do not know why the hon . member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) be grin — I know he grin a lot , but it should not be funny to he that someone in a low - wage job who travel into Hull every day will pay £ 500 a year more because of the decision his Government be make . for a couple , it be £ 1 , 000 a year . that cost be real , and it should not be glossed over . there be just one train station in my constituency , and people who live in Withernsea have no choice but to travel 26 mile to get there . the Prime Minister ' s constituent be bless with a pick and mix of way to get to the office : the tube , the overground , train , Ubers , bolt , and even Boris bike . that be not the case in rural and coastal East Yorkshire : my constituent get the bus at 7 o ' clock in the morning , and they get another bus at 6 o ' clock at night . that be their lived reality , and the serious impact of this Budget should be recognise . another broken promise be to pensioner , who be tell that they would have security in retirement — that their benefit would not be touch . take £ 300 from the very poor pensioner be not keep that promise . [ interruption . ] the very poor pensioner be those eligible for pension credit . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . the very poor pensioner be those eligible for pension credit , and nearly 900 , 000 of they will not get that £ 300 . that be the truth — there be no point deny it . finally , there be the awful betrayal of british farmer , many of whom work from dawn to dusk to ensure our supermarket be full of fresh fruit and veg . accord to my constituent William Hodgson , who run a small family farm near Withernsea , it be a " rural catastrophe " . I ask the Government to think again . one thing that people in Folkestone and Hythe say on the doorstep during the general election be that public service , particularly the NHS , do not work any more . I be proud that the first Labour Budget in 14 year have answer those call : billion of pound will be invest in the UK ' s public service . that will be the start of a long process of rebuild those service , which be leave flat on their face after 14 year of Tory neglect . it be interesting that in the minute after the Budget , Folkestone and Hythe Conservatives be tweet at I on social medium , complain about high taxis and high borrowing . that sound to I like the arsonist criticise the fire service . the Chancellor be very open about what be require to start fix the foundation of our country , and the question that the Conservatives can not answer be what taxis they would have increase instead . if they would have borrow less , what public service would they have cut ? the truth be that after another five year of Tory rule , we would have see more austerity , leave our public service to rot — more hardship and literally more pain for the work people who have bear the brunt of 14 year of austerity , covid restriction and the rise cost of living . I be proud to be a Labour MP support a Labour Government who choose not to go down that road . I fully accept that this budget involve hard choice , but they be hard choice that be duck by the conservative party for year and year . in addition to the headline from the Budget , which I warmly welcome — such as the £ 22 billion for the NHS and raise the national minimum wage — this Budget have give hope to the hundred of constituent write to I about a whole range of matter , include child with special educational need and disability . in Kent , the Tory - run county council ' s SEND provision be on its knee ; thank to labour ' s Budget , there will now be £ 1 . 3 billion of extra help to build an education system that can cater for every child ' s need . for people in rural area of my constituency , such as Romney Marsh , who have no , or no proper access to , broadband , £ 500 million will be allocate to help improve such service . the Budget ' s increase in carer ' s allowance will be welcome by the over 2 , 000 carer in my constituency receive that allowance , and the extra £ 600 million in grant funding to local authority for social care be especially urgent in area such as mine , where the population be old and more vulnerable . I also warmly welcome the £ 100 billion of infrastructure investment over the next five year , and will continue to make the case for investment in upgrade the rail freight infrastructure in Kent , particularly to maximise the use of the channel tunnel ' s rail freight capacity . I congratulate those hon . member who make their maiden speech in this debate . their speech be touch and very inspirational . the Chancellor promise we that by make the necessary tough choice , the autumn Budget would provide the blueprint for unlock growth and prosperity , yet I struggle to see the substantive improvement that my constituent will experience to their life — and for good reason . many people in Birmingham Perry Barr have never feel as poor , as dishearten and as ignore as they do at this moment , and it do not take much soul - search to see why . the Budget do not deliver for the 73 . 7 % of pensioner in my constituency who be no long eligible for the winter fuel payment , many of whom be now force to choose between keep warm , feed themselves or incur an inordinate amount of debt . the Budget do not hear the plea of family in low - income household . some 48 . 9 % of child in Birmingham Perry Barr live in poverty , and 5 , 930 child in my constituency alone live in household directly impact by the two - child benefit cap , yet despite the child poverty crisis unfold nationally , this Government ' s refusal to remove that cruel measure have limit their ability to tackle the issue head - on . in the wake of the Budget , the safety net for our nation ' s most vulnerable stakeholder be unable to support the weight of living ; the protection be brittle and hollow out . this Budget do not serve my constituent in Birmingham Perry Barr , nor do it ease the burden for Birmingham ' s 1 . 2 million resident , who continue to face indiscriminate cut to local government spending . follow mismanagement , Birmingham city council , which , incidentally , be labour - run , be essentially bankrupt . necessary service such as transport for schoolchildren with special need , adult social care , youth centre and library be be cut and close — the list be endless . what be once a far - reach local government authority have be reduce to a minimalist , bare - bone , skeleton service . while I welcome the Government ' s slight increase in local government finance , Birmingham city council need a significant amount of funding . I urge the Government to consider increase local government finance . it be a great honour to speak in today ' s Budget debate . this be the first Labour Budget in 14 year , deliver by the first female Chancellor in 800 year , and it lay the foundation for local and national economic growth . like many high street across the UK , town centre in my constituency have face serious challenge . over the year , business have close , unemployment have rise and crime have increase — all sign of 14 year of conservative under - investment and neglect that have hurt not only our local economy , but the very fabric of our community . one thing we can all agree on be that we want our town centre to come back to life . we want to restore the vibrancy that make our high street the heart of our community . that be why I will speak about the possibility that this new Budget open for town such as Leigh , Atherton , Golborne , Lowton and Tyldesley — town that have be fight back , despite year of disinvestment . we have see that target support can make a real difference . take Leigh Spinners Mill , my former place of work : this community - own , co - operative venture host more than 80 business , from start - up to social enterprise , all thrive right there in Leigh . those business have flourish with minimal investment , prove that when we create the right condition , such as affordable rent and reduce business rate , local economy can thrive . as much as we celebrate project such as the Mill , however , the question remain how we bring the same success to our high street . the Government ' s new business rate initiative be a step in the right direction , protect small business and encourage entrepreneurship . support high street be not just about economic ; it be about revitalise the unique character of our community and create the independence need for business to grow . I be particularly encourage by the Government ' s commitment to the long - term plan for town , despite the £ 22 billion black hole leave by the previous Government . that strategy align with Labour ' s manifesto priority , reaffirm our commitment to build a sustainable , inclusive economy that benefit everybody in our community . like everyone else , I would like to extend my congratulation to those who have make their maiden speech , and to say what a pleasure and honour it be to share the Chamber with they . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which detail my professional career as an optometrist provide NHS service and own small business . this be my first Budget , just as it be for many other member in the Chamber , and I have listen carefully to member dissect it and weigh up the detail — as always , the devil be in the detail . as an NHS care worker , I welcome the increase in the NHS budget , but I be concern by the absence of specific measure to address the funding crisis in profession such as dentistry , pharmacy and optometry , all of which have important role to play in provide care to patient . investment in such service will save million in the long run . in my constituency , there be a real disparity in patient and gp number ; in fact , it be the second large such disparity in the country . for every gp , there be 3 , 262 patient . that be untenable . as a result , many people can not see their gp , and that be where optometry , dentistry and pharmacy play a huge role , serve those who do not even have a registered gp . I be sorry that there be a need to do more to promote the contribution that those profession make to the NHS , and ensure that they be properly fund in the future . I welcome the increase in funding for social care and special educational need and disability , and in the national minimum wage . however , in place a burden on pensioner and small business owner , the Budget have miss an opportunity . the Government could have use wealth taxis on those in our society with the broad shoulder to raise the revenue necessary to fund improvement in our public service . instead , they allow the money to be raise from small business and those who be most vulnerable , such as our pensioner . I warmly welcome the additional £ 47 . 7 billion that this Budget will deliver to the Scottish Government — the large settlement in the history of devolution . that additional funding can rebuild Scotland and our fail public service , but the Scottish Government must now take responsibility , admit their failure and take a long - term approach that be serious about address Scotland ' s challenge . economic and political stability underpin the Chancellor ' s Budget . the undoubted attractiveness of Scotland for domestic and international investment require the removal of uncertainty , which can hinder investment plan . only when there be a Government in Scotland who seek to genuinely work collaboratively with the UK Government and the private sector on investment plan for not just the next decade but beyond will we fully reap the benefit of this Budget . however , we have a Government in Scotland who make policy and economic decision through the prism of the constitution , and who seek , as a matter of ideology , to find point of difference and divergence . that be demonstrate by their failure to even turn up and vote for GB Energy — unquestionably an economic opportunity for Scotland . the Chancellor have commit the UK Government to work closely with the Scottish Government on the industrial strategy and the national wealth fund , but the vehicle for promote that collaboration — the Council of the Nations and Regions — be unfortunately be undermine by the SNP , which can not bear the prospect of UK joint working be a success . it have be manufacture grievance on behalf of local council regard representation on the council , although it have be the most centralise Administration that these island have ever see , disproportionately strip local government in Scotland of power and resource . I welcome the effort of the Secretary of State for Scotland to rise above this petty divisiveness in pursuit of a high vision for job , growth and prosperity . this Budget be a serious , strategic , long - term approach to fix our country — an approach that we have not see from the Scottish Government or in the last 14 year from the Conservative Government . it sit alongside an ambitious investment and industrial strategy — again , something that we have not see from either the SNP or the Conservatives in power in the last decade or so . I be confident that , with this new approach , we can rebuild our economy and country , and I therefore welcome the measure outline in the Budget to rebuild Britain . it would be remiss of I not to take this opportunity to congratulate the 47th President of the United States of America , Donald Trump . the fact that President Trump make such a comeback after one term out of office should be a warning to this government : if they continue on a trajectory of burden ordinary working - class people and business financially , and with their anti - life policy , their stay in office will be equally short . the theme for today ' s debate be rebuild Britain , yet in reality the Budget have the potential to rock the very foundation of the United Kingdom . this government ' s Budget have deal the most devastating blow to so many : 10 million pensioner be leave reel from the decision to cut the winter fuel payment , with many now have to choose between heating and eating ; and the WASPI woman have be fail again , as there be no provision to right the wrong that have impact so many woman across the United Kingdom , include in my constituency of Upper Bann . prior to the Budget , I have warn this House that in the space of a month , four caf é s in Portadown in my constituency close their door . this Budget will undoubtedly close many more . the requirement on business to pay additional national insurance contribution will tell a tale . this be not a Budget for work people , despite the rise in the living wage , because that rise will be swallow up by high retail cost due to the rise in national insurance contribution for employer . it be a cause - and - effect algorithm . this Budget hit worker and business . the Prime Minister and his Chancellor have betray our nation ' s farmer , decimate our family farm and jeopardise our proud rural heritage . the introduction of a 20 % inheritance tax on family farm value at over £ 1 million mark an unprecedented and unjust assault on the backbone of our nation . no farm or farmer mean no home - grow food , and rise cost as we have to import food to eat . this policy threaten the survival of family - run farm , force many , especially in Northern Ireland , to consider sell off land or asset to meet tax liability , thereby undermine the continuity of farming business across generation . for Northern Ireland , this tax burden loom heavy . family farm will be dismantle to cover liability , erode the very fabric of rural life . I urge the Government to stop with the spin and , more importantly , stop the farm tax , and to implement policy that support our farmer , rather than hinder they . we must prioritise the sustainability of our agricultural sector to preserve our rural community , and to ensure the prosperity of our nation , and food security , for future generation . some have speak today of the wait for this Budget . depend on our perspective , we wait either 16 week or 14 year , and I be in the latter camp . I be proud to sit behind my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) , the first woman Chancellor in the 800 - year history of the office , as she deliver the Budget last week , and I be even more proud of the Budget that she introduce and what it mean for work people of all age in Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy . one in four child in my constituency be grow up in poverty ; they have be fail by two opposition party . save the Children Scotland say this year that the Scottish Government ' s policy would not " move the dial " on child poverty , and the SNP have consistently fail to meet the target it have set . once again , its member be not here to listen to the debate . because of this Budget , Labour ' s fair repayment rate will mean that more than 1 million of the UK ' s poor household will be £ 420 a year well off from next April . that be expect to benefit 110 , 000 household in Scotland and to begin at last to drive down dependence on emergency food parcel . many of those visit food bank be in work , and the 6 . 7 % increase to the national living wage and the even large increase for 18 to 20 - year - old be an important recognition of the financial difficulty in which many of my constituent find themselves . in Fife alone , more than 8 , 000 low - pay worker stand to benefit from the increase to the national living wage . the mineworker ' pension scheme will return more than £ 1 billion to 112 , 000 former coal worker , 824 of whom be in my constituency . that mean that the people who power our country , who be so badly mistreat for so many year by the Conservatives , will receive a 32 % increase to their annual pension . finally , Labour ' s Budget deliver the large financial settlement to the Scottish Government in the history of devolution , with an extra £ 3 . 4 billion next year alone . it be over to the SNP now to use that competently to fix Scotland ' s precious public service , which the SNP have run down over the past 17 year . in conclusion , this Budget deliver for all age group and all part of my constituency in enact our manifesto commitment to make work pay , to revive our public service and to tackle poverty . I be proud to support this historic Budget . I commend those who have make their maiden speech , and I commend member for their collegiate and warm response . People in North Norfolk will welcome aspect of this Budget , such as the promise of great spending on our national health service , but for all that welcome stability , they have several significant concern . the potential for increase cost for North Norfolk ' s GP surgery and all sort of other care provider through the national insurance rise be a huge worry . the huge challenge face rural constituency from this Budget be the Government ' s family farm tax . I want to share the story of Judith with the House . she be a constituent of mine who live on her farm in Antingham . she and her husband be fifth - generation farmer , and they have rear prize - win cattle on their small farm . their son have be work on the farm with they for the past 40 year . he be also a carer for his father — Judith ' s husband — who be in the advanced stage of Alzheimer ' s disease . Judith be lose sleep over whether her son will be force to sell the farm and its machinery to pay the death duty , which will mean an end to generation of family farm on their land . these be hard - work , honest Norfolk farmer , not multimillionaire or land baron . indeed , many Norfolk farmer have contact I before and since the Budget to share their concern , and I be proud to be stand up for they today . North Norfolk will also feel the brunt of the increase in the bus fare cap . rural public transport be a lifeline for many resident live in our village . it get they to the shop , to the doctor and to see friend and family . ask they to swallow an increase in cost while londoner continue to enjoy a £ 1 . 75 cap be ludicrous . they , along with pensioner in North Norfolk who have already lose the winter fuel allowance , be start to question the change that this Government be offer . I honestly believe that this be a Budget of extremely good intention from Labour , but sadly a handful of misstep have lead many in North Norfolk to question the direction in which we be go . I hope to work with the Government to see how we can ensure that the positive part of this Budget deliver for North Norfolk and remedy the issue cause the most angst . as ever , I will be put North Norfolk resident first , stand up for constituent , raise their concern and ensure that their voice be hear loudly and clearly . family in my constituency have be hit hard in recent year by rise inflation outpace their take - home pay . I be delighted , therefore , that the Chancellor have already recognise the importance of public servant with a fair pay rise of 5 . 5 % , or 6 % for the military , mean that nurse , teacher and service personnel be fairly recognise for their hard work . we be also recognise worker through the rise in the national living wage to £ 12 . 21 an hour , which will make a huge difference to living standard for my constituent in North East Derbyshire , enable more people , particularly young people , to stand on their own two foot . one of the big issue I hear about from constituent be the terrible state of the special educational need and disability provision by Derbyshire county council . the Conservatives have determinedly and deliberately run the council into a dire financial position , leave many child pay the price through long waiting list for assessment and inadequate support , which cost the council even more in fine . I be proud that we in Labour will not accept this Tory neglect of vulnerable child and have allocate an extra £ 1 billion to reform SEND . that show the difference a Labour Government can make to ordinary family . we be fortunate in North East Derbyshire to have a wealth of small business , include retail on our high street , and service business , whether in landscaping or consulting . we in Labour know the value of reward those who be prepared to take a risk and build their own business . I be delighted that the threshold at which employer national insurance contribution be make have be increase to £ 10 , 500 , mean that many small business in North East Derbyshire will see the cost of employ people fall and their ability to grow rise . under Labour , we know the future be bright for business . I declare that I have a financial interest in some of the Budget measure . the Budget be one of broken promise and poorly think out measure for every generation . for child who attend private school , their school will face vat . quite apart from the disruption that will cause , it be unlikely to raise the money the Government suggest , because the wealthy parent have already pay , more student will need to be look after in the state sector , there will be great demand on SEND service and there will be a reduction in employment among staff who previously work at such school . the Prime Minister tell those who go to university that he want to abolish tuition fee . I wonder whether they be surprised that he have put they up . young people want to buy their first home will see stamp duty threshold fall , and many more will pay stamp duty on their first home . what of those work people the Labour party have find it so difficult to define ? first , they have to get to work . those who use the bus will find that the fare have increase by 50 % . those who have commercial pick - up truck will see that the tax on they have go up too . what about the national insurance rise ? it be a tax on every single work person and it have not be think through , as public sector worker will also need to pay the national insurance . the Government say to the Times that they be go to provide mitigation , but the Department of Health and Social Care do not seem to know how much it be go to cost to start with . I ask a write parliamentary question and be tell it will take long to prepare an answer . the Department do not seem to know how much it will cost directly or indirectly . many right hon . and hon . member have talk today about the indirect cost that will face air ambulance , hospice , general practice , opticians , care home , mental health service and outsource laundry , catering and human resource . what about the private hospital deliver waiting list initiative work for the NHS ? they will also need to put up price . will the nurse who work at a private hospital do a proportion of she or his work for the NHS and a proportion for private enterprise be partly recompensed , or not ? it have not be properly think through . we will need the NHS for all those old people , cold and vulnerable in their home , who have have the winter fuel allowance snatch from they — people the Labour Government have let down . if they die , they have the prospect of further taxation on their pension , business asset and family farm . my hon . friend raise the issue of family farm ; do she agree that it have be hugely disingenuous of the Government to repeatedly say they have farmer ' back , only to abandon agricultural property relief at the first opportunity ? I do . as a farmer ' s wife , I particularly recognise the effort of family to work together on farm . it be not the most profitable work , but be a labour of true love . those who need a pint after listen to all the increase in taxation across the generation may be pleased to hear that pint be go to be a penny cheap — woo - hoo — but with business rate relief for pub and other hospitality have go from 75 % to 40 % , and the rise in the minimum wage and in national insurance contribution , the likelihood be that price will not go down at all , lead to further disappointment . the Budget be bad for business , bad for growth , bad for the young and bad for the old . but most of all it be a break of trust . it be a litany of broken promise from the Labour Government to the public . labour voter , like the Prime Minister ' s favourite singer , may be say to themselves , " do you have to do this ? I be think that you could be trust . " it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate on the first Labour Budget in 14 year , and particularly to mention the impact that it will have on my constituent in Kilmarnock and Loudoun , and on Scotland as a whole . this Labour Budget deliver the large settlement for the Scottish Government in the history of devolution . it mean an additional £ 1 . 5 billion for the Scottish Government to spend this financial year and an additional £ 3 . 4 billion next year . this be a Budget that keep our promise to Scotland , end the era of 14 year of Tory austerity , provide billion in investment in public service and prioritise economic growth . the Budget be good for the Scotland Office , good for Scottish Labour and , most importantly , good for the people of Scotland . an aspect of the Budget that be particularly welcome be the reserved spending from the UK Government , which be necessary due to the SNP Administration in Scotland at good spending on their own priority and , at worst , waste money on silly vanity project or legal fee to cover up freedom of information request . the reserved spending will go directly to those community who need it , such as Kilmarnock , the large town in my community . despite the aforementione big financial settlement in the history of devolution , the nationalist have take Scotland in the wrong direction and have be careless with Scotland ' s money . the SNP Administration can not continue to blame other for their own economic incompetence . it be about time that they apologise to the people of Scotland for their mismanagement of public fund , but I will not hold my breath . the problem in scottish public service create by the SNP be not solve by have more money to spend . put simply , the SNP need to get smart at spend it . the SNP waste million on delay discharge and agency staff in our NHS , on ferry that never sail and on pet project that do not deliver for Scotland , all the while decimate local community ' funding , mean that vital service be be lose . while Labour have commit not to increase taxis on work people , the SNP continue to try to use income tax as a substitute for economic growth , with those earn over £ 29 , 000 pay more . labour ' s manifesto commitment to " Brand Scotland " have be realise . an initial investment of £ 750 , 000 will fund trade mission , promote scottish good and service around the world and help scottish business export for the first time . this be the Budget that my constituent have be wait for , the Budget that Scotland have be wait for and the Budget that the UK have be wait for . I fully support it . I will start by welcome a few measure in the Budget , in particular the increase in the carer ' s allowance and the funding for the NHS that be sorely need after the last Government . there be something that I be confused about , though . this , as trail in the labour manifesto , be mean to be a Budget for growth — indeed , that be how the Chancellor introduce it last Wednesday , and the Secretary of State in open the debate today say that the Budget will bring growth — but it do not appear to help small business , which be the engine of our economy , employ over half the people in it and provide 50 % of the revenue . in my constituency of Tunbridge Wells be Adrian Scripps , which grow 10 % of the UK ' s apple crop . James , its manage director , tell I that its labour cost will go up by 8 % , so this year , if he do nothing about it , he will lose 50 % of his profit — and this be a good year , so in a lean year he would lose money . if a business produce 10 % of the UK ' s apple crop be to lose out from the Budget , what do that mean for the wide SME sector ? as an aside , if I be to ask James what he think about the Government ' s policy on Europe , which be essentially a continuation of the previous Government ' s , I could not repeat what he would say in the Chamber . as a result of this Budget , James will have to lay off staff . People lose job do not grow the economy . I have a short time leave , but I would like to talk about Toby , who run the Chapel salon in Tunbridge Wells . he be also the head of the Salon Employers Association , which represent 1 , 900 salon across the United Kingdom . he estimate that more than 25 % of salon may go under as a result of this Budget . cut hair be labour intensive and the margin be wafer thin . business go insolvent do not grow the economy . I understand , and I agree , that we need to invest in our public service — I think the Government have get that bit of the Budget right — but I disagree with who be tax to pay for it . the Liberal Democrats think that we should tax big business , and the Labour Government think that we should tax small business . that be not on . after more than a decade of stagnation , this Budget provide the vital reset that our economy need , not just to address the immediate challenge we face but to lay the foundation for a bright and fair future for all . there be many welcome measure in this Budget , and of particular importance to my constituency will be the increase in the carer ' s allowance weekly earning limit , give carer great flexibility to work and increase their financial security . the additional £ 1 billion for SEND and alternative provision be a vital first step as we begin the work to rebuild the broken system , and to restore trust with parent that education can be inclusive , supportive and break from the adversarial model that be the root of the crisis they face . today , I will focus on housing as we strive to get Britain building once again . have work in the social housing sector for the past 20 year , I be convinced that whether the issue be educational opportunity for child live in overcrowded accommodation , the healthcare need of people with the blight of damp and mould on their bedroom wall , or the cost of living pressure cause by poorly insulate or draughty home , fix the housing crisis be the solution . a safe , decent and affordable home be the cornerstone of a dignified life . when people have decent , safe accommodation that be suit to their need , they have a strong foundation on which to build their life . that , in turn , have a stabilise effect on their family and the wide community . in recent year , we have witness a dramatic rise in house price and soar rental cost , leave many individual and family struggle to secure a roof over their head . in my area , average price have increase by 59 % since 2010 , while earning have increase by only 23 % over the same period . for many young , hard - work people , the dream of home ownership have slip away . that be why the £ 500 million investment in the affordable home programme be so important , as well as the long - term settlement for social rent , to give confidence to our register provider to make their own investment . it be important that we ensure that support be in place for vulnerable population , which be why I welcome the additional £ 233 million allocate to tackle homelessness , bring total spending in this area to £ 1 billion . we believe that every individual deserve a safe and stable place to call home . that be how we transform life and strengthen community . I be proud that we have a Labour Government in office who take the housing crisis seriously — a Government who be dedicate to deliver the change that our country so desperately need , and deliver hope for a bright future for everyone . this government will build a Britain where everyone have a place to call home . rise — order . to ensure that I can get in as many people as possible , there should be no further intervention . in Mid Sussex we do not have many large employer , so small and medium - sized enterprise truly be the backbone of our economy . when watch the Budget statement , Bob from Hurstpierpoint , who be involve in multiple small Mid Sussex business , tell I : " the big loser be small business . " Bob be already have to make contingency plan and think seriously about his workforce go forward . he be right to say that " without thrive small business and sme the ability of local community to thrive be inhibit " . that be true in Mid Sussex and in community up and down the country . another constituent of mine , Ian , who have invest considerably in a local business and employ a number of local people , say that he feel " abandon " . the catastrophic impact of the decision will be not just on employer but on employee — none more than those in Mid Sussex GP and care business who have write to I since the Budget . Niki , from Hassocks , a director in a social care organisation support adult with learn disability , raise two point . first , the national insurance change will have a disastrous impact on the sector , with social care provider already struggle . hit in recent year by covid , interest rate hike , rise in the national living wage and the cost of living crisis , many be teeter on the brink . secondly , social care provider will feel the Government ' s measure acutely and disproportionately . they be people business , so almost their entire cost base be hit by the national insurance increase . they employ many people on low wage , so shift the national insurance threshold to £ 5 , 000 have a huge impact . Katie , a Lindfield GP , say that the change would directly undermine patient access and patient care . " in our area , " she say , " there be dwindle partner number , old estate , difficulty recruit staff . we partner aren ' t sure how long we can keep provide increase healthcare for . " my constituent Tom , a gp partner , tell I that because practice do not charge patient , they do not have the option to put up their price as a business might . he be try to digest how he feel about partner ' bear the brunt of these change . GPs have tell I that they be not entitle to claim employment allowance , and we need clarity on that essential point . this be why the Liberal Democrats be call for GPs and care provider to be exempt from national insurance rise . when those who employ we , care for we and choose to base their business in Mid Sussex feel " insult , " abandon " and " unsupported " , 1 fail to see how this decision be the right one . the Budget speak to the need and ambition of my constituency , support our community in way that matter deeply . it be a Budget that deliver on infrastructure , on industry and on opportunity to keep our town and village thrive . on transport , the message be clear : we can not afford to leave our community disconnect . I have long be vocal about the press need for upgrade to the A50 / a500 corridor , a critical route link Uttoxeter and surround village to the rest of the midland and beyond . the road have need vital improvement for year , not just to reduce congestion but to ensure the safety and reliability on which our resident and business depend . the conservative party have fail to invest in our infrastructure — a fact well know to Branston resident , who now face a crumble bridge and road across my constituency riddle with pothole . give this Government ' s increase focus on local road and public transport , I be optimistic that our ongoing effort will soon deliver the change that my constituent deserve . my area have a proud industrial heritage , and the Budget provide a lifeline to manufacturing area . with the first industrial strategy since 2017 , we will finally be take a long - term approach to training , skill and investment . this mean that our skilled worker and young people in Staffordshire will not have to leave for opportunity elsewhere , but will instead find they exactly where they should be , back by investment in green technology and clean energy initiative such as Great British Energy . these be not just big - ticket item ; they be the job , training and progress that people in my constituency need . then there be public procurement , with our commitment to back british firm and british job with public tender . with new regulation require fast payment and favour british firm , we be see tangible support for the small and medium - sized business that be the backbone of our society . we must buy more british , and build more british too . we will use the purchasing power of the british state to invest in our community . by buy from local company we be invest in local company , and by invest in local company we invest in local job , which mean more money for our community — include community like mine in Anglesey , Shobnall and the heath . that be real levelling up , not the pale imitation attempt by the conservative party . it be deliver on promise that we make , not break they . this Budget be a blueprint for a Britain rebuild . it be not just about growth ; it be about renewal . it be about support the spirit of innovation and resilience in every part of the country . it be about remind every family in Burton and every business in Uttoxeter that they be not just part of the economy ; they be part of Britain ' s future , too . thank you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker — I be not expect you to do so . may I associate myself with the remark make by my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) apropos farm and farmer ? Madam Deputy Speaker , you — I can call you " you " — have hear I talk about health service in the remote far north of Scotland more time than I care to remember . member refer to the NHS as be on its back , which be nowhere true than in my constituency . the people in Caithness and Sutherland know that when they come to put a cross on the ballot paper in July , which be why we get the result that we do . I would say to my hon . friend who represent other scottish constituency that that be true elsewhere , too . two doctor in my constituency , Dr Alison Brooks in Thurso and Dr Ewen Pearson in Wick , have make it very clear to I what the effect of the increase in employer ' national insurance will mean . I do not want to bore the Chamber , because we have hear a lot about that already , but the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) , who be not in his place , refer to possible mitigation , and I hope that that will prove to be the case . otherwise , we could face the diminution of service and even find that job will go , which would be totally and completely unacceptable . I be sit in the Chamber when the Chancellor announce the £ 3 . 4 billion for the Scottish Government , and I hear nine soft thud as nine chin hit the deck behind I . the SNP have the old , wail dirge ready : " it ' s Westminster what do it . we ain ' t get the cash . " oh ! none of they be here . what a shame ! well , I be just go to say what other member have say . I hope that the SNP Scottish Government get off their backside and spend the money properly . there be no hiding now , and there be no excuse — they have get the dosh . Madam Deputy Speaker , how many time have you hear I talk about mum have to go on a more than 200 - mile return trip to give birth in the middle of winter ? be we joke ? it be amazing that something dreadful have not happen . the doctor I speak to about national insurance contribution tell I that gynae service in the far north of Scotland be on their knee . Dr Pearson tell I about a mum who have to wait two year to get a hysterectomy . be that not a disgrace ? in the county of Caithness , there be not one psychologist — a damn fact , because we know that mental health be such a problem . there be no hiding . the Scottish Government should get on with the day job and sort out the NHS in my constituency and the rest of Scotland . they have no excuse . in the time allow , I will confine myself to a few comment on the Budget ' s financial settlement for the Ministry of Justice . the MOJ be one of the small Departments in budgetary term but have suffer the large cut in proportion to its size . give its role in keep we safe , provide a high - quality judicial and court system , and offer access to justice that be not dependent on mean , the previous Government ' s action be not just regrettable , but reckless . I be , therefore , please to see substantial real - term investment for the first time in 14 year . it be not enough to resolve all the crisis , but it be a start in turn thing around . total MOJ spending will rise from £ 11 . 9 billion in the last financial year to £ 13 . 8 billion in the next — an average real - term increase of 5 . 6 % a year — and the Law officer ' budget will increase by 7 . 5 % a year over the same period . some of that funding have rightly be direct at prison and probation , with £ 2 . 3 billion to be spend on new prison , half a billion pound on maintenance and security budget , and the same on recruit new staff . however , the Budget make no mention of civil and criminal legal aid , or of additional money to address the unsustainably large court backlog . this year ' s settlement fund 106 , 500 Crown court sitting day — not enough to address the backlog , which grow ever large . trial be be list for 2027 , and there be similar logjam in the civil and family court and tribunal . as of 4 November , the prison population be 85 , 794 . prison be run at almost full capacity and the prison population be project to increase to 94 , 000 by March 2025 , and up to 106 , 000 by March 2027 . prison be in a dire state . prisoner be be hold in unsafe , crowded condition on an estate plague by widespread disrepair and severe maintenance backlog . fire safety standard on the prison estate be woefully poor , and we have to ensure that there be a plan for probation to grow in response to measure to reduce prisoner number . legal aid be another area of acute pressure . will any of the new money allocate to the Department be spend on legal aid ? failure to invest will deny access to justice , and it would not be possible to tackle the grow court backlog without further investment in criminal and civil legal aid . I be pleased that the Minister say yesterday , in reply to a question from I in the House , that there will be announcement in the next few week on legal aid . this be an excellent start , but there be a long way to go to repair our broken justice system . it be a pleasure and a privilege to listen to some excellent maiden speech . as a Welsh Liberal Democrat , I be pleased to play my part in constructive opposition . I want to see thing get do for Wales , and there be certainly part of this Budget that we welcome — for example , the increase in the carer ' s allowance that my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) and the Liberal Democrats have campaign so hard for . around 10 % of the Welsh population be estimate to be unpaid carer , and many of they will see a real difference thank to this initiative . we also thank the Government for listen to our call for extra funding for the NHS and social care . it be now over to the Welsh Government to ensure that all consequential money be spend on health and social care , which have not always happen in the past . with 800 , 000 people stick on waiting list in Wales , which be nearly a third of the population , this could not be more urgent . we want to see further action on social care . some 50 % of bed in Powys be currently block , and the patient be unable to be discharge to go back to their home and family . that be something that must end . fix our health service be key , and it be for this reason that we have call for the national insurance hike to be remove for care provider and GPs . I be proud to have mining heritage in my family , and I welcome the boost to former miner ' pension , but confusion remain over the future of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme , which have over 41 , 000 member , many of they across south Wales . further clarification have not be provide so far for those former miner . time be run out for many of they , and we urgently call on the Government to provide some reassurance to they . we have less favourable view on other element of the Budget , include the change to agricultural property relief , which be cause a great deal of genuine anxiety across my constituency and Wales as a whole . if the Labour Government do not change course , they will be throw family farm to the wolf in the same way that other industry have be let down in the past . the impact will be feel not just by young farmer unable to take on a viable farm business , but in wide consequence . the entire rural economy be dependent on farming income , so the change will threaten job across Wales . we do not understand why the Government be not raise the revenue from other source . why should Welsh farmer bear the brunt of repair the economic damage cause by the Conservatives ? it be a privilege to speak in this debate follow the first Labour Budget in over 14 year and the first in 800 year to be give by a woman . this might not be an achievement that the Leader of the Opposition think be of any note , but I can tell she and the House that in my constituency of Cardiff West it be a proud moment , and one that woman and girl in my constituency take great pride in . after 14 year of chaos and instability , this Labour Government have make their choice know in this Budget . this Labour Government have choose to deal with the £ 22 billion black hole leave by the Tories , and to be honest about it with the british public . this Labour Government have choose to stabilise our economy so that we can grow our economy . this Labour Government have choose to invest in our public service and to end the austerity of the last 14 year . and this Labour Government have choose to support and work with our devolved government , rather than denigrate they . despite our dire economic inheritance from the Tories , the Chancellor have make some tough choice while hold true to our party ' s value in deliver a budget that support and invest in work people throughout our region and nation . this Budget have deliver for my constituency and for Wales more generally . this be the big Budget since devolution . it provide a record £ 1 . 7 billion spending boost for the Welsh Government to support public service . as a result , my constituent will see the benefit both through the Barnett formula and through direct spending . I be also proud that the Budget have set aside £ 100 million to support steel community , both through the transition board and through the town centre regeneration fund . for the first time ever , it allocate funding to make coal tip safe , with £ 25 million in new money . but let we not forget why the choice in this Budget be necessary . the Tories crash the economy , and we have to fix it . in so do , we have ensure that work people will not face high taxis in their payslip , and we be increase the national living wage by 6 . 7 % . when we talk about choice , let we not forget the choice that the Conservatives have make . they have choose to oppose this Budget , which mean they be oppose to the investment that will grow our economy . they be oppose to invest in and reform our public service , which can only mean that they remain committed to continue austerity . I do not even know where to begin with the Tories ' disgraceful position of allocate no money whatsoever to their promise to pay compensation to the victim of the contaminated blood and Post Office Horizon scandal . my constituent Sue Sparkes and other have fight this injustice tirelessly . this Budget show the difference be make by the Labour Governments in Westminster and Cardiff , and I celebrate it . the return tide of populism that we have see today be a sobering reminder of what can happen when people feel that the system have not be deliver for they . this reality make fiscal event , such as a Budget deliver by a new government , so critical . a Budget be more than just an annual accounting practice ; it represent an opportunity to reassure our community that they can trust we — all of we — to recognise their need , aspiration and concern . a Budget be an opportunity to meet those need and to inoculate our community and our country against the populist contagion that have invade yet another host today . against that backdrop , I will shamelessly share some of Eastbourne ' s need . Eastbourne need support to tackle homelessness , which have mean that our food bank be the country ' s busy last year . I therefore welcome the £ 230 million announce in the Budget for homelessness prevention , and I hope the East Sussex float support service can benefit from it , but we have be let down by the lack of emergency support to help council like mine with the unsustainable cost of temporary accommodation , as so eloquently describe by the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . Eastbourne also need service at our local hospital , where I be bear , to be protect . I welcome the NHS investment announce in the Budget , but I be disappointed that the status of investment in our hospital via the new hospital programme have still not be confirm . this mean that local mum , who in many case be have to travel more than 20 mile to have their baby , be still unclear about what investment their hospital will get . our significant population of local pensioner and I have plead with the Government to review their decision to remove the winter fuel allowance from many pensioner who need it . it be unacceptable that those call have be ignore . our local business need additional support to thrive , yet the increase in employer nic will make it hard for they to survive — especially many of our hospitality business , which I be proud to represent as a patron of the Eastbourne Hospitality Association . Eastbourne ' s WASPI woman , lead by Angela Boas , deserve compensation , which be miss from the Budget . Eastbourne ' s SEND family , support by advocate like Kate Humphries , must benefit from the £ 1 billion SEND funding that be announce . overall , the Government have make progress , but they must go far to reassure my community that they will deliver for Eastbourne on all the count I have describe . failure to deliver will leave my town more vulnerable to the vice of great hardship , and more expose to the venom of populist predator . I congratulate member on both side of the House on their excellent maiden speech today . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate . for far too long , people in north Wales have suffer because of stagnant wage , fall living standard and rise cost . that be the legacy of the last Conservative Government and why our country have vote for change . last week , we see a budget that turn the page on an era of unfunded policy and stick - plaster politic . last week ' s Budget be an honest Budget , which will fix the foundation of our economy and improve living standard for people in community like mine . I thank the Chancellor for this historic Budget and what it mean for Wales . the Chancellor have deliver a record £ 21 billion to the Welsh Government to invest in public service , with £ 1 . 7 billion in consequential through the Barnett formula , but there be more to welcome . like my hon . friend the Members for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) and for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) , before I come to this House , I work mostly for and with small business . many measure in the Budget will be welcome by business in my constituency of Bangor Aberconwy . support for pub and small brewery from cut duty and provide additional relief will mean brilliant brewer , such as Wild Horse , in Llandudno , and Cwrw Nant , will be support to thrive . the continue freeze on fuel duty will be welcome not only by those who live in rural community and depend on their car , but by logistic business , such as Baynes & Son in Bangor . the increase in employment allowance be also welcome . perhaps most importantly , more than 70 , 000 people in Wales will receive a pay rise next year as a result of the increase in the minimum wage , mean more people have more money in their pocket to spend in our local economy , include in our shop and caf é s and on our high street . I be proud that we now have two Labour Governments work hand in hand in the interest of the people of Wales and the UK . this Budget be not just about rebuild our country ; it be about rebuild trust in politic . nowhere be that more clear than in the return of a constructive relationship between this UK Government and our Welsh Government in Cardiff . that be the difference a Labour Government and a Labour Budget make . this Budget deliver for Wales and the people of Bangor Aberconwy . we can be proud of the Budget and I know we will see the benefit it will bring in the year to come . it be a pleasure to follow so many excellent maiden speech this afternoon . the Budget mark a seminal moment in the parliamentary calendar . irrespective of party politic , there be a collective desire that any Budget provide the foundation for our great nation to succeed . my constituency of Solihull West and Shirley , with its range and breadth of business , be an important economic driver for the west midland . have sit down with 17 business leader last Friday , and have visit multiple business in the lead up to the Budget , it be important that I convey their balanced and market - lead view . business look for stability . they want to understand the Government ' s growth and economic plan for an industrial strategy . however , as one ceo describe it , the Budget represent private industry versus public sector , employer against employee . one can not have well - fund public service if there be no private industry to pay for they ; one can not have high employment rate if there be no private business to spur job creation ; and one can not have economic growth if private investment be drive out of this country . this Budget have bring business more complexity and uncertainty . as a consequence of last Wednesday ' s announcement , business in my constituency have already announce recruitment freeze . by now , the Chancellor will have receive my letter , send yesterday and sign by approximately 40 member of this House and the other place , regard the impact that her new national insurance contribution policy will have on general practitioner , dentist , hospice and care home . these vital service will be force to decrease staff number , thereby create further pressure on the NHS and public service . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way . [ interruption . ] government member do not like to hear this . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . not when an intervention be happen . every Labour Government in history have end with high unemployment than when they begin . from the look of these measure , do it not seem that this one will be exactly the same ? rise — order . although the hon . Gentleman will be very grateful for the intervention , may I remind member that time be tight ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his intervention , and I agree with he entirely . I be mindful of the tightness of time , Madam Deputy Speaker . will the Chancellor reconsider the exemption list , to protect the vital service I mention , much as she reconsider when it come to vat on continuity of education allowance payment ? we all understand how much money the Chancellor hope to raise , but I ask today that she set out a realistic plan to raise the money . what be her plan to grow the economy ? gdp growth prediction be low than inflation rise prediction , which effectively mean the economy shrink over the next five year . finally , I ask the Minister to set a firm date for the publication of the Government industrial strategy , so that business have stability , rather than be on the receive end of the Chancellor ' s smash - and - grab tax raid . let I welcome the first Labour Budget in 14 year , and the first ever deliver by a woman . the Budget ' s positive intervention for bassetlaw have the vibe of the late , great , Ian Dury ' s song , " reason to be cheerful " . the song have wonderful lyric list the joy in life ; it be write in response to his band mate survive a brutal electric shock . well , this Budget be labour ' s response to the shock of the Truss mini - Budget , and 14 year of neglect and no economic plan . in bassetlaw , we now have significant support for UK fusion energy research to build on the UK ' s position as global leader in sustainable energy . build the first fusion power plant in Bassetlaw will take we to the next generation of carbon - neutral energy creation , provide huge opportunity to develop talent , skill , local job and wealth , and to build on business . the massive injection of fund into the NHS mean that the waiting list at Bassetlaw hospital will be tackle head - on , with a crack team from London hospital go in to get our operating theatre open seven day a week , and drive those wait time down . People be wait too long for the operation that they desperately need . they want to be in work and bring home a wage . that be central to rebuild our economy and lift people out of poverty . this be our government put join - up thinking into action . I welcome the fact that in Bassetlaw , 2 , 500 retire mineworker will see their pension go up by £ 30 a week , as we deliver on our manifesto commitment , but it do not end there : our Government will continue to review surplus sharing arrangement , and I call for this to include those retire miner in my area who be in the scheme for supervisor and overseer . they can not be ignore . they pay into an identical scheme and they deserve equal treatment . when bassetlaw people tell I that they be too scared to go into our town centre , I promise that I would take action . I welcome the funding to crack down on the organise gang that target retailer . I welcome , too , the Government scrap the law that give immunity for low - value shoplifting — an immunity grant by the Conservative Government in 2014 . the Tories talk the talk , but they do not walk the walk . they be all hot air , promise and no delivery . whether it be the challenge of get a gp or a dentist appointment , the challenge of sort out the funding for flood alleviation scheme in Retford and Worksop , or the failure to stop Doncaster airport closing , the Tories have leave it to Labour to pick up the piece , to sort out their mess and to get Britain back on course . I congratulate all of today ' s maiden speaker on their excellent contribution . in her Budget statement last week , the Chancellor announce a £ 1 billion increase for special educational need and disability . any additional funding be of course very welcome , especially in Surrey , where the SEND system be in crisis , but it be important to put that figure in context . estimate suggest that the national SEND budget be run an annual deficit of £ 4 billion , rise to nearly £ 6 billion in 2025 . the whole system be be save from complete collapse thank only to a statutory override — an accountancy trick that allow council to keep these deficit off their book until March 2026 . what happen after that no one yet know , but the National Audit Office have warn that the UK ' s SEND system teeter on the brink of collapse . Surrey county council alone be carry an eye - water £ 118 million SEND deficit , so while the Chancellor ' s additional £ 1 billion investment may sound promising , it really only buy a little time . a few week ago , I spend a morning with a group of nearly 70 parent , each of whom have a child or child with special educational need . many of those child have be unable to attend school for month , and in some case year , due to the lack of an appropriate setting or support . parent be be force into become full - time carer , with one or both parent give up pay employment to take on caring responsibility . each year , thousand of private and public sector worker be lose from the economy because SEND provision be fail child and parent alike . parent tell I that when they be not educate their child , they work late into the night administer appeal process , gather evidence for tribunal , and seek help from charity and agency that might just help to unlock the broken SEND system for they . that be the daily pattern for many thousand of household across the country , yet the experience can feel crushingly lonely . the SEND system pull work people out of their career and out of the workforce , while permanently limit the life and career chance of child with incredible potential . those human and economic cost be barely account for in the Government ' s budget - setting . if this be indeed a Government who prioritise economic growth and seek to invest in work people , I encourage they to see reform and proper funding of special educational need as a vital component of their national mission . when I be out knock on door and listen to fellow resident at the weekend , many people in Winterbourne say how pleased they be to see we begin the change that have be so desperately need by so many for so long . from our NHS and our school to our industry and our road , this Labour Budget be focus on fix the foundation , deliver change that matter , and rebuild Britain . after 14 year of decline and neglect , simple thing have become much hard than they should be , and although people know that it will take time to deliver the scale of change that Britain need , we now have fund for 40 , 000 more NHS appointment a week , and money to rebuild school that be crumble around our child and to start to improve SEND support , so that every child can thrive , and to make life fair for carer who look after love one . this be a Labour Government deliver as promise . the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency be a rich tapestry of town and village that have strong local character and great national and international impact . I be proud that our community be at the heart of aerospace in the UK . we be the home of both Concorde and the future of flight , and major company , support by brilliant sme , be innovate every day to reduce emission and lead the way in british enterprise . I know that local people will join I in welcome our Government ' s investment of £ 975 million in the aerospace sector in the Budget . that will fund vital research and development for the late aerospace technology in our region and beyond . that be important because rebuild Britain be also about restore Britain ' s leadership and place on the world stage . we have a strong defence sector locally , include MOD Abbey Wood , so I welcome the £ 2 . 9 billion uplift in defence funding , in addition to the funding for Ukraine for as long as it be need . our support must never waver . as the first ever woman to represent my constituency , I note what an important moment it be to see the first woman Chancellor in our country ' s history stand to deliver the Budget . representation matter , as do deliver change . this Budget do what our new Labour Government be elect to do : it set the path for rebuild Britain . I look forward to support those effort on behalf of my community , who elect I to deliver that change . certainly , the Budget have be on the mind of many of my constituent . it be even a topic of conversation with the owner of Gurkha Sunkoshi when I collect an indian takeaway last night . I will say more about the impact on small business such as his shortly , but let I start with the positive . it be certainly excellent to see the Government commit to NHS investment , which have be the subject of a key liberal Democrat campaign , include in my constituency . I also welcome the compensation for victim of the infected blood and Post Office Horizon scandal . I agree with colleague who have highlight the point that the increase in carer ' s allowance and SEND provision be welcome , but do not go far enough . nevertheless , there be much cause for concern for my constituent , particularly small business owner . GP and dental surgery be concern about rise cost as a result of increase to employer national insurance contribution and the minimum wage . alas , so far , they have not receive assurance of additional funding to match the liability that they will face . of course , they run the risk of need to reduce staff recruitment or even lay off staff , which could add to pressure on the local health service . the same issue apply to the wide small business and high - tech sector in my constituency — include indian restaurant . my constituency have be assess by the Startup Coalition as No . 16 in the country for new business , not least thank to our high - tech business park : Milton park , Culham campus and the Harwell science and innovation campus . those business will be worried about the ability to grow because of the cost that they face . many of my colleague have highlight concern about the propose family farm tax . the Liberal Democrats call for an extra £ 1 billion a year in support for farming community . it be on transport policy that the Budget most disappoint . perhaps , give the propose increase in the bus fare cap and the above - inflation increase to rail fare , the Government be under the impression that work family only use car . a season ticket from Didcot in my constituency to London , plus travelcard , already cost around £ 7 , 000 a year . those policy undermine the Government ' s state objective on economic growth , climate change and reduce congestion . I also regret that there be no commitment to local rail scheme in my constituency , such as a new station at Wantage and Grove , and electrification between Didcot and Oxford . today ' s election result in the United States emphasise the importance of manage the economy and public service so that people feel listened to and support . my fear be that some of the Budget measure will have the opposite effect , but I genuinely wish the Government success , and hope that they will listen to and address the many concern raise by the Budget . I congratulate hon . member who have deliver maiden speech today on their thoughtful contribution . this Budget mark the end of an era of austerity inflict by the Conservative party over the past 14 year , during which time take - home pay be cut to the bone and our public service almost reach existential crisis . in Scotland , we have the trouble of two fail government . the SNP promise scandinavian - type public service , while the conservative party promise north american level of taxation . the result be break public service and a complete misuse of taxpayer money . I be proud of many thing in the Budget , but I be most proud that next April the national minimum wage will rise to £ 12 . 21 an hour . that will lift the earning of 200 , 000 people in Scotland and 3 , 000 people in my Glasgow South West constituency . this Labour Government will ensure that work pay , and that it be secure and dignified . the Budget continue and increase direct investment in Scotland through the innovation accelerator programme , which support 11 project in Glasgow . it also establish Brand Scotland , and support scottish trade abroad by contribute £ 750 , 000 to the Scotland Office . this be the big uplift in Scotland ' s funding through Barnett consequential since the beginning of devolution in 1999 , with £ 3 . 4 billion of additional funding . within that funding , Labour have increase the overall education budget by 3 . 5 % in real term and increase local government funding by 3 . 2 % , so SNP - run Glasgow city council have no excuse to be cut 450 teaching post over the next three year . it must not rob young Glaswegians of their future , because theirs be the contribution that will make our economy grow . conservative Members use to tell we frequently that they believe in Britain , and SNP Members — conspicuous by their absence today — use to tell we that they be strong for Scotland . what well embodiment of strength and of that belief than invest in our infrastructure and our people ? we on the Labour Benches have make our decision ; it be now up to they whether they back Britain or not . in this Budget debate , I be go to focus on the massive disconnect between the Government ' s talk about growth and investment and what the OBR consider will be the outcome . sadly , we can want something and talk about it , but if we do not enact the policy , we be not go to get it . that will hit everybody across the country really hard , particularly the most vulnerable . I be see that reality in my constituency , where a lot of employer be relocate plant abroad to the EU , rather than relocate and grow those job in the UK . that be not just happen in my constituency : very likely , it be happen in every other Member ' s constituency as well . that be a huge problem for our public service , which be ultimately underwrite by our taxis . as a result of this Budget , real private consumption as a share of GDP be set to fall by 0 . 4 % by 2029 , and real business investment be set to fall by 0 . 6 % . it be not I say that : it be the OBR . that be very different from what the Secretary of State have tell we . it leave real gdp growth low in the outer year , in the 2027 - 29 forecast — again , not my word , but the OBR ' s . as per OBR datum , Brexit be cut our long - run productivity by 4 % , and be cut the overall trade intensity of our economy by 15 % in the long term . the UK have a free option to boost economic growth at zero fiscal cost by restore a close economic relationship with Europe . however , although not a single person on Labour ' s Front Bench even vote to leave the EU , we find ourselves with a Government support daft conservative economic policy that nobody in the country vote for , such as remain outside the custom union and the single market . even before Trump ' s win today , we as a country could not afford to be take these wrong decision . continue to do so , wilfully and in direct contradiction of the fact , be neglectful and show a disregard for the wellbeing of our country . I urge the Government to change course . this Budget be about rebuild Britain after 14 year of incompetence , negligence and chaos . conservative Members — all four of they who be leave in the Chamber today — can not even bring themselves to apologise for the inheritance that they leave , not just to our government but to the country as a whole . they should have spend the past few month reflect on why , as we can see before we , the country reject they so profoundly . instead , they engage in yet more infighting and ask people not to believe their own eye . even now , they tell people that the economy have never have it so good — that they should ignore their deplete bank account , the increase mortgage rate they have to pay , and the state of our high street . they talk as if our hospital and our school be not leave to crumble ; as if they do not savage local government finance and the service so many people rely on ; and as if the criminal justice system have not be push to the point of ruin . even when they admit to the desperate state of mental health , special educational need , dentistry , social care , homelessness and poverty , they talk as if those thing have nothing to do with they . it be always someone else ' s fault . this Budget end the cycle of conservative decline and restore hope that thing can get well . just like our NHS , Britain might have be break by the Conservatives , but we be not yet beat . that be underline by the choice this Budget make — not always easy , but necessary : the choice to protect pension with the triple lock , the choice not to raise national insurance , income tax and vat for work people , the choice to unfreeze income tax threshold so that people have more money in their pocket , the choice to increase carer ' s allowance , the choice to raise the minimum wage to record level , the choice to fund thousand of new home for family in town such as Ipswich and far beyond , and the choice to start rebuild our NHS , our school and our infrastructure . those be the choice we have make to fix the foundation of the economy and our public service , to invest in Britain ' s future and to deliver the change that people vote for . I return to a specific issue that have be mention many time in this debate , special educational need . that be now very much a national crisis , but it be one that we have be battle in Suffolk for the good part of a decade . a £ 1 billion injection into SEND be much need as our Government look to repair a broken system starve of funding , resource and focus . no , money alone will not solve the multitude of issue face family desperately try to get the support their child need — we need bold and wide - range reform too — but new specialist staff and place do not come free , and unfunded reform be a complete non - starter . SEND can not be treat as a Cinderella service any long . the new funding be a much - need statement of intent from this Government , and one that will be welcome by family in Ipswich and Suffolk and across the country . this first Budget be about clean up the mess of the last 14 year — five Prime Ministers and seven Chancellors — and repair Britain ' s foundation . it be about invest in Britain and back it to succeed , and ensure that when we need public service , they be there for we . it be an important first step . but my goodness , the conservative party have make an incredible mess . during the general election campaign , my team and I speak to thousand of people across Telford . every conversation be about decay — our crumble NHS , the struggle of our education system and the breaking of our council service , the fact that we do not see enough police officer on our street , high street in need of support , a SEND system that be let child down , road and transport system that do not work for work people — I could go on . there be a real sense that the Government have give up on govern and make many people believe that there be no hope , and that decline and doom , chaos and corruption be the norm . this first Budget be a watershed moment . it mark the return to a state that care about make sure people can get the medical treatment they need when they need it , that they feel safe on our local street and that they can afford housing . the contrast between the hope that this Budget offer and the bleak future I describe under the Conservatives be strike . I be particularly pleased that this Budget have deliver a real - term fund increase of more than 3 % for local government next year . before I come to this place , I be a council leader and the chair of the cross - party Local Government Association — I declare an interest on the basis that I be now the honorary vice - president of that organisation . every councillor , regardless of political persuasion , will talk about the last 14 year , with council of all political stripe go bankrupt almost every single year . the LGA have call this Budget " a step in the right direction " , but after 14 year of stumble in the wrong direction , it be just the start of a long journey back . that journey must start with the reform of local government . the Government recognise the urgent need to give local government leader more skin in the game , and I look forward to see more reform in that regard . like other hon . member , I welcome the fact that the national living wage be increase , which will impact 4 , 000 people in my constituency . this Budget be pro - growth , pro - business , pro - worker , pro - family , pro - public sector , and it be give people a Britain they can be proud of . this Budget truly mark an historic shift , with real step to rebuild Britain for last change . after 14 year of conservative mismanagement this Budget bring hope , with a commitment to rebuild and restore fairness for working family , essential worker and vulnerable community . I be especially pleased that the Budget have put work people at the forefront by increase the national living wage and ensure that they will not face high taxis in their payslip . that will benefit thousand of work family in Erdington who have be hit hard by rise cost , stagnant wage and insecure work . the food bank at six Ways church and Spitfire Support Services be heartbreake reminder of the last Government ' s legacy , but now hard - work people be finally get the fair pay they deserve . as a nurse of 25 year , I be deeply hearten by the commitment to our NHS . year of underfunding have leave it struggle , and the Budget ' s £ 25 . 6 billion investment be a lifeline , promise timely , quality care . that funding will help to reduce the painful waiting list that have leave many in my constituency suffer as they wait month , if not year , for essential care . community safety be also a priority . trader on Erdington High Street have speak about the rise in low - value shoplifting . I be grateful that the Government have pledge to scrap immunity for such crime , restore accountability and safety . education be the foundation of a fairer society . the Budget ' s investment in the core school budget and free breakfast club be exactly what our school need in order to support young people and prepare they for success . today we reject the chaos and cut of the past . this Budget restore integrity , fairness and hope , offer a path that allow we to invest in people , protect family and rebuild community for a strong Britain . I be proud to support a budget that work for Erdington , Kingstanding , Castle Vale and South Oscott and for every community that deserve well . the mission of any Budget should be to ensure that the need of all people in this country be meet and to shape our economy towards that end . after 14 year of Conservative - lead government , working - class people do not have the standard of living they deserve . the Tories have push child into poverty , normalise low - pay , insecure work and increase economic inequality . meanwhile , the public sector have be decimate by austerity . while the rich pay to go private , million of people be stick on NHS waiting list , their pain increase and their quality of life diminish . so I welcome a Budget that include high spending for public service and that fund our NHS and our school . the increase to the minimum wage and carer ' s allowance will make a tangible difference to many people ' s life . the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme will finally be rectify , benefit thousand of former miner across Nottinghamshire . and there be more — but there be also element of this Budget that worry I . disabled people fear that the target of deliver saving through reform to the disability benefit system will mean that people be exclude from the support they need . it be shameful that people have be force into poverty by the welfare cut of previous government ; some have even lose their life thank to a system that , all too often , seek to punish rather than to help . we must do thing differently . we must fund a social security net that give everyone , whether in work or not , the resource they need to live a decent life . we must also prioritise end child poverty , as previous Labour government have , so I be disappoint the Chancellor have not move to scrap the inhumane two - child benefit limit . meanwhile , the rich 1 % of Britons have £ 2 . 8 trillion between they . although the Budget will modestly increase their contribution to our public finance , we must go far to make the super - rich pay their fair share . we should introduce a wealth tax , tax earning from wealth at the same rate as wage . I be confident that this Budget take important step to deliver change , but be it at the scale we need after the devastation cause by the conservative party ? I be not so sure . I say that not to undermine the Budget , which stand in welcome contrast to the last 14 year , but to push for even great ambition , because the job of a Back - Bench Government MP be to tell their party when it need to go far . trump ' s election be a warning to we here : if people do not see their life improve , the populist right stand to benefit . so let we build on the good work our Government have start in the first 100 day , ensure that every person have a decent standard of living and tackle the inequality that continue to blight our society . as the Business Secretary and many hon . friend have say , the central mission of this Government be to get the economy grow after year of stagnation . fourteen year of poor economic management and short - term decision making be writ large in my town centre in Bournemouth West and in high street up and down the country , as my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) set out so powerfully . we see this in our creak infrastructure and the crumble school that my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) mention and the pothole - ride street we drive our car on . while the public make their view on the state of the country very clear on 4 July , the conservative party seem still to be in denial . this Budget give we the opportunity to turn a page , fix the foundation and rebuild our country . I welcome the Business Secretary and Chancellor ' s focus on investment . my constituency of Bournemouth West be a microcosm of the UK ' s diverse economy . just last week I visit a new manufacturing plant whose product have " make in Britain " proudly brand all over they . we have a vibrant retail , hospitality and leisure sector and while there be some concern about rise cost it be give confidence by the Government ' s focus on growth and get money back into people ' s pocket . we have strong education and finance sector and a burgeon tech and creative industry sector , and I be pleased to see support for these industry reflect in our industrial strategy , give they certainty over the long term . underpin all of this be our people . this government ' s Budget will benefit the 8 , 300 people in my constituency on the minimum wage and the 1 , 880 people in receipt of , or eligible for , car ' s allowance , and the 30 % of child who live in poverty and their family will benefit from the investment in our school , hospital and affordable home to live in . healthy , happy and more secure worker and constituent be good for business ; it be good for growth and good for our economy . I wish to make one point on infrastructure . my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) mention that when we knock on door people always bring up our public service and the NHS , and they do , but every good constituency MP know that pothole be the bane of everybody ' s life , so I welcome the £ 500 million for pothole announce in the Budget . we can not achieve sustainable growth without a solid foundation with stable public finance and public service that benefit everybody . this be what we be do with this Budget and I look forward to support it today . several of the previous speaker , include the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) , for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) and for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) , express concern about growth and productivity and I hope to draw on my previous experience work in industry to set their mind at rest , but we first need to acknowledge the dire starting point and the damage do both to our economy and to business confidence by the last Government . I know from my time spend in industry that over the last decade and a half our country have lose out in the race for international investment from a combination of political uncertainty and a long - stand indifference to industrial policy . I listen carefully to the word of the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) and I think he must have read a different Budget from I . the Budget I read commit we to public sector investment of over £ 100 billion over five year , which along with our modern industrial strategy set the scale of the Government ' s ambition for increase prosperity and security across the whole of our country . several member , include the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) and for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , mention small business . these be the very business which stand to benefit from our industrial strategy as our new approach to industry and manufacturing see the private sector crowding in investment , produce well - pay job and export that will support our small business in supply chain . this will also reverse the tide of deindustrialisation , a frankly bizarre policy of inaction enact by conservative government over many year that have leave much of our industry , include steel , chemical and ceramic , mention by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , at a serious disadvantage . it seem clear that to grow our economy we need to boost productivity and simply build more factory , but I know as an advocate of industrial strategy that this position be not a settle one , particularly in the party opposite . that be in big contrast to the collaborative approach of this Government , who work pragmatically with business leader . we have hear some warm word from conservative about industrial strategy , include from Opposition Front Benchers , but they perhaps have not have time to consult with their new leader , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , who have describe such policy as part of the law of diminish return . have see my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade secure £ 63 billion of private sector investment , we can be sure , to borrow a metaphor from the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , that have their goose not be cook at the last election , return would most certainly have be the diminished . this Budget will be of benefit to my constituent in Stockton , Billingham and Norton who value well - pay industrial and manufacturing sector job . I can understand the confusion of the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) — he be not use to a Government who deliver on their manifesto — but this Government be determined to do that . we will release the finance require to restore the public service that the people of Britain deserve and only a Labour Government can deliver . People in my constituency of Altrincham and Sale West vote for change at the last election , and last week the Chancellor deliver a Budget to start change their life for the well . as member from all part of the House have reflect , the first Labour Budget in 14 year come at a time of challenge economic circumstance , with the £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , 14 year of sluggish economic growth , a massive squeeze on living standard , creak national infrastructure and public service on the floor . our first female Chancellor have never be one to back away from a challenge , and despite the dire inheritance leave to she , there be so much in our Budget that will change our country and the life of my constituent for the well , be it our record investment in the national health service , our pay rise for 3 million low - pay worker , fund for breakfast club in every primary school and our £ 1 billion lifeline for special educational need provision . that will be transformative for family in Altrincham and Sale West . as I say in my maiden speech , my constituency be also a place of business , full of thrive small enterprise that offer so much to our local economy and culture . that be why it be so important that even in the face of the dire economic circumstance we inherit , the Budget ensure that small firm — those least able to shoulder additional cost — have be protect . some 865 , 000 employer now will not pay any national insurance next year and more than 1 million will pay the same or less than they do previously . the Budget enable those firm to employ four national living wage worker full - time without pay national insurance on their wage at all by more than double the employment allowance . for the small business that make up the high street and market of my constituency , that change will make a huge difference . I be pleased that the Federation of Small Businesses have welcome our change to the employment allowance as a huge help for small firm . there be still much to do , but this Budget start to turn the corner , fix the foundation of our economy to deliver a bright future . it accept the huge challenge we face , but be optimistic about our ability to overcome they . this Budget set out a serious path to rebuild Britain for the benefit of our people and my constituent . this be a truly landmark Budget , not only for its glass ceiling smash — I sincerely hope that the girl and young woman in my constituency will be inspire to see the first female Chancellor for England after 800 year — but because it provide the basis for a clean break from the race to the bottom , trickle - down economic drivel , riddle with vested interest , to which the Conservatives have subject the country for the past 14 year , with austerity , recession , dodgy personal protective equipment contract and economic collapse . the public should never forgive and never forget what the Conservatives have do to our country . this Budget mark an end to use public finance and the british people as guinea pig in an economic experiment that send interest rate and mortgage rate soar and living standard plummet and see family grip in the vice - like clutch of the Conservatives ' cost of living crisis . when I listen to the response of the former Leader of the Opposition — it be hard to keep up — it be crystal clear to I that the bear - to - rule conservative simply have not understand that they be not rule any more . I only want to hear one word from the former Leader of the opposition : sorry . that word never come . as someone with over 30 year of private sector experience , I be get a bit bored of the trope that no one on this side of the House have any private sector experience — what about on the Front Bench ? the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Government Front Bench . I appreciate that a large proportion of conservative mp now serve on the Front Bench ; that beg a question about the quality of the people leave behind . on the one hand the Budget place desperately need money in the hand of the lowest - pay worker , where it will be spend locally , and on the other hand it herald a new era of much - need infrastructure investment — the kind that will stimulate growth in the economy and thousand of new job across the country , base on a coherent industrial strategy . it set we on a course to rebuild deplete public service and lay the foundation for the pillar of a decade of economic and social renewal . the Budget recognise the importance of the share prosperity fund , which the Conservatives want to scrap to pay for their hare - brain national service plan — a decision that would have be devastating for the people of Cornwall , as well as for many other community around the UK . the Budget place british worker at its heart — those same british worker who reject the fail economic experiment of the Conservatives , along with the chaos , infighting and fiscal incompetence . they vote decisively for stability and security — a sea change from the previous 14 year . they vote for change ; this Budget deliver it . I start by thank member across the House for their well wish , and I give my sincere thank to the Metropolitan police officer who be with I till the early hour of Tuesday morning — they be brilliant and a credit to the force . Labour be the party for work people and the Chancellor ' s Budget have confirm that . with the increase in the national living wage , thousand of people in Blackpool South , where work be often precarious , be set to receive a 6 . 7 % pay rise . our 18 to 20 - year - old will see their wage increase by 16 . 3 % , which be a huge boost for young people in my home town , who often face barrier to opportunity and well - pay work . much of the work available to my constituent be in hospitality and tourism . as the lead voice and chair of the all - party parliamentary group for hospitality and tourism , I be proud that I can now represent Blackpool ' s voice with this platform . Blackpool ' s tourism economy be value at £ 1 . 7 billion a year and support more than 22 , 000 job . we deserve a seat at the table . like many british seaside resort , Blackpool face significant period of decline in the latter half of the last century . but unlike other , our tourism trade never collapse . my home town have adapt and reinvent itself . we be now on the cusp of a new era of growth , in which our economic development can help to tackle our social problem by improve life and inspire pride in the place that we call home . in 2022 , Blackpool ' s tourism figure top the 20 million mark and account for more than 30 % of all visit to Lancashire . well after the summer season be over , we be welcome 4 , 500 tourist a day , add £ 200 , 000 to the local economy daily . just as Blackpool be an outlier in most statistic , business there operate in a unique economy that be traditionally seasonal , with low per capita spend per visitor . I welcome the Chancellor ' s move to permanently low business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure , and the decision to extend some business rate relief to next year to avoid the cliff edge that business face thank to the previous Government . but I know that business in my constituency be hope for more reassurance from the Government . those business include grassroots music venue such as the Bootleg Social , which be already fight to keep its door open , but make a huge contribution to our cultural landscape in Blackpool . I have reassure business owner in Blackpool that the Government ' s approach to the economy be both pro - worker and pro - business , but I would welcome the opportunity to discuss with the Government the individual circumstance of small business in my constituency . the tourism and hospitality sector in Blackpool welcome investment in our town ' s transport , to make the town more accessible and fit for the future . I be grateful to the Chancellor for support town like mine . the Conservatives leave behind a huge economic mess for Labour to clear up , but we be the party of work people and we be get on with that job . I congratulate all hon . member who have make their maiden speech today . the economic inheritance from the last 14 year could hardly have be any bad . conservative government have serially undermine our public service : they strip they of funding , make it hard to deliver and demoralise dedicated public servant . the impact of their political choice could not have be clear . in multiple crisis , which span from our NHS and social care to local authority service , school , prison , policing and criminal justice , housing and university , instead of reinveste to rebuild , they promise billion of pound of entirely unfunded tax cut in a desperate bid to cling on to power . they have be the vandal of our public service and our economy , and they have leave this new Labour Government with a colossal and daunt task to restore and rebuild . I welcome the Budget , which seek to fix the foundation and begin the restoration that be need . I regret that the action of the previous Government mean that the road to recovery be so long . the additional £ 1 billion in the Budget for SEND be as welcome as it be essential . the crisis in the SEND system be the big current challenge in the education system , with far - reach consequence for child and family who be be let down , school that can not meet the need of their pupil , and local authority that be be drive to the edge of bankruptcy by the cost . I urge the Government to ensure that SEND remain at the forefront of discussion in the comprehensive spending review , because £ 1 billion , while welcome , be only a third of the current in - year deficit in the SEND budget . the statutory override , which protect local authority general fund account from SEND deficit , be due to come to an end in March 2026 , and local authority will soon need certainty about what will happen after that date . without a clear plan , more local authority will be issue section 114 notice — that be not something that the Government can allow to happen . as a constituency MP , I want to use my remain time to raise two other issue arise from the Budget . the additional funding for the NHS be desperately need . the allocation for individual area and health trust have not yet be make . I want to make a particular plea for capital funding for King ' s College hospital . King ' s be currently face severe financial challenge , which it be work hard to address , but that be make hard by a lack of funding for the essential equipment that staff need to increase productivity and deliver the service that patient need . finally , while the additional injection of £ 100 million for social housing in London and change to the regulation on right to buy be welcome , the crisis in London be so deep that the Government must turn their attention to the local housing allowance , which must keep pace with rent in London to avoid even more family be force into temporary accommodation , with knock - on consequence for local authority budget . the Budget seek to fix the foundation and undo the damage that the Conservatives have do . there be much more to do , but the Budget be a very welcome first step on the road . I be pleased to vote for it today . this be a Budget that answer the call make by many of the constituent I speak to during the general election . it be a Budget for change : change for our national health service , change in the living standard of work people and change to our decline investment in infrastructure . yes , there be tough decision ; we on the Government Benches do not shy away from that fact . the key difference between this Government ' s approach and that of our predecessor for the last 14 year be that we simply refuse to place the burden of those tough choice on the back of work family . there have be lot of talk about business during the debate , but the opposition do business a disservice , as if the only thing that business care about be the tax bill . business also rely on a function health service , a quality education system and investment in our broken infrastructure . they also rely on their customer have money in their pocket to spend in the local economy . I be , therefore , delight to see a transformational uplift in the minimum wage , which will positively impact thousand of worker in my constituency of Crewe and Nantwich . I welcome also the commitment to extend High Speed 2 to Euston and the recognition that spend on major infrastructure do not merely carry a cost to the taxpayer but have the potential to pay back to society through economic growth and wide societal benefit . it be imperative that we now turn our focus towards deliver a solution between Birmingham and Manchester . the Birmingham to Crewe leg of the original hs2 project be due to return £ 1 . 91 for every £ 1 spend . I welcome the Government ' s new approach to infrastructure investment , and I look forward to work with they to realise the potential of my constituency as a transport hub . my constituent do not elect a Labour Government to continue the failed , miserable image of the future project by the conservative party — a future where public service can only decline , where growth flatline and where the only figure rise be debt , destitution and the number of fail Prime Ministers in a single Parliament . they vote for change , and that be what this government deliver , so I commend the Budget to the House . I be proud to stand up on behalf of my constituent in Calder Valley and thank this Government for the Budget deliver by our Chancellor — a Budget that rebuild the country and protect the NHS . as someone who spend eight year in local government before come to this place , I recognise some of the huge step that this Budget take to cement local government , guarantee funding for high street project like those in Calder Valley , and end the beauty contest that see community pit against one another for meagre funding . there be £ 600 million guarantee for social care and a commitment to long - term , proper funding for our highway and the scourge of pothole . most importantly , we get three - year funding settlement — no more annual scrabble in December to work out how to make a budget fit . local authority and business can plan long - term , which be what they want , and it be the stability that we need . it have be quite something to sit through this Budget debate for the past few day , because it seem like there have be two Budgets . one be deliver by my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer , which fix our foundation , support hospitality and the high street , provide billion for the NHS , find funding for SEND and open breakfast club . then , there have be the Budget that exist in the imagination of Opposition Members . today , the Leader of the opposition claim that it do not mention the word " defence " . the speech mention it six time , and the Budget have a whole section in the funding settlement for defence . today , we hear from the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) and for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) about the problem of social care . that should not be a new concern for Conservative Members . Andrew Dilnot release his report in 2011 . we be then promise that we would get some kind of proposal in 2014 . in 2017 , the Conservative Government release their proposal , but then withdraw it because they have an election . they then delay it in 2018 . it come back in 2021 and be delay again in 2022 . then they say that they would deliver it in 2024 , but do not find the funding . throughout all that , there have not be a shred of contrition or acknowledgment from the Conservatives that they leave the country on its knee . they have no idea yet why the public reject they so resoundingly at the last election . I hope that as they sum up , they will perhaps show some contrition and answer the Budget as it be , not the one that exist only in their imagination . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my wife be employ as a special educational need co - ordinator in one of our local authority school . my constituent in Bexleyheath and Crayford have be clear : they want a country and community where public service work and the economy be grow . our Government have be bequeath an inheritance of 14 year of low to no growth , the impact of the Conservatives ' Kamikaze mini - Budget and the £ 22 billion black hole leave in the public finance . this Budget invest in public service — the OBR have outline that the direct effect of policy change in this Budget be the large sustained increase in spending in at least the past 15 year . the path to rebuild Britain will include build the home that we need , and I welcome the investment in the affordable home programme in this Budget to kickstart progress towards 1 . 5 million new home over the Parliament . it will include investment in the capacity of local planning authority . in my local authority in Bexley , application from the council ' s own development company take 15 month to reach committee from submission . if our local economy be to grow , application need to be determine more quickly than at present . phase 1 of the spending review provide record level of capital investment for health . my local authority ' s local plan have identify site for new home , but not the site to deliver the additional local health provision that be require . I will be press for this capital investment to deliver a new neighbourhood health centre to help the Government ' s objective . the Budget deliver £ 6 . 7 billion of capital funding for education in England , alongside the increase in funding for the core school budget . I particularly welcome the £ 1 billion to support the special educational need and disability system . while we await the detail , my local authority sign a safety valve agreement to avert effective bankruptcy , and , like other authority we have hear about today , it now face a tick time bomb signal the run out of the statutory override in 2026 . its finance will be boost by the increase spending power provide in the Budget . it be three year since my conservative council seek a capitalisation order and make 15 % of staff redundant to stave off bankruptcy , and I believe that this Government will work with local authority to ensure that the impact of austerity be not repeat . for those reason , I will be support the Budget this evening . finally , after 14 year of patch up , we have a Budget that put down the first brick as we start to rebuild our country . with this Budget we will be able to start to put the NHS back on its foot with a £ 25 billion boost , provide a shot in the arm for our school with extra funding include £ 1 billion for SEND , and invest in our transport and energy infrastructure . on a local level , the Budget contain positive for my constituency and for Cornwall more widely . local transport in rural area will receive £ 650 million , and the Chancellor name Cornwall in particular as an area that will benefit directly in term of connectivity . the freeze in fuel duty , and fix those pothole , will help people who still have to rely on their car in rural area such as ours . we be also get some solution for our housing crisis with a stamp duty rise of up to 5 % for second home buyer , which should lead to more house on the market for local people . the Budget provide extra money for council to build affordable and social housing , as well as limit the discount on sell off council house and change the rule so that council can build more social housing with the proceed . I be pleased that Cornwall Council have be support with extra funding , although I do want to raise the case of the other council — such as town and parish council — that have take on so many of the service of which the unitary authority have divest themselves , and as a consequence be often large employer with big budget . I be also pleased that the important share prosperity funding for Cornwall have be extend for another year at a national figure of £ 900 million , so that all the investment in scheme to get people into work and into cornish business can continue . however , I should like to hear confirmation that the funding formula continue to recognise the huge loss that Cornwall suffer when we lose the EU structural funding . the Government be also boost public investment , and next year will publish a new industrial strategy set out high - growth area where the UK have real competitive advantage . some of the area ripe for investment will be renewable , technology , food , and the creative industry , in which Cornwall have real strength . in my constituency we look forward particularly to investment in float offshore wind in the Celtic sea and in port such as Falmouth , as well as investment in our vital creative art . our Chancellor have choose the bold path to save and rebuild the NHS , school and other public service and invest in the country ' s infrastructure , while also ensure that people do not face high taxis in their pay packet . this be a big Budget of renewal , which will set we on the road to recovery . I congratulate the Chancellor on deliver the first Labour Budget in 15 year , and on do so as the first ever female Chancellor . speak to resident in and around the stocklake area of my constituency over the weekend , I be glad to hear positive feedback and optimism follow the Budget . of course we have to make tough choice , but people get that , and personally I be very proud of the choice we have make to invest in our public service first and foremost and to get they work for people again . there be much to commend in the Budget , and I want to highlight four point . first , the national minimum wage have increase to £ 12 . 21 per hour , which have be very well receive by my constituent . over 9 , 000 people in Buckinghamshire be on the national living wage , and they be all set for a pay rise . secondly , the core school budget have increase by £ 2 . 3 billion , and £ 1 billion have be allocate to support child with SEND , which I know can not come soon enough for my constituent . thirdly , there be a commitment to infrastructure investment , include the commitment to East West Rail , which I know will unlock growth and opportunity . I will keep push for the Aylesbury spur to link up with that . finally and most importantly , we have make a huge commitment to the NHS in this Budget , include through a £ 22 billion increase to day - to - day spending and £ 3 . 1 billion of capital investment , which will be use to bring waiting list down , invest in new technology and deliver 40 , 000 extra appointment every week , include at Stoke Mandeville hospital . I be excited about the budget for mental health , which will be crucial . I be conscious that improve our nation ' s health will take time , and that our goal be necessarily long term . I be remind of that at this morning ' s parliamentary launch of the fantastic Health Equals campaign , which highlight the work that we have to do to tackle the social determinant of health inequality and halve the gap in healthy life expectancy . however , this Budget deliver the big cash injection into the NHS outside covid year since 2010 , which have put we firmly on the road to recovery . this Budget be firmly on the side of those who need our support , and firmly on the right side of history , and I can not wait to see what it deliver for my constituent in Aylesbury . my constituent go to work to make train , plane and automobile at Alstom , Rolls - Royce and Toyota , and they work in their supply chain . this Budget deliver ambitious plan for rail infrastructure , nearly £ 100 million in R & D funding for aerospace , and £ 2 billion to support the automotive sector . to get to work , many of my constituent commute ; 1 . 2 billion vehicle mile be travel on Derby ' s road last year . the fuel duty freeze and the extra half a billion pound to fix pothole be hugely welcome . my constituent teach and learn at our great university and school . they treat other and be treat at the Royal Derby hospital . they work in our shop and restaurant , and on the building site where the regeneration of our city be take shape . we in Derby be lay the foundation for growth — literally . building be under way on a new university business school , a new mental health unit at Kingsway and a new performance venue at Becketwell . at Friar Gate good yard , which have stand derelict for over 50 year , new home and business be be build . there be also investment in our theatre — £ 20 million of funding that this Budget underwrite . we need and get a Budget that support our ambition . last week , I go from the Budget statement to a meeting of small business in my constituency , which be organise by the Federation of Small Businesses . we discuss how this Budget will grow the cake , from investment in skill and reform of business rate to the approval of the east midland investment zone and start - up loan . this be a Budget that be , at last , honest about the public finance be in a mess , and we have make tough decision so that our business can have the stability and certainty they need . to rebuild Britain , however , we also need to reset the broken contract with work people . for 14 year , in Budget after Budget , from austerity to Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget , work people be barely offer crumb from the table , while productivity and growth flatline — but no more . work people now have a proper seat at the table . the minimum wage will increase from £ 11 . 44 to £ 12 . 21 an hour next April , which will affect one in 10 Derby North worker . for 18 to 20 - year - old , there will be a 16 % increase to £ 10 an hour . Derby have the second high average salary outside London , so for those move on with their career , there will be a rise in the income tax and national insurance contribution threshold from 2028 - 29 . finally , investment — order . I call Sam Rushworth . the conservative party be keen for we all to declare our membership of trade union in the debate on the Employment Rights Bill , so we should probably all declare that most of we receive funding from business during the general election campaign . I certainly do , and I pay tribute to the small business in my constituency . some 89 % of they be consider microbusinesse with few than 10 employee , so the majority will pay less national insurance under this Budget . I thank the Chancellor for protect work people and small business . listen to Conservative Members , as we have be do for the past five hour , it seem that many of they see the business community as care about nothing but quick profit and avoid tax , but the local business that I speak to are proud not only to deliver quality product and service , but to create good job and strengthen the local economy . they have be do that in try circumstance , and many of they have support labour candidate at this election because they want a Government who match their ambition . when I ask they what they want to see from Government , they say they want not only a fair tax system but investment , and that be what this budget deliver . they want a secure power supply . they also want fast planning decision , include the young farmer who come to see I because he have be push back for two year now in his attempt to just build some pig pen . the big barrier , however , be that business can not get the staff , and this be true from manufacture to hospitality . Britain be hold back by a skill shortage , so I welcome a Budget that will invest in Britain ' s most precious , productive asset : her people . when we invest in fast NHS appointment , in emergency dentistry , in mental health , in SEND provision , in specialist teacher in STEM subject and in childcare , we invest in business too , because these be the people who will rebuild Britain . the people of Durham have be hold back for too long . in the past 14 year , our life expectancy have fall behind . our child be short , and the number of child in care have increase by 250 % , so we can see the impact of austerity in people ' s body and family life . I welcome a Budget that have bring the end of austerity and begin the long , hard job of rebuild this country . I also welcome a Budget that have put more money in people ' s pocket , include by honour the triple lock , which the Conservatives fail to do in 2022 , cost pensioner in my constituency £ 488 . we come to the final Back - Bench speaker , Patrick Hurley . when I stand to speak in this House , I often criticise the former Government , and to be fair , there be a lot to criticise , but Liz Truss at least get one thing right . she claim to make economic growth the drive force behind her plan , but while Truss take a reckless big - bang approach to tackle the stagnation that this country have experience since 2010 , our focus be on long - term investment , not short - term tax cut . this speak to one of many big problem with recent Tory Governments — a problem that any business owner in this country could tell you about . it be all about return on investment . over the last 14 year , there have be too little return because there have be too little investment . to combat that , we have secure £ 63 billion in private investment , and we have put £ 2 billion into electric vehicle development . I note , too , that the UK Space Agency say that the space industry be worth £ 17 billion a year to our economy . it be no doubt help to ensure that we get early warning of any new super - massive black hole we might not be aware of . this Budget be the beginning of the change our country vote for . it will make Britain well off ; there will be more money in people ' s pocket , an nhs that be there when people need it , business create wealth and opportunity for all , the house building that we need , the transport infrastructure that we be cry out for , wage that make work pay , and a state pension that be uprated as it should have be all along . this be a Budget of change , a Budget of investment and growth , a Budget to put more money in work people ' s pocket , and a Budget to get our public service back on their foot . it be the most welcome Budget for many year — a Budget in line with the value of the british people . I be proud to support this Labour Budget . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the 67 Back - Bench Members who have speak in this debate , and I commiserate with the two Labour Members who do not get in . I be sure that they will have their opportunity in future . I congratulate the four member who give their maiden speech : the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , for Ely and East Cambridgeshire ( Charlotte Cane ) and for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) . many in this House will remember their maiden speech and will know how anxious those four member be before they stand up to speak , and how relieved they be when they reach the end and could sit down . that feeling do not go away . we end this Budget debate where we begin : with the deceit that the Labour party show to the british public about its intention to launch one of the big tax grab in our history . at the election , Labour Front Benchers tour the country , stage photo op , snap cheeky selfie and solicit reassuring quote from business , farmer and senior citizen , say to each in turn that they could trust Labour and that a Labour Government would have their back . this Budget of broken promise show that they have all be con . my conservative colleague have lay bare , always clearly and frequently with strong feeling , the consequence of the political choice this Labour Government have make with this Budget . colleague have speak on behalf of Britain ' s farming family , on behalf of our country ' s small business , on behalf of parent with child in education , on behalf of GP surgery and hospice , and , above all , on behalf of the work people they represent , who have be target by this Budget . this be a Budget of choice , and the choice be labour ' s , and theirs alone — their choice to increase taxis , their choice to increase debt , their choice to change the fiscal rule , and their choice to rip up election promise after election promise . just as the Labour Government have make their choice , today we must start to make our own choice . our choice be to help the small business owner , to help the aspire entrepreneur , to help those thinking of use their talent to help build Britain , to help the farmer whose parent and grandparent have toil in our field , to help the child who will be turf out of their school in the middle of the year — some have no school place to go to — and to protect the worker of Britain who believe what Labour say at the election and who now know they be con . that be why we will vote against Budget resolution this evening . two group of people have be clobber drastically by this Budget , group who be the cornerstone of our economy . as we have hear throughout these debate , the Labour Government ' s decision to increase employer ' national insurance contribution be not only a manifesto breach but a barrier to growth . sadly , this Labour Government do not understand that there will never be a sustainable public sector without a thriving private sector . the private sector in this country be a delicate fabric of small and medium - sized business . many have be just scrape by for year , but each be spur on by the endeavour that be the spirit of free enterprise . run a small business — Labour Members may want to take a note — be not easy . our constituent run some 5 . 4 million small and medium - sized enterprise across the UK , so when the Minister respond , will she explain to those people , in my constituency and across the country , what they be to do in the face of Labour ' s job tax — the massive increase in employer national insurance contribution ? the Office for Budget Responsibility say that the job tax would be pass on by " most " firm to their employee through reduce wage ; the Resolution Foundation say it will have the big proportional impact on low - pay worker ; and the Federation of Small Businesses say it will cause " many sme " to " struggle " . that be the truth , and a far cry from the warm word the Labour Chancellor offer business during the election campaign . when the Prime Minister , in February this year , look farmer in the eye and say that they " deserve well " , be he already hatch labour ' s family farm tax ? the NFU have say : " the shameless breaking of those promise on Agricultural Property Relief will snatch away much of the next generation ' s ability to carry on produce british food " . the truth be that the Labour Party do not understand even the basic of farming . reduce the relief and impose inheritance tax on farmland will devastate family farm and pose a serious risk to domestic food security and food price . throughout the debate , Labour mp have sneeringly refer to those farmer as " millionaire " , but many family farmer be not rich . they eke out a modest and — [ interruption . ] Labour Members should have be here for the debate . many family farm eke out a modest and highly uncertain income , year after year . that be why we ask taxpayer each year to subsidise british farmer so they can continue grow food for Britain . the family farm tax be not just tax farmer ; it be tax Britain ' s farmland , the very land we need to grow the food we eat . this Budget of broken promise send a series of clear message : don ' t start your own business , because Labour will tax you ; don ' t have a plan to hire new employee because Labour will tax you ; don ' t take a risk and expect to keep a reward , because Labour will tax you ; don ' t invest in the education of your child , because Labour will tax you ; and don ' t , whatever you do , farm your land to grow british food , because Labour will grind you into that very same ground , and tax you too . finally , I say to the Minister that the trust that have be break in this Budget will not be recover . People will never forget what happen when Labour be give its chance . they will never forget the harm do when Labour make its choice , and they will never forget that Labour ' s first Budget be a Budget of broken promise . it be an absolute honour to make the closing speech on this historic Budget . it be historic for two reason . first , it be the first ever Budget to be deliver by a woman — the first female Chancellor of the Exchequer after 800 year . she have smash the glass ceiling , and I hope all the woman and young girl watch know that they can be in the drive seat of a Labour Government . secondly , it be historic because we be finally wipe the slate clean and turn the page on 14 year of Tory incompetence , chaos and outright instability . this Budget will make meaningful change by focus on the fundamental . do the Minister agree that one of the good way of celebrate this Budget be with a pint of locally brew beer ? do she agree that the consultation on the pub code announce by the Government in the Budget statement will be joyful to the ear of local , independent brewery in all our constituency ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I know that she be a doughty champion of the pub in Carlisle . the pub in my constituency be celebrate the penny off pint . let I get back to the previous Government , who be wrong when they claim that they would fix the roof while the sun be shine . while chase a budget surplus — for which , 14 year later , all they have to show be catastrophic public finance — they merely paint over the ever - grow crack in the bedrock of our society and our country . that be why this Government be right to focus on fix the foundation of our economy , because that be the only way that we can change the country , deliver for work people and rebuild Britain . of course , buy a home be hard if the seller have mislead we about its true condition by underestimate the size and cost of any require repair . in that sense , rebuild our economy be no different , because the previous Government ' s public spending plan exist only on paper ; there be no real allocation of money to back up any of the spending plan . they behave no well than some huckster try desperately to sell a flat that they know will never be build . that be why the OBR have say that , have it be make aware of the scale of the spending pressure during the spring 2024 Budget , its assessment of the previous Government ' s spending plan would have be " materially different " . that be why it be right that we take our time to conduct a full survey of the economic inheritance that they leave we . will the Minister give way ? no ! the right hon . Gentleman have intervene 18 time . I shall not give he another chance . let I continue . that be the only way that we can really fix the foundation . of course , that involve take tough decision , particularly on spending and taxation , but I will take no lecture from those who be content to levy a £ 22 billion pound tax on this country ' s future , and , through their unfunded spending commitment , attempt to undemocratically bind the hand of a future government . well , guess what ? this government will do thing differently . while the previous Government allow investment in our country to fall to its low level on record , this Government will put investment at the heart of everything that we do . that be why we hold the international investment summit in October — to show firm at home and abroad that Britain be open for business once more . that be why we have introduce a new fiscal rule — the investment rule — which , alongside appropriate guardrail provide by the OBR and our new stability rule , mean that this Government can meaningfully invest in our country ' s future . of course , investment mean take a long - term view . as anyone who have buy a property , build a business or raise a family will know , the early day be always the hard . but if they take the hard call now , in time they will get back far more than they put in . I pick those example deliberately , but with regret . the sad truth be that , for work people — particularly young people — up and down the country , home ownership , entrepreneurship and start a family have never be more distant . this Budget will start to change that . our manifesto make a clear commitment to get Britain build again . this Budget put the first shovel in the ground , with a commitment to spend an average of 2 . 6 % of gdp on public sector net investment over the course of this Parliament . this will include an additional £ 500 million in new funding for social and affordable home , which bring total investment in housing supply to more than £ 5 billion and support the delivery of ten of thousand of new home . we will build more than just home ; we need to build community . infrastructure be key to tie those community together while ensure that they plug into the wide economy . [ interruption . ] the shadow Foreign Secretary ask how . if she listen , she will learn , so she should pay attention . get our country move again will be key to grow the economy . [ interruption . ] she should not chunter from the Front Bench . she need to listen , because our commitment to infrastructure investment will help we to do so — by , for instance , increase local road investment by £ 500 million in 2024 - 25 . these be the thing that the previous Government fail to do , but we will deliver for our country . for work family , that mean less time waste dodge pothole and more time for the thing that actually matter . of course , infrastructure help not just family but firm . in an increasingly volatile world , Government should play an important role in secure our energy supply so that firm can price that into their business plan . we hear powerful and authentic maiden speech today from my hon . friend the Members for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) . we will see they as huge asset to Parliament . some of they mention that their family do not think that they would get here ; I be really pleased that their family be wrong . I will finish by echo something that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , say . it be not often that I agree with he , but he say that we have choice . the truth be that we do have choice , and guess what ? we choose to act . in 10 year ' time , the country will look back on this Budget as the moment when we get Britain ' s future back . in the future , the economy will have grow because at this moment we choose to prioritise a healthy workforce ; we will have record level of investment because we prioritise fiscal and economic responsibility ; and people will have more money in their pocket because we prioritise protect hard - work people ' s payslip . the merry - go - round of austerity and economic irresponsibility be over . we make a choice — a choice to rebuild Britain . question put and agree to . resolve , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2025 - 26 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . let I explain what will happen next . I be now require under Standing Order no . 51 ( 3 ) to put successively , without further debate , the question on each of the Ways and Means motion number 2 to 62 , and the money motion on which the Finance Bill be to be bring in . these motion be set out in a separate paper distribute with today ' s Order Paper . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary to dispose of the motion make in the name of the Chancellor of the Exchequer ( Standing Order no . 51 ( 3 ) ) . 2 . income tax ( main rate ) resolve , that for the tax year 2025 - 26 the main rate of income tax be as follow — ( a ) the basic rate be 20 % , ( b ) the high rate be 40 % , and ( c ) the additional rate be 45 % . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 3 . income tax ( default and saving rate ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) for the tax year 2025 - 26 the default rate of income tax be as follow — ( a ) the default basic rate be 20 % , ( b ) the default high rate be 40 % , and ( c ) the default additional rate be 45 % . ( 2 ) for the tax year 2025 - 26 the saving rate of income tax be as follow — ( a ) the saving basic rate be 20 % , ( b ) the saving high rate be 40 % , and ( c ) the saving additional rate be 45 % . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 4 . income tax ( start rate limit for saving ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) for the tax year 2025 - 26 the amount specify in section 12 ( 3 ) of the Income Tax Act 2007 ( the starting rate limit for saving ) be " £ 5 , 000 " . ( 2 ) accordingly , section 21 of that Act ( indexation ) do not apply in relation to the starting rate limit for saving for that tax year . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 5 . income tax ( appropriate percentage for car ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make take effect in a future year increase the appropriate percentage mention in section 139 to 142 of the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 . 6 . capital gain tax ( the main rate ) question put , that — ( 1 ) in section 1h of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 ( the main rate of CGT ) — ( a ) omit subsection ( 1A ) ( which set out the rate for residential property gain accrue to individual ) , ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( which set out the rate for gain accrue to individual that be not residential property gain or carry interest gain ) — ( i ) for " 10 % " substitute " 18 % " , and ( ii ) for " 20 % " substitute " 24 % " , ( c ) omit subsection ( 4A ) ( which set out the rate for residential property gain accrue to personal representative ) , ( d ) in subsection ( 6 ) ( which set out the rate for gain accrue to personal representative that be not residential property gain or carry interest gain ) , for " 20 % " substitute " 24 % " , ( e ) omit subsection ( 7 ) ( which set out the rate for residential property gain accrue to trustee ) , and ( f ) in subsection ( 8 ) ( which set out the rate for gain accrue to trustee that be not residential property gain or carry interest gain ) — ( i ) omit " other " , and ( ii ) for " 20 % " substitute " 24 % " . ( 2 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to disposal make on or after 30 October 2024 . ( 3 ) if an asset be transfer on or after 30 October 2024 under an unconditional contract make before that date , the disposal be , despite section 28 ( 1 ) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 , to be treat for the purpose of the amendment make by this resolution as take place at the time the asset be transfer ( rather than at the time the contract be make ) unless the contract be an exclude contract . ( 4 ) a contract be an exclude contract if — ( a ) obtain an advantage by reason of the application of section 28 ( 1 ) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 be no purpose of enter into the contract , and ( b ) where the party to the contract be connect person , the contract be enter into wholly for commercial reason . ( 5 ) a contract be not to be regard as an exclude contract unless the person make the transfer make a claim which include a statement that the contract meet the condition to be an exclude contract . ( 6 ) but no claim be require if the total amount of — ( a ) the chargeable gain accrue on the disposal , and ( b ) the chargeable gain accrue on all other disposal make under exclude contract , do not exceed £ 100 , 000 . ( 7 ) for this purpose the amount of any gain accrue on a qualifying business disposal be to be take to be the amount of the gain under section 169N ( 2 ) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 . ( 8 ) if the person make the transfer make — ( a ) a claim under section 169 M of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 in relation to a qualifying business disposal ( business asset disposal relief ) , or ( b ) a claim under section 169VM of that Act ( investor ' relief ) in relation to a disposal , section 169 M ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of that Act , or ( as the case may be ) section 169VM ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of that Act , apply to a claim under paragraph ( 5 ) in relation to the disposal as they apply to a claim under the section concern . ( 9 ) in this resolution " qualify business disposal " have the meaning give by chapter 3 of Part 5 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 . ( 10 ) in this Resolution any reference to the transfer of an asset include its conveyance . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Martin McCluskey Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright David Simmonds Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 401 , Noes 120 . question accordingly agree to . 7 . capital gain tax ( business asset disposal relief ) question put , that provision may be make increase the rate specify in section 169N ( 3 ) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 , include ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision take effect in a future year . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Martin McCluskey Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright David Simmonds Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 400 , Noes 120 . question accordingly agree to . 8 . capital gain tax ( investor ' relief ) question put , that — ( a ) provision may be make increase the rate specify in section 169VC ( 2 ) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 , include ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision take effect in a future year , and ( b ) provision may be make reduce the amount specify in section 169VK ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) and 169VL ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of that Act . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Martin McCluskey Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright David Simmonds Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 400 , Noes 122 . question accordingly agree to . 9 . capital gain tax ( rate on carry interest gain ) resolve , that provision may be make increase the rate at which carry interest gain be charge to capital gain tax . 10 . corporation tax ( charge and main rate for financial year 2026 ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make — ( a ) for corporation tax to be charge for the financial year 2026 , and ( b ) for the main rate of corporation tax for that year to be 25 % . 11 . corporation tax ( standard small profit rate and fraction for financial year 2026 ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make — ( a ) for the standard small profit rate to be 19 % for the purpose of Part 3A of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the financial year 2026 , and ( b ) for the standard marginal relief fraction to be 3 / 200ths for those purpose for that year . 12 . energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy ( increase in rate ) question put , that — ( 1 ) in section 1 of the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 ( charge to tax ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , for " 35 % " substitute " 38 % " . ( 2 ) the amendment make by paragraph ( 1 ) have effect for accounting period begin on or after 1 November 2024 . ( 3 ) in the case of an accounting period ( a " straddling period " ) begin before 1 November 2024 and end on or after that date — ( a ) the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 be to apply as if so much of the straddling period as fall before that date , and so much of the straddling period as fall on or after that date , be separate accounting period , and ( b ) the company ' s levy profit or loss determine for the straddling period ( on the assumption that the whole of that period be a qualifying period ) be apportion to the two separate accounting period in accordance with section 17 of that Act , which be to apply for the purpose of this resolution as it apply for the purpose of section 15 and 16 of that Act . ( 4 ) in the case of a straddling period , the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998 be to apply separately — ( a ) in relation to the levy , and ( b ) in relation to any other tax chargeable on the company . ( 5 ) in their application as a result of paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) , the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998 be to have effect in relation to the levy — ( a ) as if the two separate accounting period deem to arise under paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) be accounting period for the purpose of those Regulations and as if the levy be chargeable for those deem accounting period , but ( b ) as if the final instalment payment for the deem accounting period end on 31 October 2024 become due and payable on the date on which the next instalment payment after 31 October 2024 would have become due and payable for the straddling period in the absence of this Resolution . ( 6 ) any reference in the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998 to the total liability of a company be accordingly to be read — ( a ) in their application as a result of paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) , as a reference to the levy , and ( b ) in their application as a result of paragraph ( 4 ) ( b ) , as a reference to the amount that would be the company ' s total liability for the straddling period if the levy be leave out of account . ( 7 ) for the purpose of the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998 — ( a ) a company be to be regard as a large company as respect the deem accounting period under paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) only if it be a large company for those purpose as respect the straddling period , and ( b ) any question whether a company be a large company as respect the straddling period be to be determine as it would have be determine apart from section 1 of the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 . ( 8 ) in this Resolution " the Instalment Payment Regulations 1998 " mean the Corporation Tax ( Instalment Payments ) regulation 1998 ( S . I . 1998 / 3175 ) . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Martin McCluskey Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Stephen Flynn Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright David Simmonds Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 455 , Noes 125 . question accordingly agree to . 13 . energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy ( relief for investment expenditure ) question put , that — ( 1 ) the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for section 2 substitute — " 2 additional expenditure treat as incur for purpose of section 1 ( 1 ) this section apply for the purpose of section 1 if , in a qualifying accounting period , a company have incur investment expenditure . ( 2 ) expenditure be " investment expenditure " of a company so far as the expenditure — ( a ) be capital expenditure on the de - carbonisation of its upstream petroleum production , ( b ) be incur for the purpose of oil - relate activity , ( c ) be not incur for disqualify purpose , and ( d ) do not consist of financing cost or decommissioning cost . ( 3 ) for the purpose of section 1 the company be to be treat as if , in addition to the investment expenditure incur by it in the accounting period , it have incur in that period expenditure of an amount equal to 66 % of the amount of that investment expenditure . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) if investment expenditure be incur partly for the purpose of oil - relate activity and partly for other purpose , the expenditure be to be attribute to the oil - relate activity on a just and reasonable basis , and ( b ) if a company incur expenditure part of which be capital expenditure on the de - carbonisation of its upstream petroleum production and part of which be not , the expenditure be to be apportion on a just and reasonable basis . ( 5 ) this section need to be read with section 6 ( which prevent recycle etc of asset to generate relief ) . " ( 3 ) omit section 3 and 4 ( definition of " operate expenditure " and " lease expenditure " ) . ( 4 ) in section 7 ( 1 ) ( when investment expenditure be incur ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , omit " in the case of capital expenditure , " , and ( b ) omit paragraph ( b ) . ( 5 ) in section 18 ( 1 ) ( interpretation ) , omit the definition of " lease expenditure " and " operate expenditure " . ( 6 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to expenditure incur on or after 1 November 2024 ( and section 7 of the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy Act 2022 apply for the purpose of this resolution as it apply for the purpose of that Act ) . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Martin McCluskey Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Stephen Flynn Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright David Simmonds Gagan Mohindra the House divide : Ayes 454 , Noes 124 . question accordingly agree to . 14 . energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy ( period for which levy have effect ) question put , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make for extend the period for which the energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy have effect until 31 March 2030 . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Gerald Jones Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Stephen Flynn Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright David Simmonds Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 450 , Noes 120 . question accordingly agree to . 15 . oil and gas ( decommissioning of carbon storage installation ) resolve , that provision may be make for relief to be give in the case of payment make into a decommissioning fund in accordance with provision make under chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Energy Act 2023 ( decommissioning of carbon storage installation ) . 16 . Pillar two ( Pillar two territory etc ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 241 ( pillar two territory ) at the end insert — " ( 4 ) a territory outside the United Kingdom be to be treat as a Pillar two territory for the purpose of any accounting period that conclude before the first regulation under this section have be make if it be a territory in which a tax apply for that accounting period — ( a ) that be a Qualified IIR for the purpose of the Pillar two rule , or ( b ) that it be reasonable to conclude be likely to be a Qualified IIR for the purpose of those rule . " ( 3 ) in section 256 ( qualify domestic top - up tax ) at the end insert — " ( 5 ) a tax ( other than domestic top - up tax which be always a qualify domestic top - up tax ) be to be treat as a qualify domestic top - up tax for the purpose of any accounting period that conclude before the first regulation under this section have be make if — ( a ) it be a Qualified Domestic Minimum Top - up tax for that accounting period for the purpose of the Pillar two rule , or ( b ) it be reasonable to conclude that it be likely to be a Qualified Domestic Minimum Top - up tax for that accounting period for the purpose of those rule . " ( 4 ) in Schedule 16a ( qualify domestic top - up tax safe harbour election ) — ( a ) in paragraph 1 ( 3 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " may only be make " substitute " be only valid " , and ( b ) in paragraph 2 — ( i ) the exist text become sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , and ( ii ) after that sub - paragraph insert — " ( 2 ) a qualify domestic top - up tax be to be treat as accredit for the purpose of any accounting period that conclude before the first regulation under this paragraph have be make if — ( a ) the tax fall within chapter 5 . 5 to 5 . 7 of the QDMTT safe harbour guidance , or ( b ) it be reasonable to conclude that the tax be likely to fall within chapter 5 . 5 to 5 . 7 of that guidance . ( 3 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) the " QDMTT safe harbour guidance " mean Chapter 5 of tax Challenges arise from the Digitalisation of the Economy – Administrative Guidance on the Global Anti - Base Erosion Model Rules ( Pillar two ) , July 2023 , publish by the OECD on 17 July 2023 . " ( 5 ) the amendment make by this Resolution come into force on 7 November 2024 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 17 . Pillar Two ( UTPR etc ) resolve , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make — ( a ) for the purpose of implement the UTPR within the meaning of the Pillar two rule , ( b ) for the purpose of ensure that change ( or anticipate change ) to those rule be take into account in the provision make by part 3 and 4 of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 and otherwise in connection with the application of those rule , and ( c ) about the exclusion from Part 4 of that Act of certain entity which be not member of a multinational group . 18 . offshore receipt in respect of intangible property resolved , that provision may be make repeal chapter 2A of Part 5 of the Income Tax ( Trading and Other Income ) Act 2005 . 19 . application of PAYE in relation to internationally mobile employee resolve , that provision may be make for replace section 690 of the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 in case where employee be internationally mobile . 20 . advance pricing agreement resolve , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make for the purpose of section 219 ( 2 ) of the Taxation ( International and Other Provisions ) Act 2010 . 21 . first - year allowance ( electric vehicle ) resolve , that provision may be make extend the date by which expenditure must be incur to qualify for an allowance under section 45d or 45ea of the Capital Allowances Act 2001 . 22 . commercial letting of furnished holiday accommodation resolve , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make abolish the special rule relate to the commercial letting of furnished holiday accommodation . 23 . expenditure on visual effect in film and television programme resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make amend Part 14a of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 so as to provide for the payment of credit to company in respect of expenditure incur on the use of computer technology to create or alter image for inclusion in a film or television programme . 24 . relief for film , television programme and video game ( certification etc ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make amend Part 14a of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 in relation to — ( a ) the certification of film , television programme and video game , and ( b ) the treatment of expenditure that be not pay within a specify period after the end of an accounting period . 25 . research and development Resolved , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make — ( a ) about the application of chapter 2 of Part 13 of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 in relation to Northern Ireland , and ( b ) substitute a new sub - paragraph ( 4 ) for paragraph 21 ( 4 ) of Schedule 1 to the Finance Act 2024 . 26 . employee - ownership trust ( requirement as to trustee etc ) resolve , that — introduction ( 1 ) the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 be amend as follow . requirement for trustee of employee - ownership trust to be UK resident ( 2 ) in section 236h ( 4 ) ( disposal to employee - ownership trust ) , before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( aa ) that the trustee of the settlement be resident in the United Kingdom at the time of the disposal and continue to be UK resident for the remainder of the tax year in which that time fall , " . ( 3 ) in section 236o ( 2 ) ( no section 236h relief if disqualify event in next tax year ) , before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( aa ) the trustee of the settlement cease to be resident in the United Kingdom , " . ( 4 ) in section 236p ( event which trigger deem disposal and reacquisition by trustee ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3A ) see also section 80 ( trustee cease to be resident in UK ) , which provide for similar consequence in circumstance where the trustee of the settlement cease to be resident in the United Kingdom . " ( 5 ) in section 236q ( 1 ) ( c ) ( relief for deem disposal under section 71 ) , for " 236h ( 4 ) ( a ) " substitute " 236H ( 4 ) ( aa ) " . trustee independence ( 6 ) in section 236h ( 4 ) , after paragraph ( b ) insert — " ( ba ) that the settlement meet the trustee independence requirement ( see section 236LA ) at the time of the disposal and continue to meet that requirement for the remainder of the tax year in which that time fall , " . ( 7 ) after section 236l insert — " 236LA Trustee independence requirement ( 1 ) a settlement meet the trustee independence requirement if — ( a ) less than 50 % of the trustee be person who be exclude participator , and ( b ) exclude participator do not have control of the settlement . ( 2 ) in this section " exclude participator " mean — ( a ) a person that be an exclude participator within the meaning give by section 236J , other than a person who be an exclude participator only as a result of a connection fall within section 286 ( 3 ) ( trustee regard as connect with settlor etc ) , or ( b ) a company not fall within paragraph ( a ) , if 50 % or more of its director be person fall within that paragraph . ( 3 ) exclude participator have control of the settlement if one or more exclude participator , act alone or together without the trustee who be not exclude participator , have power under the trust instrument or by law to — ( a ) dispose of , advance , lend , invest , pay or apply settlement property ; ( b ) vary or terminate the settlement ; ( c ) add or remove a person as a beneficiary or to or from a class of beneficiary ; ( d ) appoint or remove trustee or give another individual control over the settlement ; ( e ) direct the exercise of a power mention in sub - paragraph ( a ) to ( d ) . " ( 8 ) in section 236o ( 2 ) , after paragraph ( b ) insert — " ( ba ) the settlement cease to meet the trustee independence requirement , " . ( 9 ) in section 236p ( 2 ) ( event which trigger deem disposal and reacquisition by trustee ) , after paragraph ( b ) insert — " ( ba ) the settlement cease to meet the trustee independence requirement , " . temporary breach of trustee independence requirement or residence requirement arise from death of trustee ( 10 ) in section 236o , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) where — ( a ) a disqualifying event fall within subsection ( 2 ) ( aa ) occur ( trustee cease to be resident in the United Kingdom ) , ( b ) the event only occur as a result of the death of a trustee of the settlement , and ( c ) within the period of 6 month begin with the death of the trustee , the trustee become resident in the United Kingdom , the disqualifying event be to be ignore . ( 2b ) where — ( a ) a disqualifying event fall within subsection ( 2 ) ( ba ) occur ( trustee independence requirement cease to be meet ) , ( b ) the event only occur as a result of — ( i ) the death of a trustee of the settlement , or ( ii ) the death of a director of a company that be a trustee of the settlement , and ( c ) within the period of 6 month begin with that death , the settlement meet the trustee independence requirement , the disqualifying event be to be ignore . " ( 11 ) in section 236P , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) where — ( a ) a disqualifying event fall within subsection ( 2 ) ( ba ) occur ( trustee independence requirement cease to be meet ) , ( b ) the event only occur as a result of — ( i ) the death of a trustee of the settlement , or ( ii ) the death of a director of a company that be a trustee of the settlement , and ( c ) within the period of 6 month begin with that death , the settlement meet the trustee independence requirement , the disqualifying event be to be ignore . " consideration requirement ( 12 ) in section 236h ( 4 ) , after paragraph ( c ) insert — " ( can ) that the trustee have take all reasonable step to secure that — ( i ) the consideration for the disposal do not exceed the market value of the ordinary share capital at the time of the disposal , and ( ii ) where some or all of the consideration for the disposal be defer , that the rate of any interest payable in relation to the deferral do not exceed a reasonable commercial rate , " . ( 13 ) in section 236Q , in subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , for " ( d ) " substitute " ( c ) and ( d ) " . extended period for disqualify event ( 14 ) in section 236o — ( a ) in the heading , for " tax year " substitute " four tax year " , and ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , for " the tax year " substitute " any of the first four tax year " . ( 15 ) in section 236p ( 1 ) , after " end of the " insert " fourth " . ( 16 ) in section 236R — ( a ) in the heading , for " tax year " substitute " four tax year " , and ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , for " the tax year " substitute " any of the first four tax year " . commencement ( 17 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to disposal make on or after 30 October 2024 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 27 . employee - ownership trust ( claim and relief ) resolve , that provision may be make — ( a ) about the information to be include in claim under section 236h and 236Q of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 , ( b ) for relief for bonus payment under chapter 10a of Part 4 of the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 not to be preclude by the exclusion of director from the scheme under which the payment be award , and ( c ) for a relief from income tax on distribution make to trustee of an employee - ownership trust by the company to which the trust relate to meet the cost of the trust acquire ordinary share capital of the company . 28 . pension ( overseas transfer charge ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) in Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 ( pension ) , omit section 244c ( exclusion from overseas transfer charge where receive scheme in EEA state or Gibraltar , and member resident in UK or EEA state ) . ( 2 ) paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) contain amendment consequential on the repeal make by paragraph ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) in Part 4 of the Finance Act 2004 — ( a ) in section 244J ( person liable to charge ) , in subsection ( 4 ) , omit " or 244C " , and ( b ) in section 244 k ( meaning of " transfer value " ) , in subsection ( 6 ) , omit " or 244C " . ( 4 ) in the Pension Schemes ( Information Requirements for Qualifying Overseas Pension Schemes , Qualifying recognise Overseas Pension Schemes and Corresponding Relief ) Regulations 2006 ( s . I . 2006 / 208 ) — ( a ) in regulation 3 ( information to be provide to QROPS ) in paragraph ( 2C ) — ( i ) for " neither " substitute " not " , and ( ii ) omit paragraph ( b ) and the " nor " before it , ( b ) in regulation 3af ( information provide by member to QROPS : inward and outward transfer ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) , omit " or 244C " , ( c ) in regulation 3ag ( provision of information about liability for overseas transfer charge ) , in paragraph ( 2 ) ( d ) , omit " or 244C " , and ( d ) in regulation 3ah ( account for overseas transfer charge where change of circumstance ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) ( ii ) , omit " or 244c ( 3 ) " . ( 5 ) in the Registered Pension Schemes ( Provision of Information ) Regulations 2006 ( s . I . 2006 / 567 ) — ( a ) in regulation 11bb ( information provide by member to scheme administrator ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) , omit " or 244C " , and ( b ) in regulation 12a ( information provide by scheme administrator to member ) , in paragraph ( 2 ) ( d ) , omit " or 244C " . ( 6 ) subject to paragraph ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) , the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to transfer make on or after 30 October 2024 . ( 7 ) the amendment do not have effect in relation to a transfer that be make — ( a ) in execution of a request make before 30 October 2024 , and ( b ) before 30 April 2025 . ( 8 ) where — ( a ) the repeal make by paragraph ( 1 ) do not have effect in relation to a transfer , but ( b ) the tax consequence of that transfer depend on the tax consequence of a later transfer in relation to which the repeal do have effect , the tax consequence of the early transfer be to be determine as if the repeal do not have effect in relation to the later transfer . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 29 . pension ( scheme establish or administer in EEA state ) resolve , that provision may be make about pension scheme establish in , or administer by person resident in , EEA state , include ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision take effect in a future year . 30 . alternative finance arrangement ( capital gain tax etc ) resolve , that provision may be make for the purpose of capital gain tax , income tax and corporation tax in relation to alternative finance arrangement where the customer have a beneficial interest in an asset and dispose of some or all of that interest to the financier . 31 . statutory neonatal care pay Resolved , that provision may be make in relation to statutory neonatal care pay . 32 . person not domicile in United Kingdom Resolved , that provision may be make for the purpose of income tax , capital gain tax and inheritance tax for replace rule which operate by reference to the place where a person be domicile with rule which operate by reference to where a person be ( or be not ) resident during a specified period , include — ( a ) provision for a new temporary tax to be chargeable on amount designate by person who have be subject to the remittance basis as a result of be domicile outside the United Kingdom , and ( b ) provision amend the application of the replace rule in case where they continue to have effect . 33 . minor amendment relate to trust Resolved , that provision may be make — ( a ) amend section 645 and 646 of the Income Tax ( Trading and Other Income ) Act 2005 ( settlement ) , ( b ) amend chapter 2 of Part 13 of the Income Tax Act 2007 in relation to section 721 and 728 of that Act and repeal section 742A of that Act ( transfer of asset abroad ) , ( c ) repealing section 1e ( 4 ) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 and amend section 87 g of , and paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to , that Act ( provision relate to trust ) , and ( d ) amend section 80 ( 1 ) and 81 ( 1 ) of the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 ( provision relate to trust ) . 34 . value add tax ( private school fee ) question put , that — ( 1 ) the Value Added Tax Act 1994 be amend in accordance with paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) in Schedule 9 ( exemption ) — ( a ) in Group 6 ( education ) — ( i ) in item 3 ( b ) ( i ) , after " 5a " insert " ( or would be so exempt but for item 1 or 2 of Part 3 ) " , and ( ii ) in item 4 , after " item 1 " insert " ( whether or not that supply also fall within item 1 or 2 of Part 3 ) " , and ( b ) after Part 2 ( the group ) insert — " part 3 - exception " part 3 Item no . 1 the provision of education by a private school , other than — ( a ) the provision of the teaching of English as a foreign language , ( b ) the provision of education in a nursery class , or ( c ) the provision of a high education course . 2 the provision of vocational training by a private school . 3 the provision of board and lodge which be closely related to a supply of a description fall within item 1 or 2 . note : ( 1 ) a " private school " mean an institution which be either — ( a ) a school — ( i ) at which full - time education be provide for pupil of compulsory school age or , in Scotland , school age ( whether or not such education be also provide for pupil under or over that age ) , ( ii ) where fee or other consideration be payable for that provision of full - time education , and ( iii ) which be not a nursery school , or ( b ) an institution — ( i ) which be wholly or mainly concerned with provide education suitable to the requirement of person over compulsory school age ( or , in Scotland , school age ) but under 19 , ( ii ) at which full - time education be provide for such person , ( iii ) where the provision of full - time education fall within sub - paragraph ( ii ) be wholly or mainly provision in respect of which fee or other consideration be payable , and ( iv ) which be not an independent training or learn provider . ( 2 ) in note ( 1 ) ( b ) an " independent training or learn provider " mean an institution — ( a ) at which education or training be provide for person over compulsory school age ( or , in Scotland , school age ) but under 19 under a contract with a relevant contracting authority , and ( b ) where the consideration for the provision fall within paragraph ( a ) be payable by the relevant contracting authority under that contract . ( 3 ) for the purpose of note ( 2 ) , a " relevant contracting authority " mean the Secretary of State , Medr ( Commission for Tertiary Education and Research ) , the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland or Skills Development Scotland . ( 4 ) for the purpose of item 1 and 2 , the provision of education or vocational training at a private school by any eligible body other than a private school be to be treat as provision by a private school if — ( a ) the eligible body and that private school be connect within the meaning of section 1122 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 ( connect person ) , or ( b ) the provision by the eligible body be a result of arrangement the main purpose , or one of the main purpose , of which be to secure that the provision be an exempt supply . ( 5 ) for the purpose of note ( 4 ) — ( a ) " arrangement " include any agreement , understanding , scheme , transaction or series of transaction ( whether or not legally enforceable ) , and ( b ) an " eligible body " have the meaning give by note ( 1 ) to Group 6 . ( 6 ) for the purpose of item 1 — ( a ) a " nursery class " mean a class that be compose wholly ( or almost wholly ) of child who — ( i ) be under compulsory school age or , in Scotland , school age , and ( ii ) would not be expect to attain that age while in that class , and ( b ) a " high education course " — ( i ) in relation to England and Wales , have the meaning give by section 83 ( 1 ) of the Higher Education and Research Act 2017 ; ( ii ) in relation to Scotland , mean a course of any description mention in section 5 ( 3 ) of the Further and Higher Education ( Scotland ) Act 2005 ; ( iii ) in relation to Northern Ireland , mean a course of any description mention in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Further Education ( Northern Ireland ) order 1997 ( s . I . 1997 / 1772 ( N . I . 15 ) ) . ( 7 ) for the purpose of item 2 " vocational training " have the meaning give by note ( 3 ) to Group 6 . ( 8 ) in these note , " compulsory school age " , " pupil " , " school " and " school age " have the meaning give by the Education Act 1996 , the Education ( Scotland ) Act 1980 and the Education and Libraries ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1986 ( s . I . 1986 / 594 ( N . I . 3 ) ) in relation to England and Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland respectively . " ( 3 ) in section 31 ( exempt supply ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , for " schedule 9 " substitute " Part 2 of schedule 9 and it be not of a description specify in Part 3 of that schedule " . ( 4 ) in section 8 ( reverse charge on supply receive from abroad ) , in subsection ( 4A ) , for " schedule 9 " substitute " Part 2 of schedule 9 and not specify in Part 3 of that schedule " . ( 5 ) in section 43 ( group of company ) , in subsection ( 2A ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " schedule 9 " substitute " Part 2 of schedule 9 or be within any of the description specify in Part 3 of that schedule " , and ( b ) in paragraph ( c ) , for " schedule 9 " substitute " Part 2 of Schedule 9 or which do fall within any of the description specify in Part 3 of that schedule " . ( 6 ) paragraph ( 7 ) apply to the provision of education service during a school term if a payment in respect of the service be receive by the person provide the service on or after 29 July 2024 and before 30 October 2024 . ( 7 ) that provision be treat for the purpose of the charge to vat as a supply take place on the later of — ( a ) 1 January 2025 , and ( b ) the first day of that term . accordingly , that provision be not to be regard ( as a result of provision make by or under the Value Added Tax Act 1994 ) as a supply take place at any other time . ( 8 ) but paragraph ( 7 ) do not apply to the provision of education service by a school if the school be approve under section 342 of the Education Act 1996 ( approval of non - maintain special school ) . ( 9 ) in paragraph ( 6 ) to ( 8 ) " the provision of education service " mean a provision of education , vocational training or board and lodge fall within Part 3 of schedule 9 ( exception ) . ( 10 ) paragraph ( 6 ) to ( 9 ) be to be read as if they be contain in the Value Added Tax Act 1994 . ( 11 ) this Resolution come into force on 30 October 2024 and have effect in relation to any provision of education , vocational training or board and lodge on or after 1 January 2025 ( whenever that supply be treat as take place for the purpose of the charge to vat ) . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Kate Dearden Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Simmonds Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 383 , Noes 184 . question accordingly agree to . 35 . stamp duty land tax ( additional dwelling : purchase before 1 April 2025 ) question put , that — ( 1 ) section 1 of the Stamp Duty Land Tax ( Temporary Relief ) Act 2023 ( which provide for reduce rate of stamp duty land tax for transaction before 1 April 2025 ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( which deal with purchase of additional dwelling ) , for the Table A mention there substitute — part of relevant consideration percentage so much as do not exceed £ 250 , 000 5 % so much as exceed £ 250 , 000 but do not exceed £ 925 , 000 10 % so much as exceed £ 925 , 000 but do not exceed £ 1 , 500 , 000 15 % the remainder ( if any ) 17 % " . ( 3 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to land transaction the effective date of which fall on or after 31 October 2024 but before 1 April 2025 . ( 4 ) but the amendment make by this Resolution do not have effect in relation to a land transaction which — ( a ) be effect in pursuance of a contract enter into before 31 October 2024 , and ( b ) be not exclude . ( 5 ) for this purpose a land transaction be exclude if — ( a ) there be any variation of the contract , or assignment of right under the contract , on or after 31 October 2024 , ( b ) the transaction be effect in consequence of the exercise on or after that date of any option , right of pre - emption or similar right , or ( c ) on or after that date , there be an assignment , subsale or other transaction relate to the whole or part of the subject - matter of the contract as a result of which a person other than the purchaser under the contract become entitled to call for a conveyance . ( 6 ) in consequence of the provision make by the precede paragraph , the Stamp Duty Land Tax ( Temporary Relief ) Act 2020 be amend as follow . ( 7 ) in section 1 ( reduce rate of SDLT in relation to land transaction the effective date of which fall in the period begin with 8 July 2020 and end with 30 June 2021 ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 6 ) ( which provide an exception from section 44 ( 8 ) of the Finance Act 2003 where the contract be complete after 30 June 2021 ) , for the word from " that the modification " to the end substitute " the reason give by subsection ( 6a ) " , and ( b ) after subsection ( 6 ) insert — " ( 6a ) for this purpose , the sole reason be either — ( a ) that the modification make by this section have no effect in relation to that conveyance , or ( b ) that both paragraph ( a ) apply and the increase rate provide for by Resolution 35 of the House of Commons ( stamp duty land tax ( additional dwelling : purchase before 1 April 2025 ) ) would have have effect in relation to that conveyance . " ( 8 ) in section 1A ( reduce rate of SDLT in relation to land transaction the effective date of which fall in the period begin with 1 July 2021 and end with 30 September 2021 ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 5 ) ( which provide an exception from section 44 ( 8 ) of the Finance Act 2003 where the contract be complete after 30 September 2021 ) , for the word from " that the modification " to the end substitute " the reason give by subsection ( 5A ) " , and ( b ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5a ) for this purpose , the sole reason be either — ( a ) that the modification make by this section have no effect in relation to that conveyance , or ( b ) that both paragraph ( a ) apply and the increase rate provide for by Resolution 35 of the House of Commons ( stamp duty land tax ( additional dwelling : purchase before 1 April 2025 ) ) would have have effect in relation to that conveyance . " ( 9 ) in a case where — ( a ) as a result of section 44 ( 4 ) of the Finance Act 2003 the effective date of a land transaction be before 31 October 2024 , and ( b ) the contract concern be complete by a conveyance on or after that date , section 44 ( 8 ) of that Act be not to apply in relation to that conveyance if the sole reason that ( but for this paragraph ) it would have apply be that the increase rate provide for by this Resolution would have have effect in relation to that conveyance . ( 10 ) section 44 ( 10 ) of the Finance Act 2003 apply for the purpose of paragraph ( 9 ) . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Kate Dearden Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak James McMurdock Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Paul Waugh Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright David Simmonds Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 378 , Noes 116 . question accordingly agree to . 36 . stamp duty land tax ( additional dwelling : purchase on or after 1 April 2025 ) question put , that provision may be make amend paragraph 1 ( 2 ) of Schedule 4za to the Finance Act 2003 so as to increase the rate of stamp duty land tax mention there . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Keir Mather Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak James McMurdock Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright David Simmonds Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 373 , Noes 110 . question accordingly agree to . 37 . stamp duty land tax ( purchase by company ) resolve , that — ( 1 ) in — ( a ) paragraph 3 ( 1 ) ( a ) of Schedule 4A to the Finance Act 2003 ( high rate of SDLT for purchase by company etc ) , and ( b ) step 4 in section 74 ( 1A ) of the Finance Act 2003 ( exercise of collective right by tenant of flat where condition in paragraph 3 ( 3 ) of that Schedule be meet ) , for " 15 % " substitute " 17 % " . ( 2 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect in relation to land transaction the effective date of which fall on or after 31 October 2024 . ( 3 ) but the amendment make by this Resolution do not have effect in relation to a land transaction which — ( a ) be effect in pursuance of a contract enter into before that date , and ( b ) be not exclude . ( 4 ) for this purpose a land transaction be exclude if — ( a ) there be any variation of the contract , or assignment of right under the contract , on or after 31 October 2024 , ( b ) the transaction be effect in consequence of the exercise on or after that date of any option , right of pre - emption or similar right , or ( c ) on or after that date , there be an assignment , subsale or other transaction relate to the whole or part of the subject - matter of the contract as a result of which a person other than the purchaser under the contract become entitled to call for a conveyance . ( 5 ) in a case where — ( a ) as a result of section 44 ( 4 ) of the Finance Act 2003 the effective date of a land transaction be before 31 October 2024 , and ( b ) the contract concern be complete by a conveyance on or after that date , section 44 ( 8 ) of that Act be not to apply in relation to that conveyance if the sole reason that ( but for this paragraph ) it would have apply be that the increase rate provide for by this Resolution would have have effect in relation to that conveyance . ( 6 ) section 44 ( 10 ) of the Finance Act 2003 apply for the purpose of paragraph ( 5 ) . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 38 . annual tax on envelop dwelling ( alternative finance arrangement ) resolve , that provision may be make for the purpose of annual tax on envelop dwelling in relation to land sell to a financial institution and lease under alternative finance arrangement . 39 . stamp taxis ( testing of financial market infrastructure technology or practice ) resolve , that provision may be make conferring power on the Treasury to make provision about stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax in connection with regulation make under section 13 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 . 40 . inheritance tax ( nil rate band etc for tax year 2028 - 29 and 2029 - 30 ) Resolved , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make amend section 86 of the Finance Act 2021 so that the nil rate band , the residential enhancement and the taper threshold remain at their current amount for the tax year 2028 - 29 and 2029 - 30 . 41 . inheritance tax ( employee benefit trust ) resolve , that provision may be make for the purpose of inheritance tax in relation to property become subject to a trust for the benefit of employee . 42 . inheritance tax ( agricultural land subject to environmental management agreement ) resolve , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make for treat land and building as agricultural property for the purpose of agricultural property relief from inheritance tax where the land be subject to an agreement enter into with a public authority for the purpose of protect , restore or enhance the natural environment , or natural resource , of land or water . 43 . inheritance tax ( statement about national saving account ) resolve , that provision may be make revoke regulation 55 of the National Savings Regulations 2015 and regulation 90 of the National Savings ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2015 . 44 . rate of alcohol duty question put , that — ( 1 ) Part 2 of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 ( alcohol duty ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for schedule 7 ( main rate ) substitute — " schedule 7 rate of ALCOHOL DUTY alcoholic strength of alcoholic product rate of duty per litre of alcohol in the product Less than 3 . 5 % £ 9 . 61 at least 3 . 5 % but less than 8 . 5 % see table 2 at least 8 . 5 % but not exceed 22 % £ 29 . 54 exceed 22 % £ 32 . 79 description of alcoholic product ( of an alcoholic strength of at least 3 . 5 % but less than 8 . 5 % ) rate of duty per litre of alcohol in the product still cider sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength not exceed 5 . 5 % £ 10 . 02 beer £ 21 . 78 spirit , wine and other ferment product sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength exceed 5 . 5 % £ 25 . 67 " . ( 3 ) for schedule 8 ( reduce rate for qualify draught product ) substitute — " SCHEDULE 8 qualifying draught product : reduce rate Description of alcoholic product rate of duty per litre of alcohol in the product alcoholic product of an alcoholic strength of less than 3 . 5 % £ 8 . 28 still cider of an alcoholic strength of at least 3 . 5 % sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength of at least 3 . 5 % but not exceed 5 . 5 % £ 8 . 63 beer , spirit , wine and other ferment product of an alcoholic strength of at least 3 . 5 % ( but less than 8 . 5 % ) sparkling cider of an alcoholic strength exceed 5 . 5 % £ 18 . 76 " . ( 4 ) for schedule 9 ( duty discount for small producer alcoholic product ) — " schedule 9 small producer alcoholic product : duty discount - part 1 alcoholic product , other than qualify draught product , of an alcoholic strength of less than 8 . 5 % discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 9 . 61 - 2 5 50 2 . 44 48 . 05 3 50 100 1 . 47 157 . 99 4 100 200 0 . 49 231 . 28 5 200 600 - 280 . 15 6 600 1000 - 280 . 15 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 08 280 . 15 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 6 . 35 - 2 5 50 2 . 44 31 . 76 3 50 100 1 . 47 141 . 70 4 100 200 0 . 49 214 . 99 5 200 600 - 263 . 86 6 600 1000 - 263 . 86 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 08 263 . 86 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 10 . 02 - 2 5 50 2 . 55 50 . 10 3 50 100 1 . 53 164 . 78 4 100 200 0 . 51 241 . 24 5 200 600 - 292 . 21 6 600 1000 - 292 . 21 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 08 292 . 21 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 19 . 94 - 2 5 112 . 5 11 . 08 99 . 68 3 112 . 5 225 9 . 97 1290 . 33 4 225 450 5 . 54 2411 . 75 5 450 900 3 . 32 3657 . 77 6 900 1350 - 5153 . 00 7 1350 4500 - 1 . 64 5153 . 00 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 25 . 67 - 2 5 50 2 . 61 128 . 35 3 50 100 2 . 61 245 . 84 4 100 200 1 . 31 376 . 37 5 200 600 - 506 . 91 6 600 1000 - 506 . 91 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 14 506 . 91 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 20 . 89 - 2 5 50 2 . 61 104 . 43 3 50 100 2 . 61 221 . 92 4 100 200 1 . 31 352 . 46 5 200 600 - 483 . 00 6 600 1000 - 483 . 00 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 14 483 . 00 part 2 - qualifying draught product of an alcoholic strength of less than 8 . 5 % part 2 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 8 . 28 - 2 5 50 2 . 11 41 . 40 3 50 100 1 . 26 136 . 13 4 100 200 0 . 42 199 . 28 5 200 600 - 241 . 38 6 600 1000 - 241 . 38 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 07 241 . 38 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 5 . 47 - 2 5 50 2 . 11 27 . 37 3 50 100 1 . 26 122 . 09 4 100 200 0 . 42 185 . 24 5 200 600 - 227 . 34 6 600 1000 - 227 . 34 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 06 227 . 34 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 8 . 63 - 2 5 50 2 . 20 43 . 15 3 50 100 1 . 32 141 . 93 4 100 200 0 . 44 207 . 78 5 200 600 - 251 . 68 6 600 1000 - 251 . 68 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 07 251 . 68 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 17 . 17 - 2 5 112 . 5 9 . 54 85 . 86 3 112 . 5 225 8 . 59 1111 . 41 4 225 450 4 . 77 2077 . 34 5 450 900 2 . 86 3150 . 59 6 900 1350 - 4438 . 49 7 1350 4500 - 1 . 41 4438 . 49 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 18 . 76 - 2 5 50 1 . 91 93 . 80 3 50 100 1 . 91 179 . 66 4 100 200 0 . 95 275 . 06 5 200 600 - 370 . 46 6 600 1000 - 370 . 46 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 11 370 . 46 discount band Start threshold ( hectolitre ) end threshold ( hectolitre ) marginal discount ( £ ) cumulative discount ( £ ) 1 0 5 15 . 26 - 2 5 50 1 . 91 76 . 32 3 50 100 1 . 91 162 . 18 4 100 200 0 . 95 257 . 58 5 200 600 - 352 . 98 6 600 1000 - 352 . 98 7 1000 4500 - 0 . 10 352 . 98 " . ( 5 ) in consequence of the amendment make by the precede paragraph of this Resolution , in Schedule 2 to the Travellers ' allowance order 1994 ( which provide in certain circumstance for a simplified calculation of excise duty on good bring into Great Britain ) — ( a ) in the entry relate to beer , in the second column , for " £ 0 . 88 " substitute " £ 0 . 91 " , ( b ) in the entry relate to still wine , in the second column , for " £ 3 . 28 " substitute " £ 3 . 40 " , ( c ) in the entry relate to sparkle wine , in the second column , for " £ 3 . 28 " substitute " £ 3 . 40 " , ( d ) in the entry relate to cider , in the second column , for " £ 0 . 44 " substitute " £ 0 . 46 " , ( e ) in the entry relate to sparkle cider of an alcoholic strength not exceed 5 . 5 % by volume , in the second column , for " £ 0 . 44 " substitute " £ 0 . 46 " , ( f ) in the entry relate to sparkle cider of an alcoholic strength exceed 5 . 5 % but less than 8 . 5 % by volume , in the second column , for " £ 1 . 73 " substitute " £ 1 . 80 " , ( g ) in the entry relate to other ferment product , in the second column , for " £ 3 . 28 " substitute " £ 3 . 40 " , and ( h ) in the entry relate to spirit , in the second column , for " £ 11 . 88 " substitute " £ 12 . 30 " . ( 6 ) the amendment make by this Resolution come into force on 1 February 2025 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Gerald Jones Gideon Amos Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Andrew Bowie Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Harriet Cross Adam Dance Edward Davey Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Seamus Logan James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Mike Martin Charlie Maynard Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Cameron Thomas Thomas Tugendhat Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Kirsty Blackman Tessa Munt the House divide : Ayes 371 , Noes 77 . question accordingly agree to . 45 . abolition of duty stamp for alcoholic product resolve , that provision be make repeal section 112 of , and Schedule 12 to , the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 . 46 . rate of tobacco product duty Resolved , that — ( 1 ) in Schedule 1 to the Tobacco Products Duty Act 1979 ( table of rate of tobacco product duty ) , for the Table substitute — 1 Cigarettes an amount equal to the high of — ( a ) 16 . 5 % of the retail price plus £ 334 . 58 per thousand cigarette , or ( b ) £ 446 . 67 per thousand cigarette . 2 cigar £ 417 . 33 per kilogram 3 hand - roll tobacco £ 476 . 83 per kilogram 4 other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco £ 183 . 49 per kilogram 5 Tobacco for heat £ 343 . 91 per kilogram " . ( 2 ) in consequence of the provision make by paragraph ( 1 ) , in Schedule 2 to the Travellers ' allowance order 1994 ( which provide in certain circumstance for a simplified calculation of excise duty on good bring into Great Britain ) — ( a ) in the entry relate to cigarette , for " £ 422 . 80 " substitute " £ 446 . 67 " , ( b ) in the entry relate to hand roll tobacco , for " £ 412 . 32 " substitute " £ 476 . 83 " , ( c ) in the entry relate to other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco , for " £ 173 . 68 " substitute " £ 183 . 49 " , ( d ) in the entry relate to cigar , for " £ 395 . 03 " substitute " £ 417 . 33 " , ( e ) in the entry relate to cigarillos , for " £ 395 . 03 " substitute " £ 417 . 33 " , and ( f ) in the entry relate to tobacco for heating , for " £ 97 . 66 " substitute " £ 103 . 17 " . ( 3 ) the amendment make by this Resolution come into force at 6 pm on 30 October 2024 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 47 . rate of vehicle excise duty resolve , that provision may be make increase the rate of vehicle excise duty in Schedule 1 to the Vehicle Excise and Registration Act 1994 . 48 . Vehicle excise duty ( zero - emission vehicle etc ) resolve , that provision may be make for the purpose of vehicle excise duty — ( a ) align the treatment of zero - emission vehicle with electronically propel vehicle , and ( b ) treating in specify circumstance an EU certificate of conformity or UK approval certificate as specify a co2 figure of zero . 49 . rate of HGV road user levy Resolved , that provision may be make increase the rate of HGV road user levy . 50 . rate of air passenger duty ( current and future year ) resolve , that provision may be make increase the rate of air passenger duty , include ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision take effect in a future year . 51 . rate of climate change levy ( future year ) resolve , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make take effect in a future year increase the rate of climate change levy . 52 . rate of landfill tax Resolved , that provision may be make increase the rate of landfill tax . 53 . rate of aggregate levy Resolved , that provision may be make increase the rate of aggregate levy . 54 . rate of plastic packaging tax Resolved , that provision may be make increase the rate of plastic packaging tax . 55 . rate of soft drink industry levy Resolved , that provision may be make increase the rate of soft drink industry levy . 56 . avoidance involve limited liability partnership resolve , that — ( 1 ) after section 59a of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 insert — " 59AA limited liability partnership : deem disposal ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a member of a limited liability partnership ( the " LLP " ) contribute an asset to the LLP in circumstance where section 59a ( 1 ) apply in relation to the LLP , and ( b ) the LLP dispose of the asset , or part of the asset , to the member , or a person connect with the member , in circumstance where section 59a ( 1 ) have cease to apply in relation to the LLP . ( 2 ) the asset be deem to have be dispose of and reacquire by the member — ( a ) immediately before it be contribute to the LLP , and ( b ) for a consideration equal to its market value at that time . ( 3 ) but — ( a ) any chargeable gain or allowable loss accrue under subsection ( 2 ) be to be treat as accrue at the time the asset , or part of the asset , be dispose of by the llp ( as describe in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ) , and ( b ) for the purpose of Schedule 2 to the Finance Act 2019 ( return for disposal of UK land ) , the disposal under subsection ( 2 ) be to be treat as complete at that time . ( 4 ) any chargeable gain accrue on the deemed disposal be to be reduce by an amount that be just and reasonable , have regard to any chargeable gain that have otherwise accrue to the member by reference to the asset or part of the asset . " ( 2 ) the amendment make by this Resolution have effect from 30 October 2024 but do not have effect where section 59a ( 1 ) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 cease to apply in relation to the limited liability partnership before that date . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . 57 . loan to participator resolve , that provision may be make repeal section 464B of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 . 58 . OECD crypto - asset reporting framework Resolved , that ( notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the practice of the House relate to the matter that may be include in Finance Bills ) provision may be make amend section 349 ( 2 ) of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 to add a reference to the OECD Crypto - Asset Reporting Framework ( publish in 2022 ) . 59 . vaping product ( prepare for new tax ) resolve , that provision may be make conferring power on the Commissioners for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to prepare for a new tax relate to vape product . 60 . carbon border adjustment mechanism ( prepare for new tax etc ) resolve , that provision may be make — ( a ) confer power on the Commissioners for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to prepare for a new tax relate to emission embody in import good , and ( b ) about the disclosure of information for any purpose connect with the new tax . 61 . correction of wrong cross - reference etc Resolved , that provision may be make correct error in section 151I ( 1 ) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 , section 1179AE ( 2 ) of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 and section 4 ( 2 ) ( a ) of the Taxation ( post - transition Period ) Act 2020 . 62 . incidental provision etc resolved , that provision ( include provision have retrospective effect ) may be make which be incidental to , or consequential on or otherwise connect with , provision authorise by any other Resolution . FINANCE Bill ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . resolve , that , for the purpose of any Act of the present Session relate to finance , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of — ( a ) any expenditure incur by the Commissioners for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs which be attributable to amendment of Part 14a of the Corporation Tax Act 2009 , and ( b ) any expenditure incur by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State in connection with the disclosure of information for any purpose connect with a new tax relate to emission embody in import good . order , that a Bill be bring in upon the foregoing resolution ; that the Chairman of Ways and Means , the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Darren Jones , Tulip Siddiq and James Murray bring in the Bill . Finance Bill Presentation and First read James Murray accordingly present a Bill to make provision in connection with finance . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 11 November , and to be print ( Bill 125 ) . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) , Constitutional Law that the draft Scotland Act 1998 ( Specification of Devolved Tax ) ( Building Safety ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 September , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) , Immigration that the draft Immigration and Nationality ( Fees ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 12 September , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) , Animals that the draft Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Enforcement Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 12 September , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) , Electronic Communications that the draft Online Safety Act 2023 ( Priority Offences ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 12 September , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) , Public Passenger Transport that the draft Franchising Schemes ( Franchising Authorities ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 9 September , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . Road Fuel Market Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) the topic for this , my first Adjournment debate , be fair fuel pricing , an issue that have be raise repeatedly with I by resident of Dunfermline and Dollar since I be elect in July , and that have be examine by previous government of all colour and by the Competition and Markets Authority . in July this year , the CMA say that weaken competition in the fuel sector be negatively impact driver ’ wallet . its examination find that , in 2023 alone , high price cost motorist a staggering amount of money . in the midst of a cost of living crisis , that seem especially egregious . the CMA ' s warning be not , however , the first or even the second significant warning on fuel pricing . after launch a market study in July 2022 , which report a year later and make a series of recommendation to protect consumer , the CMA have issue three interim report . in those report , the CMA find that driver be overcharge at the petrol pump by £ 900 million in 2022 and a furth £ 1 . 6 billion in 2023 . that mean that , in just two year , driver be overcharge by some £ 2 . 5 billion on their fuel in the midst of a cost of living crisis . that be shameful profiteering , which we know hit lower - pay worker and family the hard . the cost of living crisis have mean that change in the price of utility and fuel have be sorely feel . we have long understand the argument that rural driver might pay more for fuel due to the increase logistical cost and additional staffing cost . I do not always find such argument convincing , but they at least have a perceive logic to they . however , fuel be not a luxury ; it be a lifeline . it enable people to commute to work , take their child to school , and provide care and support to love one . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on bring the debate forward . I speak to he beforehand ; he and I share the same concern in relation to fuel . driver in rural constituency , such as our of Strangford and Dunfermline and Dollar , be very much at the mercy of those who seek to charge more for fuel . some have to travel far to get cheap fuel , and it be debatable whether that be competitive or even logical . do he agree that when it come to competitiveness , we must have fairness and equality for every postcode , and recognise that price in Kircubbin , the Ards peninsula and Dunfermline be similar , yet in Manchester fuel be almost 8p a litre cheap ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention ; I believe that take an intervention from he be a rite of passage in this House . I could not agree more , particularly in relation to constituency such as my own , where there be a mix of urban and rural area and the rural pricing hit particularly hard . those be often area that have poor public transport as well , so the impact be feel even more . Most small business rely on efficient and cost - effective transport for their delivery , staff and customer , and that often mean run and fuel a car or van . high price at the pump have a direct impact on small business and squeeze already thin margin in the ongoing crisis in the cost of live and of do business . research by the Federation of Small Businesses show that more than three quarter of small business see their cost go up in the last quarter , and of those more than a quarter say that the increase price of fuel be one of the main reason for that rise . my constituency be just 20 mile from Scotland ' s oil refinery in Grangemouth , yet resident in Dunfermline consistently pay a full 5p a litre more than those nearby in Glasgow , Stirling , Glenrothes or Kirkcaldy . that be despite the local supermarket Tesco and Asda , as well as a host of other outlet in the city such as BP , all supposedly compete to be the driver ' s choice . what we see in Dunfermline be a cluster of price around the same level within the city , and price cluster around Dunfermline as well , with all supermarket and supplier at roughly the same price . that be not local competition ; that be a local cartel . even bad , my constituent be pay 134 . 7p per litre at Asda in Dunfermline , whereas in the Asda Bridge of Dee store in Aberdeen , 112 mile far north , they pay just 121 . 7p at the pump . never mind 5p — that be a difference of 13p per litre . in rural and semi - rural area , as be say early , where public transport infrastructure be less entrenched — certainly in my constituency , where the train service be frequently short - form , delay or cancel at short notice — fuel be not a choice ; it be a necessity . my Dunfermline and Dollar constituent rely on their vehicle more heavily , yet often face the high price . that be an issue of basic fairness . I be all in favour of market force be use to shape price , but not where the market be demonstrably break , and fuel pricing have all the sign of a broken market mechanism . it be nothing short of outrageous that the most essential aspect of daily life be subject to broken competition , a non - function market and what appear to be price cluster by retailer . across the constituency , small business and sole trader such as plumber , builder , florist and taxi driver , along with family , be pay the price . as we might say in Scotland , small business be be pump at the pump . like many fellow member of this House , I welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement in the Budget , which we pass this evening , on freeze fuel duty , which will help people who be still feel the impact of out - of - control inflation on their take - home pay . however , while this pricing behaviour by retailer continue , I be concerned that the full benefit of the Government ' s effort to keep down fuel cost will not be pass on to my constituent . to help the House understand fully the consequence of this kind of price clustering and the effect of a broken market , I will share the experience of one of my constituent , Aimee , a 20 - year - old apprentice who write to I last month . Aimee be proud to secure her apprenticeship , which she start this autumn , earn the apprentice minimum wage of £ 6 . 40 an hour . with just over £ 1 , 000 a month to live on , Aimee use £ 200 a month of her hard - earn wage on fuel . she get her petrol at Asda in Dunfermline where , as I mention , unleade be 134 . 7p per litre yesterday . her £ 200 be buy her 148 . 48 litre of fuel . however , if Aimee be buy her petrol at Asda Bridge of Dee in Aberdeen , where unleaded be 121 . 7p a litre yesterday , she would have pay just £ 180 for the same amount of fuel . that be a full £ 20 a month difference . over the course of a year , Aimee would have to work an additional 36 hour just to pay for the difference in price of petrol for she to get to and from work . that be not justifiable . Aimee , who be learn while earn , be experience a real - term pay cut differential due not to anything she have do , but to the effect of this broken market . we encourage the use of green transport , but we have see the failure of the SNP Government and ScotRail to provide Fife with a reliable service , so that be not an option for people such as Aimee , with short train and unreliable service , particularly in West Fife . one step that the SNP - Green coalition at Holyrood do take be to remove peak fare , which see a 6 . 8 % increase in train usage . however , that encouragement of behavioural change be swiftly remove — just like the Scottish Greens from the coalition — when the financial incentive of fair train fare be also remove . behavioural change of a positive nature do not happen overnight , but the switch back to the car from the train do , and have . that short - sighted decision — like the short - form train that often serve the region — have put people off use green transport . have be let down by the Scottish Government , commuter in Dunfermline be be take advantage of by fuel retailer and market competition in my constituency . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . I have also notice in my constituency that many fuel retailer be not pass on benefit to driver and , as he recognise , the Competition and Markets Authority have say that those competition practice be unfair . I notice that the Government be take forward a fuel finder app , which will allow customer and driver to find out more information about different retailer and will drive competition . do he agree that the Government should do that as soon as possible , so we can get that transparent and accurate information , and driver in my constituency and other be able to get saving on fuel ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I will come on shortly to the action the Government be take and where I think there be still more to be do . the impact go beyond personal strain ; it create an uneven playing field for business , hinder economic growth by harm small business owner in Dunfermline who rely on vehicle for operation . in this Budget the Government have take a wide range of step to help work people across the country , include in my constituency : a wage rise for 200 , 000 scot , record funding to Scotland , fix the mineworker ' pension scheme , protect the pension triple lock and , as I have say , commit fund to maintain the freeze on fuel duty that the Conservatives fail to do and which would otherwise have see people like my constituent Aimee pay even more for fuel . I be also pleased that this new Government have confirm that they will implement two of the CMA ' s recommendation : an open datum scheme call fuel finder that will require all fuel retailer to share their price in real time , and a road fuel monitor function that will report on the state of competition in the road fuel market . scenario modelling by the CMA suggest that pump price could reduce by between 1p and 6p a litre as a result of these measure , help to ensure that driver get a fair deal for fuel across the UK . I be keen to hear from the Minister what more she think the Government can do specifically around ensure a fair and functional fuel market , so that pricing be fair and not allow to cluster into local price - fixing , as see in Dunfermline . fuel price be undoubtedly subject to a range of external factor , as we have see over the year , but by increase transparency and ensure real competition between forecourt , we can have a function market where competition help drive down price . however , nothing be prevent fuel retailer from choose to do the right thing right now and to stabilise fuel price , to remove price cluster like we see in Dunfermline and to ensure that people such as Aimee be not financially penalise for where they live . I hope this Government will build on the excellent start they have make to protect work people and small business , and I hope we will be able to do more to stop fuel retailer profiteer on the back of hard - work people up and down the country . I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) on secure this debate , make such an excellent contribution and champion the need of consumer , both in his constituency and across the UK , where so many people have the same struggle . I welcome the opportunity to discuss the important matter of the road fuel market . this Government be commit to fix the foundation of the economy , deliver change by protect work people and rebuild Britain . it can not be the case that fuel retailer register record profit and do not pass on saving when the burden be be unduly feel by hard - work family and business . that be why I be so grateful for my hon . friend ' s story about Aimee . her story be one that I suspect be familiar to many other mp from their constituency . we be commit to support people with the cost of living and the cost of fuel . I agree with my hon . friend that , for so many , vehicle be more than just a means of transport ; they be a lifeline . they play an integral role in connect work people , family , community and business , especially in rural area . in the case of young people , include Aimee , their car be a means to forge a career and earn meaningful , well - pay work . this Government be commit to deliver for driver , but also provide a range of transport option to make it possible that people such as Aimee should not have to worry about how they get to work . that be why this Government make the decision at last week ' s Budget to freeze fuel duty for a further year , which I know my hon . friend have welcome . I commend his dedication to campaign against high fuel price and for family , work people and small business to get a fair deal on fuel across his constituency and Scotland . it be imperative that we have a well - function , transparent and competitive road fuel market . we want to ensure that driver can get a fair price for their fuel , and that fuel retailer remain transparent and do not overcharge . we expect all fuel retailer to pass on any saving at the pump . as my hon . friend set out , the Competition and Markets Authority publish its road fuel market study in July 2023 , and it find that competition across the retail market have weaken . the CMA find problem in relation to three aspect of the retail market : national , local and motorway . at a national level , the CMA find that retail margin have rise significantly since 2019 , with the supermarket retailer follow a similar trend of increase margin on fuel . the historic price leader in the market — primarily Asda , but also morrison to some extent — have take a less aggressive approach to pricing and have significantly increase their margin over recent year . the rest of the fuel retailer take a passive approach and follow that trend . at a local level , the CMA find significant price difference between local area , with low price at a forecourt typically associate with have a supermarket competitor nearby . I know that my hon . friend be concerned about that and recently raise it with the Leader of the House at business question , as he have do today in this debate by share Aimee ' s experience . on motorway pricing , the CMA find that driver without access to fuel card , which account for 20 % to 25 % of fuel sale on motorway , be pay significantly more to fill up at a motorway service area than they would elsewhere , due to limited competitive pressure . as a result of those factor , the CMA find that driver have be pay more than would otherwise have be the case . it be estimate that the financial impact of the 3 % increase in average supermarket fuel margin from 2019 to 2022 result in a combine additional cost of around £ 900 million for customer of the four supermarket fuel retailer in 2022 alone . that be equivalent to approximately £ 75 million a month for this period . while fuel price be now a lot low than at the all - time peak in July 2022 , weakened competition persist . the CMA ' s late monitoring update in July this year estimate that the increase in retailer ' fuel margin compare with 2019 result in increase fuel cost for driver in 2023 of over £ 1 . 6 billion . weak competition be still fail consumer ; that be hugely concern . the price of petrol and diesel be an important issue . when price be high , the impact be feel by everyone . we expect all fuel retailer to pass on any saving at the pump . as my hon . Friend say , to address these issue , the CMA make recommendation for the Government to implement an open data scheme for fuel price , require retailer to share their price on a real - time basis and allow driver to be well inform on price and easily compare price , and to launch an ongoing monitoring function for the retail market to assess how well competition be work . the Government accept those recommendation . on the cma ' s first recommendation , as part of the Budget last week , we confirm that we will implement a statutory open datum scheme call fuel finder . it will require all retail petrol filling station in the UK to report price and when a fuel become unavailable within 30 minute of a change . the datum will be share openly and freely to third party so that it can be incorporate into their price comparison website or app , sat - navs and other consumer - face product that consumer can use . fuel finder will empower driver to compare price more easily and make more inform decision on where to buy their petrol and diesel . that will increase pressure on fuel retailer to compete strongly to attract consumer by lower their price or improve their service at the forecourt . the Government be commit to implement fuel finder as quickly as possible . we will begin procurement for the fuel finder aggregator in early - 2025 . the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill that the Government have introduce will provide the legislative basis to set up fuel finder . subject to parliamentary timing , we aim to launch fuel finder by the end of 2025 . on the cma ' s second recommendation , it will receive statutory information - gather power through the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 to undertake the permanent monitoring function . we be aim to commence those provision by January 2025 . the CMA will be able to assess and monitor the state of competition in the retail market , both nationally and locally , provide ongoing scrutiny of price and advise the government if further intervention be need to protect consumer . the transition from fossil fuel to zero carbon vehicle be likely to lead to further risk of weakening competition in the remain fossil fuel - base road fuel market . the transition be likely to be feel particularly by less well - off consumer and those live in rural area . the CMA will be able to monitor the market through the transition and benefit consumer by ensure that the market continue to function properly . the CMA will therefore publish an annual report on the state of competition in the sector , three short update on price , cost and margin , and information on price trend across the UK and over time . take together , fuel finder and the CMA monitoring function will reinforce each other in provide a new source of competitive pressure in favour of great competition in the road fuel retail sector . one of the interesting thing bring to my attention by resident in Harrogate and Knaresborough be that while we be quite rural , be on the periphery of North Yorkshire , there be an aspect about be an area with tourist , along with high housing and other cost more generally . when we be talk about try to reduce fuel price , can the Minister give any further information on what consideration will be give to regional and inter - regional inequality in pricing ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point . that be why we need to start monitor the situation properly . when we all have access to that real - time datum and can understand exactly what be happen — the CMA can be monitor that and report to the Government — the Government can say , " actually there be a more systemic problem here that we need to tackle . we need to make more intervention . " the Government stand ready to look to do those thing , but the first stage of have the datum available so that we understand properly what be go on will help we to do that . fuel price be inevitably uncertain and sensitive to wide global factor , but our publish impact assessment estimate that increase transparency and encourage competition between petrol filling station could result in fuel cost saving for driver total £ 7 . 7 billion over 10 year . that amount to saving of 1p to 6p per litre at the pump . I be sure that my hon . friend and other will agree that that would be welcome . in addition , at the Budget the Chancellor announce that the Government be extend the temporary 5p cut to fuel duty rate for a further 12 month , until 22 March 2026 . alongside that , the Government will not increase 2026 rate in line with the retail price index , or RPI . take together , that be a tax cut worth £ 3 billion in 2025 - 26 . the freeze in fuel duty will save the average car driver £ 59 in 2025 - 26 . these action have be welcome by stakeholder such as the RAC and the AA . let I assure the House and my hon . friend that the Government be commit to deliver for driver . our ultimate goal be to increase the level of transparency for consumer and encourage fuel retailer to become more competitive . that way , consumer will send the clear signal to they that they will not pay extortionate price when give a range of option to choose from . we be confident that these measure will help facilitate a competitive road fuel retail market , increase price transparency and protect consumer interest . I thank hon . friend again for secure this important debate . question put and agree to . House adjourn .