Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — Public Services what step his Department be take with the Northern Ireland Executive to help improve public service in Northern Ireland . what recent discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on improve public service . what recent discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on improve public service . what recent discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on improve public service . what recent discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on improve public service . I regularly meet Northern Ireland Ministers to discuss the share challenge we face in improve public service , and the Government will do everything we can to help . last week , I meet the new Finance Minister , and we both expect to be in a position soon to announce progress on funding to help with the transformation of public service . the Northern Ireland Executive be mean to agree their programme for Government today , but apparently the meeting be cancel at the last minute . the Secretary of State refer to the transformation fund ; £ 245 million be allocate to it over a year ago , but it remain unspent . the transformation board that be mean to be manage that fund be still interim . with every party in Northern Ireland clamour for transformation , and the Secretary of State and his ministerial team call for transformation of public service , will the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland intervene with the Executive , and tell they to get on with it ? I hope very much that the programme for Government will be agree as soon as possible ; it be the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Executive , and I look forward to read it . a number of bid be submit for transformation funding . they have be carefully look at by the interim board and , as I indicate a moment ago , I look forward , together with the Finance Minister , to announce the result of that work soon . last December , the Royal College of Nursing Northern Ireland reveal that there be a severe shortage of nursing staff in the north — there be almost 2 , 000 vacancy in the sector — as well as concern about retention . what step be the Northern Ireland Office take to support the Executive in provide safe level of staffing in Northern Ireland , include by tackle staffing pressure , low pay and unacceptable working condition ? I share the concern that my hon . friend express about the number of vacancy . the single most important thing that the Government have do be allocate for next year a record sum to the Northern Ireland Executive of £ 18 . 2 billion , which be an increase of £ 1 . 5 billion . the resource be there , and it be for the Northern Ireland Executive to decide how they will use they . I welcome what the Secretary of State have say about public service reform be a share challenge . do he agree with I that it be in the interest of patient , both in Northern Ireland and in England , to share knowledge of what work , and good practice ? I agree absolutely with my hon . friend . indeed , I discuss that with Mike Nesbitt , the Health Minister , when I meet he recently . I ask he what support and help we can give he , but we can all learn from each other across the United Kingdom . when the Secretary of State have his discussion with the Executive , will he look to the example of Wales and its social partnership model ? government , public sector worker and union be work collaboratively and be in positive discussion to bring about real change and harmony in the delivery of public service . I have not look specifically at the social partnership model in Wales to which he refer , but I look forward to learn more about it ; it sound very interesting . as I have indicate , we have a lot to learn from each other . the proactive approach that the Secretary of State have set out be an important step change from the approach take by the previous Government . do he agree that stabilise and transform the health service in Northern Ireland be now the priority ? it certainly be . one have only to look at the waiting list figure in Northern Ireland : some 52 % of those wait for a first consultant ' s appointment wait for more than a year ; the figure in England be 4 % . the First Minister recently describe the state of the health service in Northern Ireland as " diabolical " . I be absolutely clear that Ministers and the Executive understand that , and I very much support the programme that the new Health Minister be seek to put in place to deal with that . would the Secretary of State agree that the appointment of Mike Farrar as chief executive and head of the Northern Ireland health service — an external appointment — be a positive move , and a good example of the Executive get on with it , despite comment that have be make ? I do agree . he have great expertise and knowledge , and I be sure that it will be use for the benefit of people in Northern Ireland , particularly patient wait for appointment . my daughter live in Donegal . when her two little boy be bear , she have the choice of they be bear in Derry or Sligo — on either side of the border . the Republic of Ireland have introduce an initiative call share island . that be not a united Ireland , but it work in improve service . will the Government look at its success , and consider how Scotland might work in a similar way to Northern Ireland , for the benefit of service ? as I understand it , there be a long - establish arrangement under which people can move from one side of the border to the other to seek care , particularly in Donegal and Derry / Londonderry . thing would be slightly different in Scotland , for physical reason , but once again , I be sure that all opportunity that can be take to help people get the care they need would be welcome . the Secretary of State will be aware that it have be a year since the Executive be finally re - establish . in that time , they have still be unable to agree a programme for Government . this morning , we learn that today ' s meeting to agree it have be move again . do he agree that , for the sake of the people of Northern Ireland , it be time they get on with it ? as I indicate a moment ago , I look forward to the Executive adopt a programme for Government . I be aware of what happen early today ; I be confident that another meeting will be arrange , and I look forward to see the programme adopt . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Government ' s decision to repeal the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 will mean reopen many inquest and civil case . many of those case will impact on the police . do the Secretary of State accept that that will mean a significant cost to the Police Service of Northern Ireland ? as the hon . Gentleman be aware , the legacy legislation that the previous Government pass have be find to be flawed and unlawful in a number of respect , and it fall to this Government to clean up the mess that the last Government leave . I be in the process of consultation with many party . I have already indicate to the House the proposal that I put forward in the remedial order , and have say that I propose bring legislation before the House when parliamentary time allow . it be important that people be able to pursue civil case , and the ban on they by the last Government have be find to be unlawful . why should people in Northern Ireland not be entitle to an inquest ? my question be about the liability that the Police Service of Northern Ireland might be under follow the Secretary of State ' s decision . police number in Northern Ireland be at their low ever . two week ago , Policy Exchange estimate that the cost to the psni of the repeal of the legacy Act might well stretch to hundred of million of pound . if that be the case , will the Government step in to support the psni , or be they content to see a reduction in frontline policing and national security ? the Government have provide additional funding to the psni in the autumn statement through the additional security fund . I have read the Policy Exchange report , and it contain a lot of speculation about number . the fact remain that the legislation support by the Government , of which the hon . Gentleman be part , have not work ; it be flawed and find to be unlawful . I be afraid that the opposition will have to recognise that at some point , and it need to be fix . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . pharmacy in Northern Ireland be in a declare state of crisis . pharmacist be have to dip into their saving just to stay afloat , and they be cut staff number and opening hour . the National Pharmacy Association , which represent 6 , 500 community pharmacy , have warn that its member may have to far cut opening hour , halt home delivery and reduce local support service , and that warning be amplify in Northern Ireland . what conversation have the Secretary of State have with the Northern Ireland Executive to safeguard access to crucial pharmacy service across rural and urban region ? do he agree that an urgent impact assessment on pharmacy underfunding be require to highlight the scale of the crisis for community pharmacy , which provide vital - to - life service ? that issue do not figure in the discussion I have recently with the NI Health Minister , but I have no doubt that it will do so in the future , and I will take the matter up . many ministerial decision be important in get public service deliver , but so too be back - up by the civil service . there be some concern about the level of expertise in the civil service in Northern Ireland . in the inquiry into the renewable heat incentive , the permanent secretary admit that the civil service be not able to give timely advice to Ministers , and have not give accurate advice . what can the Secretary of State do to ensure that the gap that there appear to be in expertise in the civil service — because the Northern Ireland civil service be not integrate into the UK civil service — can be fill ? I have meet many civil servant who be do a very good job and be very committed to their work , but the Northern Ireland civil service be the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Executive and the Ministers in the Departments — it be not my responsibility to deal with . many project that be design to improve public service be be hold up in the court in Northern Ireland because of procurement , planning and the decision process . the late ruse be use to hold up project be the claim that they do not comply with the Government ' s net zero policy and will lead to an increase in carbon dioxide emission . one of the project that be be hold up be the important A5 road in the west of Northern Ireland . do the Secretary of State agree that while we have statutory limit on co2 emission , we will always be vulnerable to major infrastructure project be hold up in the court ? I do not accept that , because get to a net zero world be really important for the future of humankind , and the Government have commitment that it be very important to fulfil . as for delay in the planning system and the way in which the court operate in Northern Ireland , once again , those be matter for the Executive . Independent Reporting Commission : Seventh Annual Report what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the recommendation in the Independent Reporting Commission ' s seventh annual report . the IRC ' s report highlight progress , but remind we that there be still much to do to tackle paramilitarism and the harm it cause . follow discussion with the Irish Government , it have be agree to support a short , independent scope exercise to assess whether there be merit in a formal process to bring about paramilitary group disbandment , as the IRC have suggest , and whether there would be public support for such a process . have spend lot of time with family in Northern Ireland since I be a small child , I have see the progress make over the year and know what a difference it have make on the ground . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to help secure that progress and tackle the scourge of paramilitarism . do the Secretary of State share my view that make further progress will require a range of measure , and that the Executive ' s programme on paramilitarism , criminality and organised crime be a crucial part of that ? I do indeed agree with my hon . friend . that programme be do very good work , and of course the UK Government be fund it together with the Executive . I also agree that a wide range of approach need to be take , include continue to use the full force of the law to deal with paramilitary criminality . after decade of illegal paramilitary organisation take successive government for a ride over transition and pocket million of pound along the way , the Secretary of State now want to appoint a special envoy — a nursemaid to paramilitary . when will this pander come to an end , and be the Secretary of State go to accept the IRC ' s grotesque proposal of move to de - proscription , under which organisation that murder thousand of people would ultimately be make legal ? can he at least rule that out ? on a happy note , will the Secretary of State join I in welcome today ' s announcement by the Irish Football Association and the Galgorm resort that there will be a new training facility par excellence for Northern Ireland football team ? I be very happy to join in what appear to be the general consensus of welcome for the IFA ' s announcement , a proposal that I discuss when I meet the ifa during my time as shadow Secretary of State . on the substantive issue that the hon . and learn Gentleman have raise , the fact be that 26 year later , people say that the paramilitary organisation should have leave the stage . they be still here , despite the progress that have be make , and be still cause harm to community . the IRC ' s proposal — which I recognise be not support by everybody — be to inquire whether there be some paramilitary organisation that do actually want to leave the stage , and whether there be merit in have a process that ensure that . however , what I announce yesterday be not a process ; it be a scope study to find out whether it be worth have one or not , which I think be the right thing to do . after all these year , people be bewildered that we be still talk about transition paramilitary group , which have continue to recruit , to grip and to poison community and current - day politic in Northern Ireland . will the Minister commit to ensure that we learn from all the thing that have not go right , and all the previous attempt at transition ? will he commit to ensure that there be no payday for former paramilitary , that we take a serious criminal justice approach , and that there be precondition on such thing as emblem and financial asset ? do he agree that that make it even more important that we get the infrastructure right on the legacy of the trouble , and move towards get back on track as a serious rule - of - law society ? for the avoidance of doubt , there be no question of pay anybody any money to disband . there be no question of do that at all . as I indicate a moment ago , for all the effort that have be make — there be much to learn from what have work — the fact remain , as the Independent Reporting Commission report make clear , that many community in Northern Ireland continue to suffer real harm because of paramilitary activity . what be the proof that those who say they be prepared to disband be do so ? the proof will be : do they end recruitment , paramilitary - style assault , intimidation , child criminal and sexual exploitation and violence against woman and girl ? that be what people be experience today in Northern Ireland . I want all paramilitary off our street for good , and I also want to see justice do for their victim . that be why I can not quite understand why the Dublin Government be close their eye to the 2021 Horner judgment , which recommend inquiry in the United Kingdom and in the Republic of Ireland . the family hearing in Omagh have bring the horror of that day to a new generation . will the Secretary of State use his influence to call on Dublin to give the Omagh family the public inquiry they deserve and want so , so much ? I recognise , not least because of the commemorative hearing that have be take place in the inquiry , that all the pain , suffering , horror and tragedy of that day have be bring to life again for the family who live with that every single day of the week . I welcome the fact that the Irish Government be commit to co - operate with the Omagh inquiry . I look forward to the signing of the memorandum of understanding . it be for the Irish Government to decide what inquiry they wish to establish in relation to event in the Republic . Movement of Horticultural Goods whether he have have recent discussion with horticultural supplier in Great Britain on the supply of good to consumer in Northern Ireland . the Secretary of State have meet supplier , and my official meet regularly with horticultural industry representative . the next meeting of the horticultural working group be in two day ' time , and the Government be commit to address the outstanding issue on horticultural product to ensure that these can move safely within the UK . the situation remain difficult . in fact , the Horticultural Trades Association say that it remain " impossible " for some retailer who be try to order product from GB - base company for consumer in Northern Ireland . everyone can complain about that , but some of we be try to do something about it . the Government be the people who can bring pressure to bear to resolve this problem for consumer in Northern Ireland , so what action be be take to try to resolve it ? official from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be follow up specifically with the company that be most affected , such as seed shipping company . shipping seed be allow , use phytosanitary certificate , but business - to - business posting be currently smooth than business - to - consumer posting . solution to this issue be be work out within the requirement of the Windsor framework , and guidance should be update shortly . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the Minister for her answer , but we want to know more detail of the progress that the horticultural work group be make on resolve the issue to do with the movement of plant and cut flower from GB to NI under the Windsor framework . can she please update we on that as a matter of urgency ? I can provide more update . the ban plant be be work through species - by - specie . there be 11 in 2023 and 10 in 2024 , and we be work through each one of those . the working group be take each of those on a case - by - case basis and work through each issue as it arise . give that the grace period will run out within the next year , what be the plan to ensure that Northern Ireland do not run out of veterinary medicine ? we be work to narrow the range of product that involve a problem , but we be work in respect of each of they as well . the matter be be give consideration in the knowledge that , as the hon . Member have point out , the deadline be approach . the Windsor framework be a distinct improvement on the old Northern Ireland protocol , but do the Minister agree that if we be to ensure the smooth possible movement of agrifood product across the Irish sea , it be vital that we secure a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement with the European Union ? I agree that the Windsor framework be a big improvement on the protocol . we be committed to implement it at the same time as seek to negotiate an SPS agreement that would provide further improvement in the movement of agrifood product , and we must pave the way to that by reset our relationship with the EU and implement the Windsor framework in good faith . Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 what step he plan to take to replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . what step he plan to take to replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . the approach to legacy take by the last Government be wrong . it cause immense pain to victim and survivor , and in many respect have be find to be unlawful . in December I lay a proposal for a draft remedial order to address the human right deficiency in the Act that have be identify by the court , and when parliamentary time allow , I will introduce primary legislation to reinstate legacy inquest halt by the Act and to reform and strengthen the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery . why do the Secretary of State abandon the appeal in Dillon and Ors ? because section 46 and 47 of the Act be find to be unlawful , and , as the right hon . Gentleman will be aware , the case that give rise to the attempt to deal with the problem through those section that have now be find to be unlawful arise from a Supreme Court judgment in 2020 . for two and a bit year , the last Government be unable to find a solution . notwithstanding the Secretary of State ' s response , may I ask why this Labour Government be continue to undermine the tough action take by the Conservative Government on individual who have act against our democracy and society , such as Gerry Adams , by consider repeal the Act , give Adams and other the possibility of a six - figure payout ? as I say during the last Northern Ireland question , no one want to see that happen . we be currently work to find a lawful way of deal with the problem that be create by the way in which the original interim custody order be sign in 1972 and , I think , 1973 . in 2020 , the Supreme Court find that order that have not be sign and consider by the then Secretary of State be not lawful . in 2019 , Boris Johnson commission the Shawcross report on libyan - sponsor IRA terrorism . United States citizen have receive compensation from the libyan government for attack on british soil , but UK citizen never have . will the Secretary of State work with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to ensure that the report be publish ? the whole House will have profound sympathy for all the victim of Gaddafi - sponsor IRA terrorism , and all the victim of the trouble . the Shawcross report be commission by the last government as an internal report , and decision on the report and its future be currently under review by the fcdo . I call the shadow Minister . People throughout the United Kingdom will be disgusted if former terrorist such as Gerry Adams receive compensation from the taxpayer because of labour ' s decision to repeal the legacy Act without put something in its place . will the Secretary of State finally commit himself to legislate immediately to prevent that from happen ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the answer that I give a moment ago . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 26 February . this week mark three year since Putin ' s barbaric invasion of Ukraine . the courage of the Ukrainians be inspire , and across this House we stand with they for as long as it take . that be why we be increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by April 2027 , with an ambition to reach 3 % in the next Parliament , as economic and fiscal condition allow . this afternoon , of course , I will travel to the US to have discussion with President Trump about the endure security partnership between our two country . I be also delighted that we have announce the first 750 school to start offer free breakfast club . this be our plan for change in action , ensure every child have the chance to thrive . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in thank Amanda Pritchard for her service as chief executive of NHS England , and I wish she well for the future . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . could the Prime Minister tell this House whether the outcome of his Budget be by design or by mistake ? do he mean to push 100 , 000 pensioner into poverty with his own analysis when he remove the winter fuel allowance , or be that a mistake ? do he mean to decimate family farming when he change inheritance tax , or be that a mistake ? do he mean to tax GPs , care home and hospice when he raise national insurance contribution , or be that a mistake ? can the Prime Minister tell the House whether they be acceptable collateral damage in his path for change , or simply mistake that need rectify ? I will tell the hon . member what be a mistake : leave a £ 22 billion black hole that we have to sort out . we take the difficult decision , invest in our NHS , and I would have think he would have welcome the 2 million extra appointment that we have achieve in the first seven month of a Labour Government . that be the difference our Budget be make to people . I be delighted that Calton and Grange primary school in my city of Gloucester will be among the first 750 school to get free breakfast club , and I be pleased that this Government be already deliver on their manifesto promise in less than a year . so will the Prime Minister agree with I that , by help work parent with childcare and deliver the good start to the day for every single child , we be deliver opportunity for the next generation ? I agree with my hon . friend . we be pleased that two of the early adopter school will be in his constituency . we be ensure that all child of primary school age can get access to free breakfast and at least 30 minute of free childcare . that mean every child ready to learn , and parent of course support with up to £ 450 a year back in their pocket . that be the change a Labour Government make . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I wish the Prime Minister every success on his trip to Washington . the visit to see President Trump must serve our national interest . the Prime Minister and I be completely united in our support for Ukraine as a proud and sovereign nation . what specific step will he take to ensure Ukraine be at the negotiating table for any peace settlement ? I thank the Leader of the Opposition for her word about the forthcoming trip . it be right , and I think the whole House will think it be right , that Ukraine must be at the table at negotiation . there can be no negotiation about Ukraine without Ukraine . that have be my consistent position in all of the discussion that I have have . that will continue to be my position , because this be about the sovereignty of Ukraine and the Ukrainians ' ability to decide for themselves the future of their country , so they must be at the table . I thank the Prime Minister for that answer , and as I say , I wish he every success . we want to support he on this issue . turn to the detail of the plan the Prime Minister set out yesterday , over the weekend I suggest to he that he cut the aid budget , and I be pleased that he accept my advice — [ Laughter . ] it be the fast response I have ever have from the Prime Minister . however , he announce £ 13 . 4 billion in additional defence spending yesterday . this morning , his Defence Secretary say the uplift be only £ 6 billion . which be the correct figure ? I be go to have to let the Leader of the Opposition down gently : she do not feature in my thinking at all . I be so busy over the weekend that I do not even see her proposal . she have appoint herself the saviour of western civilisation ; it be a desperate search for relevance . if you take the number for this financial year and the number for the ' 27 - 28 financial year , there be a £ 13 . 4 billion increase . that be the large sustained increase in defence spending since the cold war , and will put we in a position to ensure the security and defence of our country and of Europe . that be not very clear . how be it that the Defence Secretary say £ 6 billion , but the Prime Minister say £ 13 . 4 billion ? the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say the Government be play " silly game with number " . how have he find this difference in number ? we go through this two week ago , go over the same question again and again . let I say it again : if you take the financial year this year , and then you take the financial year for ' 27 - 28 , the difference between the two be £ 13 . 4 billion . that be the same answer . if she ask again , I will give the same answer again . More ! I will decide when there be more . someone need to tell the Prime Minister that be patronising be not a substitute for answer question . he have not answer the question . what he have say be different from what he say yesterday . we be still not clear where the money be come from . we want to support he . he have also say that we should put british troop on the ground in Ukraine , but we have not see the detail of any proposal . would his new spending plan allow he to fund that commitment effectively ? I think it be the same question again . it be £ 13 . 4 billion — that be the difference between this year and ' 27 - 28 . the Leader of the Opposition ask a serious question about the security guarantee in Ukraine . that be extremely important , because the bad of all outcome , if there be to be a cessation of hostility , would be for it to be a short break , rather than a sustained and last peace . that mean there have to be security guarantee , and I have indicate that we will play our full part . there have to be US backing ; otherwise , I do not think it will deter Putin . we be work on that . I be have extensive discussion on it . I be not in a position to put detail before the House today , as she well know , but I will continue down that route . I want a last peace in Ukraine and Europe for the safety and security of Ukrainians , Europeans and , of course , everybody in this country . this be an endeavour that we want to support the Prime Minister in , but we need to know exactly what we be support . we need clarity and transparency over the money , and we also need to know where the money be go . this morning , the Defence Secretary could not say whether the Chagos deal would come out of the defence budget . can the Prime Minister confirm to the House that none of the defence uplift include payment for his Chagos deal ? the additional spend I announce yesterday be for our capability on defence and security in Europe , as I make absolutely clear yesterday . the Chagos deal be extremely important for our security and for US security , and the US be rightly look at it . when the deal be finalise , I will put it before the House with the costing . the figure be bandy around be absolutely wide of the mark . the deal be for well over a century . the funding I announce yesterday be for our capability , and will put we in a position to rise to a generational challenge . that be what that money be all about ; I think the right hon . Lady support it . we need to make sure we be support a plan that be clear and transparent . yesterday , the Prime Minister set an ambition for defence spending to reach 3 % in the next Parliament , and we agree with he on that . however , that could be 2034 — almost a decade away . that be too slow . we do not know how he will pay for it . we can not raise taxis far , and we already pay more on debt interest than defence . everyone in this House will have hear the Prime Minister not answer the previous question , so I will ask again : be he pay for the Chagos deal with this defence uplift or not ? I have just deal with that question , Mr Speaker . the money announce yesterday be go to our capability in order to put ourselves in a position to defend the security of both our country and Europe . the Leader of the opposition ask about defence spending . she give what people have describe as a ramble speech yesterday , where she could not say what defence spending should be . we have be absolutely clear . we have set out a full , credible , costed plan , and I think she support it . the Prime Minister will be aware that in coastal community such as mine in East Thanet , people develop cancer early , get treat and diagnose later and die young . can he give the House an update on the Government ' s plan to implement the recommendation by the chief medical officer , Chris Witty , for tackle poor health in our seaside town ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . she be right that cancer patient be wait too long for diagnosis and treatment . address healthcare inequity be part of our 10 - year health plan , which aim to halve the gap in healthy life expectancy between the rich and the poor region , and we be already make progress on that . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . may I start by wish the Prime Minister well on his trip to the White House ? it will not be an easy meeting , but we be all behind he for the sake of our national interest . it be already clear that , sadly , under President Trump , we will not be able to rely on the United States to help ensure our security against russian aggression , which be why we strongly welcome the Prime Minister ' s decision to increase Britain ' s defence spending . but Europe must do far more to rearm in the face of Putin ' s threat and the UK must lead on that . that be why we back the idea of a new european rearmament bank , so that we can finance a big increase in manufacturing capacity without the need to cut Britain ' s vital soft power . will the Prime Minister look at this idea , work across this House and across Europe , so that we can make a european rearmament bank happen ? I shall resist the right hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion that we somehow have to choose between the US and our european partner . I do not believe that to be the case . I want to strengthen our already strong relationship with the US , because it be vital that we do so . I of course want to work with our european ally on defence capability and on what more we need to do in relation to capability , co - ordination and funding . in the long term , there be an ongoing discussion among ally as to future funding , and I be happy to share that with the House as it evolve . I hope the Prime Minister be successful in keep the US on board with our european ally . I be glad that he be talk about finance and defence . if he be to push this european rearmament bank at the summit of european leader on Sunday , I think that he would be push at an open door . certainly , Prime Minister Tusk be support the idea from the polish point of view . let I turn now to domestic matter , with the cost of living crisis hit so many of our constituent . family in my constituency be really angry that Thames Water be send they bill this April that will cost they £ 150 a year more . Thames Water have already let down so many people , whether it be through leak pipe or pump its filthy sewage into our river . a third of customer ’ bill be already use just to pay the interest on Thames Water ' s debt , and now the company will borrow £ 3 billion more . be it not time to stop make people pay for bail out the vulture fund that be drown Thames Water in debt ? will his Government just put this firm out of its misery and put it into special administration , so that we can sort out that mess and the mess leave by that lot on the conservative Benches ? the right hon . Gentleman be certainly right about the mess make by that lot . we obviously have our water Bill , which contain very strong measure , and I think that he support they . we have hear extraordinary rhetoric come out of Washington in recent day and we have see fascist salute on our screen . we have witness wild statement about Palestinians be expel from Gaza , and we have see our ally label " dictator " . Britain ' s interest be well serve by stand with Ukraine , work closely with our european ally , uphold international law and remain a strong part of NATO . will the Prime Minister assure we that this will form a central part of his message when he meet world leader this week ? we certainly stand with Ukraine — I think I speak for the whole House when I say that . as I set out yesterday , NATO be the bedrock of our security . it have be our most important alliance for many , many year , and it be as important today as it have ever be . we build that alliance by work with the US . we have a special and deep relationship with the US — that be not just word , but to do with security , defence , and intelligence capability , which be vitally important for both side — but we also work with our european ally . it be that ability to work with the US and our european partner that have hold the peace for so many year , and need to hold the peace for many year to come . I call the Leader of the SNP . prior to the election , the Labour party promise to reduce energy bill by £ 300 , yet on its watch , energy bill be about to increase by almost £ 300 . be the failure to keep that promise a consequence of Government incompetence , or have the Labour party be catch lie to the public ? we be very proud of the fact that we be push forward for energy independence , which will keep our bill low . the right hon . Gentleman know very well what my position be ; however , I note again that he be very quiet on the SNP record , and I will tell hon . member why . just this week , we have see the attainment gap widen in Scotland . number of pupil leave school with no qualification rise ; those from deprived area go to work fall . instead of play the politic of grievance , SNP Members need to take responsibility for their own record . my constituent Mike Addison be one of a kind . a physical disability rugby league world champion with England and Warrington Wolves and an avid volunteer for the club and foundation , he be a friend to everyone who know he . tragically , he die at age 45 , have take his own life . one death by suicide be too many , and every suicide be preventable . however , Office for National Statistics datum put the rate in the north - west at more than double the rate in London , with a 17 % increase last year . will the Prime Minister outline what more can be do , work across Government , to help Warrington meet our target of eliminate suicide ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that tragic case . my thought , and I be sure those of the House , be with the family , friend and teammate of Mike at Warrington Wolves . she be right that one death by suicide be one too many and reduce the number be a vital part of our health mission . we be recruit an additional 8 , 500 mental health worker who be especially train to support people at risk of suicide . we be committed to take forward the suicide prevention strategy for England and I be sure the whole House support that . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement commit we to increase defence spending and reaffirm the UK ' s support for Ukraine and its democratically elect leader , President Zelensky . he be a wartime leader like Winston Churchill , who also have to delay election because his country face an existential threat . as the Prime Minister travel to Washington , with this House and the country will he to succeed , will he invoke the legacy of Churchill in make the case for the UK to be the key in bridge transatlantic relation , to bring we all together for the sake of freedom and democracy across the world ? I thank the hon . member for his question , and may I pick up on both element ? first , President Zelensky be a democratically elect leader and suspend election be precisely what we do in this country when we be fight in the second world war . secondly , yes , the UK have successfully be a bridge between the US and Europe for many year . it be vital that we continue in that role . that be why my message to President Trump be that the relationship between our two country need to go from strength to strength — it be already strong — while we work at the same time with our european ally . on Monday night , there be a brutal double stabbing in my constituency , which add to a long line of horrific knife attack that have include three fatality over the past two year . I know that the Prime Minister be aware of the particular challenge we face in Bournemouth . although crime have be go down , I know there be much more that he will want to do . will he join I in praise the crucial work do by organisation such as Changes be make , which provide positive activity such as box to young people , and will he share what more the Government can do to tackle knife crime in community such as mine ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that really important issue . yesterday , we introduce our Crime and Policing Bill , which be central to our plan for change and to halve knife crime . it involve new power to seize and destroy knife find on private property and a new criminal offence of possess a bladed article with the intent to cause harm , plus tough penalty for sell dangerous weapon to under - 18 and strict rule for online sale under Ronan ' s law . we will continue that work . the flood of 2013 - 14 devastate Datchet , Horton and Wraysbury , and the flooding last January be not much well . but shockingly , the River Thames scheme as currently propose continue to leave my constituent at risk . the council be ask to cough up ten of million but , like many , it be cash - strapped . do the Prime Minister agree that the only option to protect my constituent be to fund channel 1 of the River Thames scheme as national strategic infrastructure , which really it be ? the hon . Member have raise this issue before , which obviously be important for his constituent . we inherit flood defence in their bad state on record , which be why we be invest £ 2 . 6 billion to protect over 50 , 000 property . I understand that the option to reduce flood risk to these community be be consider as part of the Datchet and Hythe end flood alleviation scheme . I will ensure that he have a meeting with the relevant Minister to take forward the work . in order for the Government ' s growth agenda to be a success , it must be feel in all area of the country , include Doncaster and South Yorkshire , where we have green growth transport company such as Hybrid Air Vehicles and Clean Power Hydrogen , alongside the reopening of Doncaster Sheffield Airport . will the Prime Minister put on record his support for Mayor Ros Jones , who have lead on the airport reopen ? will he set out how the growth agenda will override traditional investment pattern mainly in the south of England and bring prosperity to South Yorkshire and the north as a whole ? yes , I will . Doncaster have a proud industrial heritage of rail , steel and coal , and extraordinary potential for industry of the future , from hydrogen to artificial intelligence . we be focus on devolve more power and funding to metro Mayors to support regional industry . we will work with the Mayors of Doncaster and South Yorkshire to support effort to reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport . I have the privilege to represent the home of Speyside malt , one the fine Scotch whisky . last week , the UK Government unveil damaging plan to grant a different definition of single malt to english producer from that of scottish single malt . that be entirely inconsistent with the global reputation of the quality of single malt , and seek to tear up the well - establish definition of a single malt , pull the rug yet far from under the scottish whisky industry . give the backlash from the industry and the damage that it could cause to Scotch whisky export and job , will the Prime Minister ' s word on whisky be his whisky bond ? will he back the industry to the hilt and scrap these plan ? we do support Scotch whisky . it be a really important part of our economy , and that be why we allocate £ 5 million in the Budget to it and why we be work with Brazil , which be worth £ 25 million for Scotch whisky . that be what we be do to support that sector in Scotland . in another sector , at the weekend I be very pleased to announce the £ 200 million investment in Grangemouth and in future generation there . yesterday I return from Ukraine , have spend four day with a cross - party delegation of parliamentarian . the Ukrainians we meet from across society have one simple message : they be deeply thankful for our partnership , and they want we to know that they can overcome the russian invasion because they must . do the Prime Minister agree that alongside our welcome 100 - year partnership , now be the time for the UK to redouble our effort alongside our european partner to help secure Ukraine ' s future as a free , democratic and sovereign european nation ? yes , I do . I be proud of the way that the United Kingdom have rise to the challenge of the past three year in a united way , through the capability and funding that we have provide to Ukraine and also by throw open home here to those flee . I be privileged to welcome some of the family to Downing Street on Monday . it be a human reminder of the impact on they , their child and their family . the whole House want the Prime Minister ' s meeting with President Trump to be a success , which require credibility on our defence spending commitment . the Leader of the Opposition give the Prime Minister the opportunity to rule out unambiguously fund any Chagos deal from the defence budget , but I be not clear that he do that . I want he to be take seriously in Washington , so I will make it really easy for he : will he rule out fund any Chagos deal from the defence budget — yes or no ? as I have say , when the deal be complete , I will put it before the House with the costing . the money yesterday be allocate to aid our capability and be the single big sustained increase in defence spending since the cold war . the whole country stand behind the people of Ukraine , but there be a view that take money from aid and development to spend on armament and tank make people less safe , not more safe , because the desperation and poverty that so often lead to warfare be what aid and development money be suppose to counter . as I say yesterday , overseas development be important , and I be proud of what we have do . it be not a decision that I take lightly or want to take , but it be important at this moment that we put defence spending and the defence and security of our country and Europe uppermost . we will , of course , make sure that we be able to fulfil our humanitarian obligation in relation to Gaza , Ukraine and Sudan and other vital work . I want to be clear : we do of course want to go back and increase that funding as soon as we be able to do so . I hope the Prime Minister know that when he travel to Washington to meet the former leader of the free world , he do so with the hope and prayer of this House and the country ; probably no more serious a meeting could be take place . while the subject of Ukraine will clearly dominate , will he undertake to raise with President Trump the fact that Canada be a value , respected and much - love member of both NATO and our Commonwealth ? this childish nonsense of a 51st state should be call out by the Prime Minister for what it be . I thank the hon . member for raise this issue . the UK and Canada be close ally and have be for a long time , with a partnership base on a share history and a share set of value and a determination to be an active force for good in the world . we work closely with Canada on issue of the Commonwealth , on NATO and , of course , five Eyes intelligence sharing . we will work to strengthen that relationship . Barrow and Furness have always be ahead of the time in high - skilled engineering . in the light of the Prime Minister ' s historic commitment to raise defence spending — the big increase since the end of the cold war — I invite he to visit and see the many small and medium - sized enterprise who can support this vital supply chain . do the Prime Minister agree that invest in those business will not only deliver our nuclear deterrent but improve security and the economy for we all ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that , and we will obviously consider her invitation . defence spending already support more than 430 , 000 job across the United Kingdom and I recognise the contribution make by the worker in Barrow and Furness . in my constituency , the planning inspector choose to use the term grey belt to pass a battery energy storage system application before the order be lay in the House to change the national planning policy framework and without recognise the moratorium for local authority to manage their local plan . the decision fail to recognise the green belt that protect we against urban sprawl , and it fail to recognise the proximity to a school , a church and a graveyard . can the Prime Minister define what grey belt actually be , or be it simply a grey area to allow for inappropriate development ? I be not across the detail of the right hon . member ' s case , as she will understand , but I be in favour of make sure that we can have the infrastructure and the house we need to grow our economy . one of the problem we have over the past 14 year be an assertion or rhetoric that we want home and infrastructure , but when the decision for all that come up , the answer be always no . the answer can not always be no . I thank the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary for their effort to secure the release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah , the british human right campaigner who have be imprison in Egypt for over 10 year . the Prime Minister will know — he have meet the family — that his mother be on the 150th day of her hunger strike and her health be fail rapidly . may I ask the Prime Minister to pick up the phone to President Sisi and seek the release of Alaa to save his life and that of his mother ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this really important case . as he say , I meet the mother and the family just a few day ago . it be an incredibly difficult situation for they . I can assure he that I will do everything I can to ensure the release in this case . that include phone call as necessary . I have raise it before and I will raise it again . we raise it and will continue to do so . I give my word to the family that that be what I will do , and I will . People in Northern Ireland be sick to the tooth of paramilitary , the menace of sectarianism and keep people stick in the past . in the light of the announcement yesterday on transition , do the Prime Minister recognise that people will be highly sceptical of the process ? there must be real learning from the fail transition of the past . there can be no reward for paramilitary for hang on , but there must be robust criminal justice , flag off lamppost and streetcorner , and community - fund policing to allow community that have be brutalise by paramilitary to finally look forward to a confident and share future . I thank my hon . friend for raise this important and obviously sensitive issue . we be committed to make progress towards end paramilitarism once and for all in Northern Ireland . that be why we have agree to support a short independent exercise to look at a formal process . I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland keep she update . prostate cancer be now our country ' s most common cancer , yet there be no national screening programme . we make progress towards that in government , but there be more to do , which be why I be delighted to have join the charity Prostate Cancer Research as an ambassador . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care for his engagement thus far . will the Prime Minister ensure that we have a target national screening programme for the group most at risk of prostate cancer , so we can not only save the NHS money and make progress towards the Government ' s early diagnosis target , but , most crucially , save thousand of life ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this issue , and I thank he for use his authority and reputation to support this vital cause , which will make a material difference . I look forward to work with he on it . we share a commitment to detect prostate cancer early and treat it fast . we must do that . our national cancer plan will improve the way we treat cancer right across the country . I will make sure he be fully informed of the step we be take and will work with he . will the Prime Minister join I in wish all Welsh citizen everywhere a very happy St David ' s day on Saturday ? will he also join I in welcome the late news of the £ 600 million investment by Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners to ensure that Bute Energy and Green GEN Cymru can take forward the bold ambition to achieve 100 % green electricity production by 2035 in Wales , thus provide much - need sustainable green job for the people of Wales ? I wish my hon . friend and her constituent a very happy St David ' s day , and join she in welcome the significant new investment in her constituency that will ensure good , well - pay skilled job and the transition to energy security and low bill . I know her constituency will play a vital role in that . do the Prime Minister agree that our big single foreign policy priority be the preservation of NATO with America at its heart ? if so , follow his welcome announcement yesterday , be the next step to talk to our european ally and for all of we to agree to spend 3 % of gdp on defence within a specify timescale , so we can look the President in the eye and say that Europe be finally pull its weight on defence ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman entirely on the priority in term of NATO . Putin think he could weaken NATO . he have only make it strong and large . NATO ' s strength come from the US , european partner and other work together , and that be absolutely the focus of my work at the moment . it be right , as he say , that european country , include the United Kingdom , need to do more on capability , co - ordination and defence spend . that must be see not as a project separate to NATO , but as part of an essential project that ensure NATO be there for decade and decade to come preserve the peace , just as it have be for 75 year . the Grangemouth refinery closure have loom over central Scotland since petroineo ' s announcement in November 2023 . two week ago , Scottish Labour colleague and I meet the National Wealth Fund to make the case for investment in Grangemouth . I strongly welcome the exceptional commitment that this Labour Government have show to Grangemouth by commit £ 200 million from the National Wealth Fund . can I ask the Prime Minister what step the Government will be take to secure permanent good job at Grangemouth ? I thank my hon . friend for be such a great champion for Scotland and his constituency . Grangemouth be really important to community in Scotland and to the economy in Scotland . it be not a charity case ; it have incredible potential and huge opportunity . that be why , at the weekend , I be pleased to announce £ 200 million from the National Wealth Fund to incentivise private investment . that follow the £ 100 million in the growth deal that we announce early . this be about secure job for decade to come in Grangemouth . it be a really exciting opportunity and we intend to seize it . I hope that his Excellency Mr Afrim Gashi , the Speaker of the Assembly of North Macedonia , enjoy question . Grenfell Tower Inquiry : phase 2 report this government accept that the final report of the Grenfell Tower inquiry must be the catalyst for long - last systemic change . all member of the House , past and present , will have share my anger over its shocking finding . the inquiry chair , Sir Martin Moore - Bick , and his dedicated team uncover damn evidence of political , corporate and individual failing go back decade . these lead to the loss of 72 innocent life , 18 of they child , on that terrible night in June 2017 . it be a deadly betrayal and a national tragedy that must never happen again . I repeat today what the Prime Minister say in September to the bereaved family , the survivor and those in the immediate Grenfell community , some of whom be with we today in the Gallery : on behalf of the Government , the british state and those responsible , I be very sorry . the inquiry report make 58 recommendation , of which 37 be direct at the Government . the Government accept the finding of the report and will take forward all the recommendation . our response publish today address each in turn and go far , to set out our wide reform of social housing and the construction sector . as we make these vital change , we will publish quarterly report on progress and update Parliament annually . the Government be open to scrutiny and will remain accountable for their action . we will prioritise resident and protect their interest , make sure that industry build safe home , and provide clear accountability and enforcement . to have anyone anywhere live in an unsafe home be one person too many . that will be our guide principle , and it must be that of anyone who want to build or care for our home . that will be an important part of the legacy of Grenfell . for nearly eight year , despite their pain , the bereaved , survivor and member of the community have campaign with determination , not want anyone to suffer as they have . it be fair to say that the building system we have today be not the same as the one that be justly criticise in the report — the one we have lead up to the tragic event of 2017 . but it be also clear that there be still much more to do , so I can announce that we will create a single construction regulator and a chief construction adviser . we will set out our detailed plan later this year . I be accept the recommendation to professionalise fire engineer and assessor , to licence principal contractor and to review the role of building control . where standard be clear and industry have clarity and certainty on how individual and firm must behave , it encourage investor confidence . this will improve the safety of resident , and support the construction industry and our mission to deliver economic growth . we have pledge to build 1 . 5 million home over the Parliament to tackle our country ' s acute housing crisis , as part of our plan for change to improve the life of people across the country . it be vital that these future home , as well as exist home , be safe and of high quality , and I welcome how some part of the industry have step up to lead the necessary change in culture and approach . but lest we forget , Sir Martin find that just about every institution and organisation charge with keep the tower safe and protect those who call it home fail . his most devastating conclusion be that every single death be avoidable . the inquiry uncover serial incompetence and negligence , complacency and inaction , and blatant dishonesty and greed . the organisation that fail include the Government and regulator ; the Department I now lead , which fail to act on know risk and ignore , delay or disregarded matter affect the safety of life ; and the manufacture company , include Arconic , Kingspan and Celotex , whose product be use to refurbish the tower . the report find that they act with systemic dishonesty as they mis - sell and market they . their disgraceful mercenary behaviour put profit before people and exploit the regulatory regime to evade accountability , with fatal consequence . to my disgust and their shame , some have show little remorse and have refuse even to help fix the building safety crisis that they do so much to create . company must be hold to account for their role in Grenfell . the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office be announce today that she will use new power under the Procurement Act 2023 to investigate Arconic , Kingspan , Saint - Gobain as the owner of Celotex at the time and other organisation . I expect swift , decisive action and will ensure that progress be report . but we must do more to make sure that the right rule be in place . to this day , critical gap persist in how construction product be regulate . only with rigorous reform will we transform the culture that allow the tragedy to happen . to achieve that , we be also publish today a construction product reform Green Paper . it will help we to cut out the rot in the sector and allow competence to take root . safety will come first and a culture of responsibility will prevail . we will celebrate those who lead the way , and those who fall short will suffer the consequence . in the future , rogue company will be hold to account . our Green Paper set out our idea for prison time for executive who break the rule and unlimited fine where safety be put at risk . we will do whatever it take . across the sector , there be appetite for change . that change be overdue , and we will lead it . I pay tribute to the endure resilience and resolve of the bereaved family , the survivor and the member of the immediate community . their campaigning have see new legislation pass , which member of this Government support , that have make our public realm more secure . everyone be safe thank to the Building Safety Act 2022 , which set new standard for the construction of residential building in England . the Act introduce the Building Safety Regulator and provision for high - risk building . all people live in flat now know that the entrance door , external wall and structure of their home be in scope of fire risk assessment thank to the Fire Safety Act 2021 . there be new duty for owner and manager of building and block of flat . the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Act 2023 ensure that landlord be hold to account . I have challenge the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea to demonstrate how it have change by become an exemplar landlord and local authority . I will be keep a close eye on its progress , and we will listen to its tenant to assess whether it have succeed . we be push ahead with the remediation acceleration plan to fix all building around the country that still have dangerous cladding , and where building owner fall short , we will act . we be introduce regulation to improve the fire safety and evacuation of disabled and vulnerable resident in high - rise and high - risk residential building . as of 1 April , ministerial responsibility for fire function will move from the Home Office to my Department , in line with the inquiry ' s recommendation that we bring responsibility for fire safety into a single Department . People and their safety be front and centre of our inquiry response , but there remain a stark and terrible reality : the bereaved , the survivor and member of the Grenfell community be still wait for the justice they need and deserve . justice must be do . the ongoing Metropolitan police investigation be among the big it have ever undertake , and the Met have the Government ' s full support . in September , the Prime Minister rightly say that this tragedy pose question about what social justice mean in Britain today , and whether the voice of working - class people , those with disability and those of colour be ignore and dismiss . I be here to say that we will not be that country . we will be a country where decent housing , security , safety and peace of mind be share by all and be not just the privilege of a few . the lesson of the inquiry should not have take a tragedy to unearth . we will honour the memory of those who lose their life by bring about meaningful change in their name — change that will make life well for everyone . we be under no illusion about the scale of the task at hand . the responsibility to deliver last change be the privilege of leadership . that will not be do by Government alone , but we will put our voice and power in the service of the cause that the Grenfell community have continue to fight for nearly eight long year . together we will bring about the transformational change that the people of this country deserve . it be with that admiration for the spirit of the Grenfell community and the determination to honour it that I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for advance sight of her statement and the Government ' s response to the phase 2 report ? I echo the Deputy Prime Minister ' s sentiment , which be share across the House . the tragedy of Grenfell , which claim 72 innocent life — 54 adult and 18 child — will always remain a scar on our national conscience . I thank Sir Martin Moore - Bick and his team for their work . I join the Deputy Prime Minister in offer my deep apology to the bereaved , the survivor and the Grenfell community for the failure that lead to that horrific night in June 2017 — we all remember where we be that night . I also thank they for their constant and constructive campaigning . the inquiry ' s finding — decade of systemic failure , dishonesty and negligence — be a damn indictment of successive government , regulator and industry . the Government ' s response , with its acceptance of all 58 recommendation , be a step forward , and I welcome the commitment to action . the creation of a single construction regulator , the appointment of a chief construction adviser and the consolidation of fire safety function under one Department be long overdue reform . so too be the focus on professionalise fire engineer and reform the construction product sector , which the inquiry expose as riddled with systemic dishonesty from firm such as Arconic , Kingspan and Celotex . the Green Paper on construction product reform be a promising start , but it must deliver real accountability . unlimited fine and prison sentence for rogue executive and , where appropriate , Government official , can not remain mere rhetoric . ambition must be match by urgency and scrutiny . nearly eight year have pass since Grenfell , yet thousand still live in building with unsafe cladding and other fire safety defect . although I welcome the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister have accept the majority of the recommendation , why have she not accept the inquiry ' s recommendation for a single regulator to oversee the testing and certification of construction product , leave that instead with conformity assessment body ? I remind she that the Building Research Establishment , which be itself a conformity assessment body , be strongly criticise for its conflict of interest . the remediation acceleration plan be welcome , but its target of assess all building by July 2025 and complete work by 2027 rely heavily on developer step up voluntarily . what action will the Deputy Prime Minister take if they do not comply ? will she work to deliver solution for non - qualify leaseholder and those at risk as a consequence of other fire safety defect ? this House need concrete assurance that no resident will be leave behind . I question the phase approach to implementation stretch beyond 2028 . justice delay be justice deny . the Grenfell community have wait long enough for change . why must they potentially wait another parliamentary term for full delivery ? what discussion have the Leader of the House have with parliamentary colleague on the establishment of a public inquiry Joint Committee to monitor the implementation of public inquiry recommendation ? what be the timetable for the new publicly available record on all public inquiry recommendation since 2024 ? on social housing , the extension of Awaab ' s law and new standard be positive , but the Government must go far to address the inquiry ' s wide lesson . resident ' voice be ignore . Tenant empowerment must be more than a panel or a campaign ; it need legal tooth to ensure landlord act on concern swiftly . justice demand accountability . the Metropolitan police investigation have our full support , but the pace must quicken . those who profit from cut comer or be criminally negligent must face consequence — not just fine but criminal charge where evidence allow . Grenfell must be a watershed — a legacy of safety , transparency and respect for every resident . I make our clear commitment to work with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Government , on a cross - party basis , to meet that promise . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his comment and the way in which he make they . I hope genuinely that we can work together to continue this piece of work . I recognise in my statement the work of the previous Government , through the Building Safety Act and other measure , and we will continue to work in that vein . I hope that the shadow Secretary of State recognise some of the work that we be already do . we have bring forward a significant amount of legislation on social tenancy , on empower tenant through the Renters ' Rights Bill , on protect leaseholder , and on our remediation acceleration plan . the Government will deliver those legislative change as soon as parliamentary time allow . the legislation commitment be detail in the plan . that include create certainty on building that need remediation and on who be responsible for remediate they ; make obligation for assess and complete regulation remediation clear , with severe consequence for non - compliance ; and give resident great control in situation of acute harm where landlord have neglect their responsibility . the shadow Secretary of State ask about a single construction regulator . we accept that recommendation in principle , but the single regulator will deliver the function recommend by the inquiry , with two exception to avoid conflict of interest : set the rule for construction product and police its own compliance . we will consult on the design of the regulator in the autumn . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . today be yet another long , exhaust day for the love one of the victim of Grenfell , who be still have to fight for justice nearly eight year on . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s response and look forward to the Select Committee ' s scrutiny of the Green Paper and the proposal for the single construction regulator . if we be honest , however , what the Secretary of State have outline will not tackle the root cause of the systematic ignorance of tenant ' concern — that toxic stigma at the heart of our social housing sector . what step be she take to ensure that tenant have a voice in the social housing sector and be show respect when they raise concern for their family ? we must never forget that 41 % of the victim of Grenfell be disabled . that figure underline the collective failure of the system to protect those in need . the Government ' s commitment to residential evacuation plan for disabled people in high - rise building be a welcome step forward , but I would be grateful if the Secretary of State clarify how the Government intend to make residential personal emergency evacuation plan — peep — enforceable if the responsible person fail to identify the vulnerable resident . I be also pleased that funding have be allocate for that in the social sector , but in reality disabled people live in all type of housing . will she commit to ensure that disabled people in the private rent sector have the same access to evacuation plan as those in the social sector ? none of the family present in the Public Gallery should have to be here . the tragedy in 2017 happen in the holy month of Ramadan , and as we approach Ramadan this week — a time that should be dedicate to reflection , healing and togetherness — too many family be still fight for justice . no family member present should have to spend their time demand accountability when they should be focus on recover from their trauma . I pay tribute to they for their tireless effort , and pledge to continue to be a voice for they in their fight for justice without any more delay . I know that my hon . friend , as Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , be commit to the right of social housing tenant . as she outline , the social housing system have not be fit for purpose , and those failing contribute to the Grenfell tragedy . we be drive up standard in social housing through strong regulation and enforcement measure , strengthen tenant ' voice and improve access to redress . those reform will ensure that landlord be hold accountable for the quality of the home and service that they provide . at the heart of the new regulatory regime be the requirement for all landlord to treat tenant with fairness and respect . social landlord be require to understand and provide information and support that recognise the diverse need of their tenant , include those arise from protect characteristic and language barrier . the Government will lay regulation as soon as possible this year on the social housing provider funding make available for residential peep . we will direct the regulator to set standard on the competency and conduct of staff to ensure that tenant be treat with respect . at a national level , we have extend the social housing resident panel to help ensure that tenant ' voice and experience inform policy development . we will keep a new regulatory system under review . we will evaluate its effectiveness by 2028 to ensure that it be deliver the improvement we need . we will set out further measure to strengthen resident ' voice in the long - term housing strategy later this year . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . liberal Democrats stand firmly with the many bereaved family member , as well as the immediate community , friend and neighbour , as they mourn the 72 people , include child , who tragically lose their life in 2017 . any step regard change to the building will be a deeply personal matter for that community , and I know that the Secretary of State will approach any decision about the future of the building with due respect for the local community , survivor and victim . we therefore welcome the Government ' s decision to work with the Grenfell Tower Memorial Commission to design a memorial , and we urge the Government to approach the discussion with respect and sympathy for those who suffer , as I be sure the Secretary of State will do . as we approach eight year since the Grenfell fire , Liberal Democrats be concerned that there be still thousand of people in the UK live in building with dangerous cladding . the Grenfell inquiry provide a detailed look at the fact lead up to the night of 14 June 2017 , include look at the underlying cause of the fire , where mistake be make , the condition of the tower and the response of the public and the emergency service . on the recommendation to the architectural profession , I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — I be a member of the Royal Institute of British Architects . there be lesson to be learn by ever authority in the land . we recognise that the previous Government provide funding to start the process of deal with cladding , which be slowly be allocate , but it be now time to accelerate that vital work to make all building safe . we be concerned that too many developer and building owner be pass the cost of remediation work on to tenant and leaseholder , which put many at serious financial risk . liberal Democrats endorse all 57 recommendation of the Grenfell inquiry phase 2 report by Sir Martin Moore - Bick , include the creation of legally enforceable order to remediate premise so they be safe , on pain of criminal sanction . however , we need to take further step to guard against commercial interest override safety , as they do in both the testing of material and the enforcement of building regulation . we would like to see more do to ensure that commerciality will not , shockingly and disgracefully , override interest of safety ever again . it be time to invest in our housing stock so that the cladding be deal with . it be time for justice for the victim and for all those live in unsafe housing . Lib Dems stand ready to work across party to do achieve that . I thank the hon . member for his commitment and support in take forward the recommendation that come from the inquiry . I thank he for his comment about ensure that we take decision about the future of Grenfell in the most sensitive of way . I absolutely agree with he , and I be committed to take the next step respectfully and carefully with the community . I continue to support the independent Grenfell Tower Memorial Commission as the community choose a design team to work with they on design a memorial . I agree that it be a priority for we to work at pace because the work be urgent . we be work as quickly as we possibly can . some of the inquiry recommendation be wide - reach and some will require further work , include public consultation , before they can be deliver . however , where we can work quickly , such as with the machinery of Government change — move responsibility for fire to my Department — we be committed to do that . I hope the hon . Gentleman hear my word on the acceleration of remediation and our action plan . as I hope be reflect in my response , I agree entirely with his comment about commerciality not take precedent or have any control over safety . safety must come first and this Government be commit to that . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her statement today and the Prime Minister for his statement on 4 September , which make it clear that the lesson from Grenfell be central to this Government ' s mission . today be another painful step towards truth , justice and change for the bereaved family of the 72 people who lose their life at Grenfell , the survivor and the community in my constituency of Kensington and bayswater , many of whom have join we today . I pay tribute again to their strength and resilience . the fight for justice , now nearly eight year long , will continue after today , and every day , until we have criminal prosecution and true accountability for those responsible , include those company reference in the inquiry report . I know the Government have look seriously at the inquiry recommendation , and I welcome the commitment to meaningful change across all of they , but too often recommendation from public inquiry fail to be implement . indeed , if the lesson from previous fire have be learn , include at Lakanal House in 2009 , then life would have be save — this be avoidable . will the Deputy Prime Minister assure I that the Government will consider a strong oversight mechanism to ensure accountability for implement what have be set out today , so that it last beyond any one government and lead to real change ? will she also provide further detail on how she plan to ensure accountability for the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea , give their culpability before , during and after the fire ? the council ' s culture desperately need to change and there need to be an improvement in the quality of service in our community today . I thank and pay tribute to my hon . friend for the way he have constructively challenge and work with we on behalf of his constituent . I know this report have great personal significance for his constituent , and I pay tribute to his dedicated work as an advocate in call for truth , justice and change for the Grenfell community . I agree that robust oversight of the Government ' s implementation of the response be essential for this , and for all public inquiry . the system need to be improve and we be take forward the inquiry ' s recommendation on oversight . we will create a publicly accessible record on gov . uk of recommendation make by public inquiry since 2024 , and we will consider make that a legal requirement as part of a wide review of the inquiry ' s framework . on the Grenfell inquiry recommendation , my Department will publish quarterly progress update on gov . uk until they have all be deliver . we will report annually to Parliament to enable member to scrutinise our progress and hold we to account . on my hon . friend ' s comment about the council , the council fail in some of its most fundamental duty to keep resident safe , to listen to their concern and to respond effectively when disaster strike . the council be right to apologise , but it be clear that more must be do . I have welcome the council ' s commitment to improvement and culture change , and I have set my challenge to the leader of the council to ensure that those improvement be a reality feel by the council ' s resident . I will continue to engage and keep an eye on that progress . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . all our thought be with the victim and their family . I know the Secretary of State will keep we up to date about the permanent memorial . however , the big failure that she have not speak about be the testing regime for the product that be put on Grenfell , and on building up and down the country . firm deliberately cheat the testing regime system , so product be sign off as safe . will she undertake to overhaul safety mechanism and the testing regime for product , so that building , both the one we have already and those build in the future , will be safe for the resident who live in they ? I agree with what the hon . Gentleman say . the Government be commit to a system - wide reform of the construction product regime , ensure that we address the significant gap that the Grenfell inquiry and the independent review of the construction product testing regime have expose . the construction product Green Paper that we have publish today be a significant step forward towards a construction product regime that have public safety at its heart . I hope we can continue to work across Government and across the House to ensure that we have a system that be fit for purpose for the future . will the Secretary of State go a little far than she do in her reply to my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) ? it be good that she will have a publicly accessible record of recommendation . will she commit to what the charity Inquest and many other have ask for , which be a national oversight mechanism — a body that collate , analyse and follow up on the recommendation of inquiry and inquest ? otherwise , there be a real danger that these recommendation and other will gather dust on the shelf . I hear directly from member of the Grenfell community their call for the Government to introduce a national oversight mechanism . we recognise that this go wide than Grenfell and that it be an important issue for other community and family , such as those affect by covid - 19 and the blood scandal . we be consider that in the year ahead as part of measure to strengthen public inquiry , and the Government will listen to the view of the affect family as part of that consideration . the Grenfell fire be an appalling tragedy , but it also throw a blanket of uncertainty over countless resident in many of our constituency who be trap in cladde property . when I hear the Deputy Prime Minister talk about a new regulatory regime and change , I confess I feel very nervous that any change to the regulatory regime will throw further uncertainty over those who be still trap in their home . can she assure the House that any move she make will not create further uncertainty about the standard to which building need to be remediate ? I also highlight the case of my constituent in Harold Wood , who have their building assess by a fire risk assessor who be subsequently strike off . those people , who think they be go to be release from that terrible stasis , be now back to not know where they stand , so will she please look into those concern ? I hope that what we be announce today will bring clarity to the system . one of the thing that come out of the phase 2 report be about the system be disjoint . bring clarity will hopefully ensure that people understand what they be mean to do — what their legal obligation be — and that we expect they to do it ; if they do not do it , there will be serious consequence . I also point to the remediation acceleration plan . I completely understand that many people be still in building that be unsafe , which be unacceptable . that be why this Government be take action . on the Harold Wood case , I be happy for the hon . Lady to meet the Building Safety Minister about that . I thank the Secretary of State for her important statement . the people of Grenfell be treat badly because of who they be , what they look like and how much they earn . we say that 72 people be kill in Grenfell , but the police be hold ashe for which they have no name . nobody should have to go through this ; the family should never have to go through this . this should never happen again . do she agree that , as well as the chief executive officer of the company , all the people in the council who treat the resident badly and do not listen to they , because of what they look like , must be hold accountable ? everybody need to be hold accountable . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . at the heart of the new regulatory regime be the requirement that all landlord treat their tenant with fairness and respect , and take action so that the service they provide have fair and equitable outcome . social landlord be require to understand and provide information and support that recognise the diverse need of their tenant , include those arise from protect characteristic . that have not be so in the past , and , if I be honest , it do not feel like it be the case today when I speak to resident of the community . that be why I have push the council in that particular area and why this government be bring forward legislation that say we respect people . whether they be social tenant or private tenant , they deserve a safe and secure home and to be treat with dignity and respect . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s statement , and the move towards centralised regulation and improve safety generally . do the report not serve as a single act of shame for this country ? as she just say , it reveal that the safety and quality of social housing have be consider to matter less , because the people who live in social housing have be consider to matter less . should that point of view , which have be in place since the decline in building standard in the 1960 , not be a matter of deep national repentance ? as the Deputy Prime Minister seek to tackle that , have she speak to or be she continue to speak to her right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer ? there be a cost to make sure that we build to a high standard , as we do immediately after the war , while also expand the number of social rent home , particularly in part of the country where build cost be more expensive , such as London and the Lake district . I thank the hon . gentleman for the way in which he articulate that point . I be still dismay to this day by archaic attitude towards people in social tenancy . I be a social tenant for a very long time and grow up in a council house . the issue be the way that these people be treat , especially after this report . I ask anyone who work in social housing to read the report — or at least the executive finding , if they do not want to go through the chapter that I go through . Sir Martin outline the horrifying way that people be treat . that be a shame for our country , and we must do well . hopefully , the legislation we be bring forward will bring about a cultural change . I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman that social housing should be of high quality , safe , affordable and warm , and this Government will continue to ensure that . safety will not be compromise in our building 1 . 5 million home ; nor will build 1 . 5 million home compromise our ability to bring up to standard home that be not up to standard . we have all see the report , and we have all see on television programme that show people still live in damp , mouldy property . that have to end . I also welcome the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister . the people in my constituency of Chelsea and Fulham stand shoulder to shoulder with the people who live in Grenfell Tower , who have suffer hugely . the pain be still feel throughout the whole community . I be delighted to hear my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) highlight again the culpability of the local council and the contractor . I know from my own experience that there be much for the council to do to improve its respect for , and the way it deal with , people live in social housing . I pick up on the point make powerfully by my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) about disabled people , 15 of whom die in Grenfell Tower because they have no personal emergency evacuation plan . I , like she , welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s commitment to introduce regulation to improve the fire safety and evacuation of disabled and vulnerable people , but when will we see the detail ? will those regulation apply to all disabled resident , wherever they live ? what legal weight will they have ? can we be absolutely sure that everything be be do to ensure that disabled people have the evacuation plan that they need in order to escape in the event of a terrible fire , such as that at Grenfell ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . since take office , we have ensure that all the outstanding phase 1 recommendation be fully consider and respond to . the Government announce on 2 September 2024 that a residential PEEP policy would be take forward , and we also commit funding for it . the Government will lay regulation as soon as possible , and social housing provider funding will be make available this year . this policy aim to improve the fire safety and evacuation of disabled and vulnerable resident in high - rise and high - rise residential building in England by provide resident who have disability and impairment with a person - centre risk assessment that identify appropriate equipment and adjustment . it aim to aid their fire safety and evacuation by ensure that there be a residential PEEP statement that record what vulnerable resident should do in the event of a fire , and record information for fire and rescue service , in case they need to undertake evacuation . we will continue to keep that under review . I refer the House to my declaration of voluntary interest . I commend the Deputy Prime Minister for the sensitivity with which she be approach the issue , both with family and in the House today . as she know , mediation effort with resident of Grenfell be be lead by Lord Neuberger and other . I genuinely believe that mediation be of massive value in this situation . I realise that much of this be in the legal sphere , but can she and the Government commit in any way to support those mediation effort ? it be absolutely right that we look at all option , and I be happy for the right hon . gentleman to take that matter up with the safety Minister as well . we want to continue to support the community , who have be through so much . I visit the site and meet the headteacher of the school ; child who be not even bear when the tragedy happen be still suffer the effect of the trauma today . we be commit to support the community , the bereaved and the survivor for as long as it take . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her response to the report on the Grenfell tragedy . flat in a large leasehold block in my constituency be give a b2 EWS1 certificate by Adam Kiziak of Tri Fire Ltd . he and Tri Fire be now be investigate for potential malpractice by the Institution of Fire Engineers . one of my constituent , a leaseholder in that block , tell I that they do not know whether their certificate be valid , or whether their problem can be remediate through the building safety fund . they do not even know whether their block still have a safety issue , and that be quite apart from the fact that those need to move can not sell because mortgage lender will not lend . how and when can leaseholder such as my constituent get the assurance they need , include the assurance that no more fire inspector will be allow to get away with what Adam Kiziak do ? I thank my hon . friend for that very important question , and I be sorry about the situation that her constituent find themselves in . I understand that the relevant professional body be investigate that case , and it would be wrong of I to comment on the specific , but we be work to encourage mortgage lender to act proportionately , in order to provide support to leaseholder and buyer in building with EWS1 certificate that mortgage lender be not accept . where a building be in a remediation scheme or the leaseholder be protect by the Building Safety Act 2022 , we expect the 10 lender that have sign the industry clad statement to honour that statement and not require the EWS1 . if my hon . friend want to speak to the safety Minister about that case , I be sure he would be happy to meet she . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s statement . I particularly welcome the Government ' s acceptance of the recommendation on professionalise and regulate fire engineer and assessor , not least because five year ago , in the Committee on the Fire Safety Act 2021 , I table new clause 2 , which would have create a public register of fire risk assessor . have my new clause be accept , we might have be able to avoid the develop scandal of the issuance of potentially fraudulent EWS1 certificate by Tri Fire , which could have a devastating impact on thousand of leaseholder , include some in my constituency . in the light of those concern , which have be raise both in the medium and in the Chamber today by member from all side of the House , can I urge the Deputy Prime Minister to convene a meeting for all mp whose constituent be affect , and do she agree that it be time that the police investigate those report ? let I expand my invitation : I be sure that the safety Minister would be happy to meet the hon . Lady . we will legislate to make it a mandatory requirement that fire risk assessor be competent to perform their critical role , and be certify against approve standard by a certification body accredit by the United Kingdom Accreditation Service . the Government be support an industry - lead british standard for fire risk assessor ; that standard be currently be draft , and once it be complete , that will create a single , clear definition of competence against which certification and qualification should be map . our thought today be obviously with the Grenfell survivor , and the family and friend of those who die . I thank my right hon . friend for her comprehensive response to the inquiry report . I think I agree with everything she say , but I seek one point of clarification , and there be one area in which I will push she to go a little far , if I may . first , as my right hon . Friend say , it be really important that we respect and value social housing tenant and treat they equally . will she give social housing tenant access to the building safety fund on equal term with private leaseholder ? secondly , the testing of product by construction manufacturer have be a disgrace for many year . they have go from one testing house to another until they have find one that pass their product . those product could come on the market , have have several failure and one pass . will my right hon . friend pick up a cross - party recommendation make by the Select Committee in the last Parliament — the recommendation that the result of every test do on a construction product be make public , whether the result be failure or a pass , so that we can all see the real strength of product , and whether they be fit for purpose , before they be put on building ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment , and I be certainly happy to look at that recommendation . we accept in full all the recommendation that the phase 2 report come out with ; that be an important baseline , but I be happy to look at what more we can do . turn to social housing , we will set out plan in the autumn Budget to give council and housing association the rent stability that they need in order to borrow and invest in new and exist home , while also ensure appropriate protection for exist and future housing tenant . we will bring forward detail of future Government investment in the forthcoming spending review , and we will keep that issue under review . leaseholder listen to the Deputy Prime Minister ' s very comprehensive statement will have hear she mention the role of developer in remediation for block cover in inadequate and dangerous cladding . can she explain in more detail what happen when developer have default in some way and be no long in existence , and freeholder then seek to visit the cost of remediation on the innocent leaseholder ? I think the legislation cover those situation to some extent , but it would be helpful if the Deputy Prime Minister provide more detail . those freeholder will get access to the cladding remediation scheme . we be really clear that building owner must fix their building — there be no doubt about that — and there be already legal power to force landlord to act . we will make they do so quick and give they a hard bite , but we also recognise that in some situation , that will not happen . that be why the cladding remediation scheme be available . the Secretary of State be right to say that progress have be make on build safety , but that we need to go much far . as she know , fire and rescue service have already make huge improvement in this area , through both new equipment and improved process , but we must roll out strong national standard across the fire and rescue sector . what progress be be make on establish a national college of fire and rescue ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the recommendation of Sir Martin ' s phase 2 report be very clear , and we be take they forward . we intend to launch a consultation this summer on the college of fire and rescue , include its propose function and structure . deliver a college will require careful planning and investment , as well as legislation to ensure that it have the necessary legal foundation . we be also consider funding model as part of the spending review . I welcome everything that the Deputy Prime Minister and other right hon . and hon . member have say , but there be a fatal flaw that have still not be raise . speak as someone with 30 year ' experience in the real estate sector , I urge the Deputy Prime Minister and her official to focus on the single staircase . the 2009 Lakanal House report recommend that fire suppression system — sprinkler system — be instal retrospectively in building above six storey . that be the good way to save life , and I think we need to look at that recommendation again for exist building . future building above six storey can still be design with a single staircase until 2028 ; I urge the Deputy Prime Minister to say that that be too long . I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution to this debate , and for his expertise in this area . the approve document b be now subject to continuous review by the Building Safety Regulator , which have already take step regard this matter , and a wide review of build safety regulation will be undertake . we will consider what action be need on all result recommendation . I thank the Secretary of State and her team for their work on the Government ' s response to the inquiry . have spend my life in the construction sector , I can tell the House that fix construction product be incredibly challenging . I really welcome the Green Paper publish today , because we have to get that right . I have two question for the Secretary of State . first , could she confirm that the new regulator and adviser will work with Government and industry body , include the Construction Leadership Council ? it be co - chair by the Minister for Industry and Mark Reynolds of Mace , and have already do some brilliant work on build safety . secondly , could she set out a bit more clearly what teeth the new regulator will have to tackle dodgy developer and cowboy builder , big and small ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and yes , those body will work together . that be what we want to see . we have grant funding and support to the Building Safety Regulator and the Health and Safety Executive to improve the support that be offer , and we will continue to do that . the body will have tooth . we will be look at what further legislation we may need , but we expect action to be take where there be issue and where thing have be highlight . when action be not take , we expect there to be consequence . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her commitment to the inquiry ' s recommendation and her commitment to systemic change . pick up the thread from two Government Members on an oversight mechanism for state - relate death , I be shock to discover that it be nobody ' s job to track recommendation from prevention of future death report and make sure they be enact . those have relevance for victim of huge tragedy such as this , but just as much for individual tragedy , such as that of one of my constituent . I have a private member ' s Bill on that proposal . will the Deputy Prime Minister meet I to talk about this idea in detail and how it can be enact ? the hon . member be absolutely right to raise the oversight mechanism . I think I have address some of that and the wide issue , not just in term of this inquiry , but all the inquiry that we have have . there have be far too many inquiry into tragedy , in the sense that these scandal and tragedy should not happen in the first place . we be committed to look at oversight mechanism , and I have detail the oversight mechanism I expect from my Department and the recommendation from Grenfell . I be happy for she to share that information with my Department , and I will take those consideration into account . my thought today be with the survivor of the Grenfell Tower disaster and the 72 family who be still mourn the loss of a love one . I pay tribute to their immense dignity , as they continue to fight for justice . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s clear commitment to implement all of Sir Martin Moore - Bick ' s recommendation . I have constituent live in block with fire safety issue . those be often not clad - relate issue , but issue identify as part of the wide scandal in the construction industry uncover by fire safety inspection post - Grenfell . in some case there have be terrifying fire in these block , leave resident feel unsafe and leaseholder trap in unsellable flat , as build owner and construction firm argue over who be responsible for the fire safety defect and fail to resolve the issue . can the Deputy Prime Minister therefore say , as she move forward to implement Sir Martin ' s recommendation , when she would expect my constituent to have a clear plan , with a timescale attach to it , for the remediation work need in unsafe building ? where be the accountability in the meantime ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend that , nearly eight year on from the tragedy of Grenfell , it be completely unacceptable that people be still live in unsafe building . I respect and pay tribute to what previous government have do . that legislation have enable authority to take action , and we have be support they in make sure that action be take . our remediation acceleration plan will also outline how we can ensure that those responsible for remediate building , whether that relate to fire safety or any other defect , be hold accountable , so that we can take those action and get that remediation do as quickly as possible . I do not want it to take another eight year before people be live in safe and secure home . I expect to do it as quickly as possible , and action be already be take . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for what she say today and how she say it . I hope that the family of the survivor of Grenfell Tower have hear what she have to say and find some reassurance in the acceptance of all the recommendation . I have resident in my constituency who be trap in just the late chapter of the fire safety scandal . these resident have EWS1 form similarly sign off by the now notorious fire safety engineer Adam Kiziak . they find themselves unable to sell their property or remortgage . even more fundamentally , they do not know whether they be live in a dangerous building . neighbouring building , build at exactly the same time and that have be sign off or have their EWS1 form produce by a different fire safety engineer , have already be strip of their cladding . I be incredibly grateful to hear that the Government have accept recommendation 15 and 16 and that they be look at a professionalisation of the fire safety industry , great regulation and a commitment to great recruitment . we know that those be some of the issue that have underpin the EWS1 scandal . I urge the Deputy Prime Minister and her team to think about emergency measure . it can not be right that we just overlook the EWS1 form that people already have , because people do not know whether they be live in safe building . we have to fundamentally and rapidly reassess the safety of those building to allow they to be sellable or remediate again . I refer back to what I say to my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) : I absolutely accept that people should be in safe and secure home . the Government remediation fund have a robust audit process in place to assess the quality of fire risk assessment of external wall . the audit process ensure that assessment carry out for building in our remediation funding programme meet the appropriate standard . where those standard be not meet , we will take action to ensure that be address . the report from the Grenfell Tower inquiry be utterly scathing about the role of central Government and their obsession with deregulation . the drive to scrap so - call red tape be a key failing , which lead to such a terrible incident and the avoidable loss of life . will the Deputy Prime Minister confirm to the House that that approach have be ditch in relation to policy concern fire safety , build safety and the construction sector ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight that just about every system fail , as I outline in my statement . everybody need to understand what lead to what happen on that night in Grenfell . action have be take , and the regulatory system be not the same as the one in place back in 2017 . there have be a number of act of Parliament , which have mean that there be more instruction and more legal requirement for build safety . we will continue to update that , and we have legislation go through at the moment in Parliament to hopefully deal with social landlord and give renter more protection , too . we know there be much more for we to do , and I hope that we will continue to work across the House to put safety at the heart of everything we do . the legacy of Grenfell should be that we take notice and do not just say warm word at this Dispatch Box , but take the action need to protect people . first , may I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for bring the report forward and the Government for accept all its recommendation ? I echo the point from around the Chamber that our thought today be with the survivor and the family of the victim . as be often say , justice delay be justice deny . will the Deputy Prime Minister please give a timeline for when the company mention — Arconic , Kingspan and Saint - Gobain or Celotex — and the testing firm , which cover up these fail result , will face justice for their dishonesty and mis - selling , which so tragically contribute to the death of 72 innocent resident ? I echo what the hon . Gentleman say about where all our thought and sentiment be today in the Chamber . I speak about justice be delay , and it be awful that people still have not get justice and be fearful that they will never receive justice . the police have say that this will take time . this be one of the large and most legally complex investigation ever conduct by the Metropolitan police , with more than 180 officer and staff dedicate to it . we will continue to support they in their important work . the police have recently confirm that they have everything they need to do that work , and we will continue to support their effort . I speak in my statement about procurement and make sure that we can do something on construction product . my hon . friend the Building Safety Minister be take that forward . in my constituency , tenant in social housing be regularly treat as second - class citizen , and it be a shame and a stain on our society that that be so . many of my constituent be desperately worried about clad remediation follow the terror of Grenfell . the Scottish Government receive about £ 97 million from the UK Government for remediation , but it be confirm later last year that virtually none of it have be spend for that purpose . this year I send the Scottish Minister responsible a detailed set of question about progress . I ask how many high - rise building — building at least 18 metre in height — with aluminium composite cladding have be identify , how many of they have be identify as require remediation , and how many have be remediate . my question continue , but not one of they be answer with datum or number . these be people ' s home , the home of mum and dad and child . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that the Scottish Government must get a grip on this topic , and will she undertake to provide such advice and assistance as her Department be able to supply ? as my hon . friend have say , this be a devolved matter , but I be happy to work with the Scottish Government . I hope that they have look at what we be do in respect of the remediation acceleration plan , and also at the reform that be under way to drive up standard in social housing through strong regulation and enforcement measure , strengthen tenant ' voice and improve their access to redress . my hon . friend be right to raise these issue , and I hope that the Scottish Government be follow in our footstep and will continue to learn from the legacy of Grenfell so that people in both Scotland and England can feel safe . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for , in particular , her comment about the way in which resident be treat . there have be strong recommendation for a review of the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 . my former role involve listen to and try to support the many local community organisation that be deal with the enormous gap in the humanitarian response that have be leave by the local authority ; the problem continue for week . can the Deputy Prime Minister tell we when we will hear about the timing and the format of that review of the Act ? we have look at the Civil Contingencies Act and also at the category 1 training , and we have say that we accept what have be say and will take action . we will work with local partner in scope progress for local authority in regard to the training , and we be work with all other Departments to ensure that we can do that as quickly as possible . I commend the hon . Lady for her comment about social housing tenant . have listen to what have be say by member on both side of the House in support of their constituent , I hope that those outside the House have be listen as well . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and for her continued commitment to secure justice for the victim of this terrible tragedy . I have the opportunity to meet some of the victim ' family , and I commend their bravery . let I also pay tribute to my constituent Rod Wainwright , who be one of the first responder on that dreadful morning . do the Secretary of State agree that we need to do more to support those in our emergency service — such as Rod and his colleague , who be also victim of this terrible tragedy — and that we should join my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) in hope and pray that we never have to see an event like this again ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and I too pay tribute to Rod and his colleague . not long after my appointment as Secretary of State , there be another fire in the borough of Barking and Dagenham . the same first responder go out again , and the trauma and the fact that they put themselves in harm ' s way without question or fear be a testament to the work that they do . we owe they a debt of gratitude , and we also owe they the ongoing support that the Government continue to provide . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her statement , and for the update on phase 2 . I think we be all encourage by her commitment to ensure that those responsible be hold accountable under the law of the land , and also to ensure that safety be improve . last December , the Government embark on plan to ban the firm involve in the Grenfell fire from public procurement . that be a welcome step , but what further step can be take to make all firm involve in build work liable for ensure that all material and other product be fit for purpose ? lesson must be learn for the future from this awful tragedy . may I also ask the Deputy Prime Minister to share the conclusion of the report with all regional administration , especially the Northern Ireland Assembly , so that safety can be improve throughout this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and we all gain ? my hon . friend the building safety Minister be in Northern Ireland yesterday . I entirely agree with the hon . Gentleman that we should all work together to improve safety . we must ensure that the Building Safety Regulator , and what we have put in train , produce the result that we need . hopefully this will be a clear path , clarify what people ' s legal obligation be and make it plain that if they do not do what they will be expect to do , there will be absolute enforcement of the rule . Vehicle Registration Offences ( Review ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for a review of certain offence relate to vehicle registration mark ; and for connected purpose . I thank the road Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , for be present today . when I be elect I do not expect to be a road safety campaigner , but since I become the MP for West Bromwich , family after family have come to I have lose a husband , a mother or a son as a result of other people ' s dangerous driving . our road be use by million of people every day . they be vital to our community and our economy , and to keep we connect . Most people drive safely and be just try to take their kid to school , get to work or do the weekly shop , but there be some selfish people who use our road as racetrack , who care nothing about risk other people ' s life , and who be evade capture by use dodgy ghost number plate . one of the central mission of our Labour Government be to " take back our street " and restore a sense of safety to our community . we have already invest million in fill pothole to reduce danger , and I hope that we can now take action on something that be make our road unsafe for all . the issue of so - call ghost plate be first bring to my attention when I be stand on Kenrick Way , a busy a - road in my constituency , with our local police and crime commissioner and the Secretary of State for Transport . we be talk about the nightmare car race that cause hell for local resident on Friday and Saturday night , when as many as 50 car converge on the area to race up and down that long straight road . the police and crime commissioner , Simon Foster , and local road police expert explain that it be increasingly hard to catch these dangerous driver owe to the rise in ghost plate , or " stealth plate " . that be the first time I have hear of ghost plate , and I believe that today be the first time that they have be raise in the House . there have be little mainstream medium coverage , but it be clear from TikTok and Instagram that they be widely know . I thank the former camera commissioner Tony Porter and Fraser Sampson , as well as Rob Gurney and Stuart Barnes , Chief Inspector Keeley Bevington and West Midlands police for their advice and their hard work over the year in bring this issue to light . so what be a ghost or stealth plate ? they look like normal number plate to the human eye , but they have a reflective coating , or have be interfere with in some way , which make they unreadable to the infrared police speed camera on our road . those who Google " ghost plate " will be present with website where they can buy a ghost plate online for as little as £ 30 , make the vehicle " invisible " to the automatic number plate recognition camera that police use to stop driver speed and keep our road safe . those website be full of disclaimer reassure we that they be perfectly legal — as long as we do not use they on the road . the fact be , however , that they be be use on our road , by people who want to speed around freely , run red light , and do much bad . right now , if someone have a ghost plate and they speed past a camera at 100 mph , the likelihood be that they will not be catch . it be illegal to use these plate , but the current consequence of be catch with one be far too insignificant . at the moment , the penalty for drive with a ghost plate be just a £ 100 fine — no point and no driving ban ; just £ 100 — and that be if they be catch . it be less than they would get for a speed ticket . for those want to drive around recklessly on our road , or commit even bad crime , why would they not do so , when the penalty be so small ? the scale of the use of ghost plate be not yet widely know , although we do know there be major issue with clone plate and wide form of dodgy plate . one study find that as many as one in 15 driver may already be use anti - anpr technology , but among some group it could be even high . one police exercise conduct in London examine more than 1 , 000 taxi and private hire vehicle , and find that 40 % of those vehicle have ghost plate . Wolverhampton council — my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) be in her place — be one of the local authority take a lead on this issue . it be work with the police to use new type of camera to find and punish driver use these ghost plate . rochdale trading standard have also be among the pioneer in combat these plate . those organisation have do great work , but it be truly a national problem . I worry that the supply of ghost plate be make all our road less safe . in the west midland , 1 , 000 people be kill or seriously injure on our road each year . across the UK , the figure be 30 , 000 people . I have be work with the charity RoadPeace , which have help constituent of mine when they have suffer terrible loss , such as Diane , whose husband be kill by a driver on her phone , and a family in Oldbury who lose their mother and grandmother when she be hit by a car that speed away . a couple of week ago , the RAC find that almost half of UK police force have catch motorist drive more than 90 mph on 30 mph road , and West Midlands police clock a driver go at 100 mph on a 30 mph road . if a driver be use a ghost plate , most current police camera will struggle to identify the car , and catch and punish the driver . the police and local authority be get wise to ghost plate and invest in new technology to catch they , but right now it be too easy to buy one , and the penalty for get catch be far too soft . there be also no consequence for the company that sell the plate online with disclaimer about people not be allow to use they on the road , when they know full well that that be exactly what they be be use for . this Bill call for a review of the penalty for ghost plate . I think we need to see fine of £ 1 , 000 as well as six point on someone ' s licence . the current fine of £ 100 be hardly a deterrent , but a £ 1 , 000 fine , the threat of six penalty point and potentially even vehicle seizure or licence disqualification would be way to clamp down on the use and supply of ghost plate . that would not only make our road safe , but ensure that our road can not be use to carry out crime . this issue also speak to something wide , which be the immense importance of the little piece of plastic that be a number plate . that little piece of plastic uphold the rule of our road — from traffic law and speed fine to car insurance , road tax and bus lane . it also enable the police to track and arrest criminal use car to flee the scene of crime , and to move drug and steal good . yet this little piece of plastic be removable , modifiable , cloneable and almost entirely unregulated . the humble number plate , as surveillance camera commissioner Tony Porter call it , be under threat , because the national camera system use to keep our road safe — ANPR — be be undermine by people use dodgy and ghost plate . it should be a basic right for all of we to feel safe as we walk , cycle or drive along our street , but the reality be that too many of we do not feel safe . that be why the new Government have commit to publish a road safety strategy — the first in over a decade — which I really welcome . the majority of driver in West Bromwich and around the country just want to get from a to b safely , but a select minority of people think they be above the law , and that by use ghost plate they can get away with run red light , drink driving , speeding and much bad . it can not be right that these driver be not face the consequence of their action , and be create so much danger for everyone else , so I urge the Government to consider this Bill in their road safety strategy . the driver use ghost plate have go under the radar for too long , but now they have be rumble , and it be time to crack down on they . question put and agree to . order , that Sarah Coombes , Chris Bloore , Antonia Bance , Mrs Sureena Brackenridge , Sonia Kumar , Shaun Davies , Gurinder Singh Josan , Jacob Collier , Sarah Edwards , Paul Waugh , Rachel Taylor and Leigh Ingham present the Bill . Sarah coombe accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March , and to be print ( Bill 188 ) . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at today ' s sit , business in the name of the Leader of the opposition shall be treat as be take on an allotted day provide under paragraph ( 2 ) of Standing Order no . 14 ( arrangement of public business ) ; such business may be enter upon at any hour and may be proceed with , though oppose , for up to six hour after the start of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; proceeding shall then lapse if not previously dispose of ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) opposition Day - [ 5th Allotted Day ] opposition Day Family Businesses the Speaker have not select the amendment . I call the shadow Chancellor . I beg to move , that this House regret the Government ' s decision to introduce a cap on Business Property Relief , mean that some family business pass down upon death will face Inheritance Tax for the first time in 50 year ; far regret the Government ' s other economic policy that will damage family business , namely raise employer ' National Insurance contribution , reduction to business rate relief , make employer potentially liable for third - party harassment , the power in the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] that would allow the Government to ban pub from sell pint , and the provision in the Employment Rights Bill for guarantee hour which will make flexible working hard to achieve ; and therefore call on the Government to support family business which provide employment for almost 14 million people , and contribute more than £ 200 billion in taxis each year , by lift the cap on Business Property Relief , not implement the increase to employer ' National Insurance contribution and business rate , and power to change unit of measurement , and to stop the progress of the damaging Employment Rights Bill . at the last general election , the Labour party — now the Government — tell we that it aspire to become the natural party of business , which be an absurd suggestion give what have happen over the past seven short month . it be as absurd perhaps as the Business Secretary claim to be a qualified lawyer , as absurd perhaps as the Attorney General claim to be a patriotic lawyer , or as absurd perhaps as the Prime Minister claim to be anything other than a lawyer . the economy have tank . inflation recently spike at 3 % , and it be to go still higher ; it be 2 % on the day of the general election , a legacy that we bequeath to the Labour party . borrowing be up — substantially up — on the forecast that the Office for Budget Responsibility produce at the last Budget , and growth have be kill stone dead . the Bank of England tell we that the economy will grow at half the rate it have originally suggest . it be no wonder that all the business confidence survey show confidence crash through the floor as a result of what this Government be do . business be lay off job , business be put up price , business be reduce investment , and business be sometimes have to put themselves up for sale or , even bad , be go under . on that specific point , a local businessman write to I : " I have spend over 50 year build my engineering business from the ground up , only to now face the possibility that my life ' s work could be dismantle due to an unfair tax burden . " why on earth would anybody want to start a business in the current climate , which have be create by the Government ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right , and we see that in the survey to which I refer ; business confidence be at virtually an all - time low . before this whirlwind of disaster visit we , we have a calm time during the general election . it be a Labour party on good behaviour with business , a Labour party with a manifesto that seek to reassure business — indeed , it explicitly rule out the possibility of an increase in national insurance — and a Labour party on the prawn cocktail circuit , countenance canap é s and calm , with the breathy seduction of the former shadow Chancellor and the now Business Secretary hop about in the background dispense free legal advice to whoever care to listen . with Labour , everything seem possible ; business would be safe in its tender hand — but it be not . Trust be destroy , and the wrong decision be take . why ? because those on the Government Front Bench have not a jot of real - world business experience . in fact , few than half of those around the Cabinet table have any experience in the private sector whatsoever . far from be the natural party of business , this be the most anti - business Government in modern political history . survey by the British Chambers of Commerce show that tax be now the no . 1 concern of business . accord to the Federation of Small Businesses , in the last quarter of last year , business confidence hit the low level ever record in its survey , save for the pandemic . it be almost as if the only way that small business be create today be through the shrinkage of large one . firm be be crush by the wrong policy . take the national insurance measure , which , despite have not yet commence — it come in in April — be already drive down employment and drive up price and inflation . it be a tick tax time bomb wait to go off in early April . it will affect the low pay the hard , with those in part - time work bear the brunt of this measure , and it will impact those in labour - intensive sector . ukhospitality find that three quarter of a million more job will be subject to national insurance as a direct effect of this Government ' s plan . accord to Young ' s , the brewer , the policy will add an extra 20p to the price of a pint . I be pleased that the right hon . Gentleman have express concern for people on low wage , and I hope he will therefore welcome the decision announce at the Dispatch Box by this Labour Government to increase the living wage by 6 . 7 % from April . as the party that increase the personal allowance , double it between 2010 and the present day , take million of people out of tax altogether , and that bring in the national living wage , we have do a great deal to support the low pay in our society in particular . the point be about the culmination of all the change the Labour Government have bring in . this Government have indeed raise national insurance , and may need to do so again in future . however , the key point be what the ramification of all these change will be — the living wage change , the cut to business rate relief , the red tape be introduce with the Employment Rights Bill and the national insurance contribution go up . that toxic concoction will kill off growth . that be the problem . do my right hon . friend agree ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be not as if the Government be not warn about these issue . in its report , the OBR make it extremely clear that while the headline figure to be raise through the national insurance contribution change be £ 25 billion , the net figure will be far less because of the behavioural impact that necessarily follow when job be tax — one do not need to have spend a decade at the Bank of England to know that . national insurance increase lead to few job , low wage and high price . of course , this Government be pile on the regulation with their Employment Rights Bill . we know that this will increase the risk of employ people at a time when the employment market itself be soften and put an end to flexible working practice , which not only benefit many business but suit many people , particularly young people and those who be more elderly . give that , it be astonishing that the Chancellor have launch a tax raid on family business . I thank the shadow Chancellor for give way . will he spell out the specific right in the Employment Rights Bill that he and his party believe should not be afford to work people in this country ? the hon . Gentleman ask a very fair question . the Bill will create a situation where employer be fearful of take on new hire because of the consequence that may follow , where trade union be advantage in the way the Bill suggest — the trade union paymaster who may , perhaps , support the hon . Gentleman , but who certainly support many of his colleague — and where the minimum service standard legislation that we bring in will , as I understand it , be overturn . none of those thing will be good for job , for people search for employment , for business or for the UK economy . rise — declare an interest ! I will happily declare an interest , Madam Deputy Speaker , as a proud member of many trade union . my declaration be up to date and free for all to see . I very much enjoy the shadow Chancellor ' s answer to my question , but perhaps I could pose it again , take a lesson from the leader of his party , and say that he might want to answer it this time . what be the specific right in the Employment Rights Bill that he and his party oppose ? the motion say that the Employment Rights Bill should be stop . which right in the Bill do he oppose work people have ? to paraphrase the leader of the hon . Gentleman ' s party , I have already answer his question . I do note his serial offence of be a member of several trade union at the moment — it be good of he to disclose that . the change to business property relief will see the break - up of many family firm . of course , the Government will say that it will have an impact only on the wealthy estate because of the £ 1 million threshold , but how many of those company will have the cash available to settle those liability ? the value of many business , of course , lie in their asset . liquidate those asset to pay those kind of liability , give that the asset be often instrumental to the effective working of the firm , be an absurdity . we also know that the change will damage business ' ability to borrow against asset when there be a sword of Damocles hang over their head by way of a potential future inheritance tax liability . research by CBI Economics for Family Business UK suggest that this policy may not even raise any money . the firm that will be impact have say that on average , they will invest 17 % less in their business as a consequence of this measure ; in fact , 15 % of those business have say they would sell their business altogether . of course , the rule will be complex . there will be plenty of red tape and legal advice to be take from solicitor — real one . some people will pay through dividend on which they have already be tax , so they will be tax twice . tax on tax , as we know , be the Labour party way . William Lees - Jones of JW Lees , the long - establish family brewery and pub operator in the north - west , have say that the family business tax would " inevitably reduce future investment in the company . " importantly , he go on to say : " it would also place our business at a considerable disadvantage to our competitor who tend to be list or own by private equity , sometimes overseas . " so it be that british institution , which , in some case , have be in the same family for decade , or even century , may end up shut down or be force to sell to foreign buyer as a result of this single reckless policy . what Labour seem not to understand be that every business start with an idea , a hope or a dream , and the individual then put their whole heart and soul , and every working hour they have , into build their business , often as a whole family endeavour over many generation . it be that , not just the economic and the job , that Labour be destroy . my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be where the dearth of experience of entrepreneurship on the Government Front Bench really show . we see this not just with BPR , but with agricultural property relief . family farm will be break up , with year and generation of people struggle and work hard , whatever the weather , to grow business and provide the food that we need tear asunder with a stroke of the Treasury ' s pen . in an interview , the Prime Minister say that the reason for do this to farmer be to be able to give they the nhs that they might need . only a week later , the £ 10 million fund that be there to support the mental health of farmer have be take away . it must stick in the throat of farmer when they be tell that they be not a priority , that food security be not a priority , and that they will now not have the health service in place , despite have to pay the tax that be about to come into force . the treatment of our farmer by this Government have be utterly atrocious . right before the general election , the shadow Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs — now the Secretary of State — look the NFU in the eye and tell they that , at least on inheritance tax , farmer have nothing to fear from a future Labour Government . the point that my hon . friend make be tell : they care nothing about any of they . within a matter of month of come into office , they have bring in their agricultural property relief change to the detriment of thousand of hard - work farmer up and down our country . I thank the right hon . member for give way . be the wellbeing and mental health of our farming community and the security of our food , which have just be raise by those on the Opposition Benches , a concern of yours when the Conservative Government sell our farmer down the river with dodgy trade deal with Australia and New Zealand ? be that your concern then ? rise — order . before the shadow Chancellor respond , let I say that " a concern of yours " would mean a concern of the Chair ' s . let we start off today ' s business in good form . Madam Deputy Speaker , I think that I should put it on the record that you have always be very pro - farmer , and that should never ever be bring into question by anybody in this Chamber . I have always be extremely proud of our record of support farmer up and down the country . that have be the case ever since I first come into the House in 2010 , represent a highly rural constituency right in the middle of beautiful Devon . this party should be very proud of the many scheme , financial support package and so on that it introduce while in government . I think that I would let the shadow Chancellor make a little progress in his speech before intervene on he . it seem odd to hear a speech about the economy from the conservative party without any mention of Liz Truss . now we hear mention of trade deal . let I ask he this very directly : do he think that the policy of Liz Truss — [ interruption . ] the shadow Chancellor can not hear what I be say , because the member behind he be shout . intervention should be very short . come to a conclusion quickly . do the shadow Chancellor think that the policy of Liz Truss be good for business investment and confidence in the economy ? the hon . Gentleman may or may not be aware of this , but , at the time of the mini - Budget , I be the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I have a lot to say about what be be propose before it happen , I have a lot to say at the time that it happen and I have have a lot to say since then . all of that be a matter of public record . [ interruption . ] if the hon . Lady want to intervene on I , I be very happy to give way . I have be invite to make an intervention , so I will very quickly say that while the right hon . Gentleman be reasonably outspoken on the mini - Budget , the same can not be say of his colleague on the Front Bench . I have make the position extremely clear . what be very clear be that we actually leave the current Government with an excellent inheritance — [ Laughter . ] well , where have it all go now ? we leave the Labour party with the fast grow economy in the G7 . we leave the Labour party with a near - record level of employment . we leave the Labour party with a near - record low level of unemployment . we leave the Labour party with 13 consecutive month of real wage growth . and we leave the Labour party with inflation figure , which have go up to over 11 % in October 2022 due to the Ukraine war , of just 2 % — bang on target — on the day of the general election . that be a decent inheritance . it have take the Labour Government seven short month to completely trash it , so we will take no lecture from they . we would do thing very differently , because we recognise that small business and family business be the backbone of our economy . they be the life and fire of our economy , but there be no life or fire in the Chancellor — just tragic mistake and miscalculation . the sugar rush of borrowing and spending that we see in the last Budget far bloat the size of the state and force taxis ever upwards . we have see the Government fail to grasp the nettle of productivity , give into those trade union paymaster , and award above - inflation wage settlement with no string attach whatsoever . they have have absolutely nothing to say on the issue of welfare , the budget for which have be balloon out of control . when we be in government , we reduce the welfare budget on my watch by £ 5 billion . the OBR record over 400 , 000 few people go on to long - term sickness and disability benefit as a result of the reform that we bring in . there be , however , more to be deliver . we go into the last election with a clear plan to save a furth £ 12 billion every year as a result of our welfare reform . where have the zeal for welfare reform go ? it have evaporate entirely under the Labour Government — in fact , it be never there . simply , if the Government have the backbone to come forward with some serious proposal to deal with the welfare budget , such that the Chancellor say at the Dispatch Box on 26 March that she will unwind the national insurance increase , the opposition will support she . I notice that the motion be on family business , but 96 % of they have either no employee or a very small number . they be unaffected , if not help , by the doubling of the employment allowance . only 4 % of family business have claim BPR ; most be unaffected . moreover , the shadow Chancellor can not name a single proposal under the Employment Rights Bill . will he apologise to family business for the total irrelevance of his complaint to the theme that we be discuss ? with great respect , I think the hon . Gentleman should get out a bit more and speak to some of those business . politic be about priority . for all their talk of be the natural party of business , the Government be instead simply reach for the socialist comfort blanket of tax , spend , borrow and regulate . it have not work before , it be not work now , and it will never work . the truth be that this Government be totally out of their depth , business be reel , and we be all pay the price . I thank the shadow Chancellor for open the debate . in their motion , the Opposition have set out a list of objection to the decision that the Government have take — or , in the case of the measurement around pint , decision that shadow Ministers seem to have entirely imagine . they may be able to list their objection , but they be unable to accept responsibility for the damage that they do to our economy . crucially , they be unable to offer any credible alternative . the motion make it clear than ever that the Conservatives have no vision , no idea and no plan to deliver the change that our country need . in contrast , Labour be the party with a plan for change — a plan to restore economic stability , boost investment and drive growth across the UK to put more money in people ' s pocket . we know that it be up to the Government to provide stability , security , fiscal responsibility , and to remove unnecessary regulation when it stand in the way of growth . it be business large and small — include family business and their workforce — that will create job and wealth and be the engine of growth in the economy . we know that pub , shop , trader and service across the country not only play an important role in all our life , but drive economic growth . those business and their workforce be the backbone of our economy , and they need a Government who will take the right decision in the national interest , even when they be difficult , to support our security and prosperity . I briefly remind Conservative Members of the context in which the decision have be make . that context be , of course , the inheritance that this country face after 14 year of the conservative party be in power . the context be that back in 2010 the then Government have to borrow £ 158 billion . fast forward another decade , and we have something call the pandemic , when we have to borrow £ 400 billion on top of that . collectively , that be a great big difficulty . five year ago , when the pandemic happen , I sit in this Chamber listen to all the intervention ask for more spending . do the Minister not agree that that be the problem the Conservative Government deal with ? the hon . Gentleman say that we have something call the pandemic ; we also have a Prime Minister call Liz Truss and that have a pretty big impact on our economy . I know the shadow Chancellor be distance himself from it . if his colleague would like to leap to Liz Truss ' s defence , I would welcome an intervention . no , they be not seek to intervene . funny that , Madam Deputy Speaker . perhaps , in closing , one of the other shadow Ministers can defend Liz Truss ' s record . will the Minister give way on that point ? yes — on Liz Truss ' s record . the way I see it , the problem that Liz Truss have with her Budget be that she do not set out her working . the problem with Rachel Reeves ' s Budget be that she do , and the country and the world do not believe it . that be far more detrimental to the situation we find ourselves in because she can not get out of that problem . that be the difference between Liz Truss and Rachel Reeves . wow . I should let the hon . Gentleman intervene more often if he be go to say that the only problem with Liz Truss be that she do not set out her working . I think the problem be rather more fundamental than that , as people across this country will attest . frankly , it be no wonder that Conservative Members want to bury their head in the sand and try and pretend the last 14 year do not happen . it be 14 year of mismanagement and decline , along with jolt of disaster , dig ever deep hole in our public service and our economic resilience . it be their decision that lead to their resounding electoral loss last year and it be their record in office that make necessary the difficult decision that we have to face on enter government . I thank the Minister for handle this debate in his usual courteous way . may I take he back to something that he say in his remark about hospitality business and pub deliver economic growth ? there be a small pub chain in my constituency that must find a third of its total turnover because of the action of this Government , with the result that it may have to close a venue that support a small village in my constituency . be that the economic growth that he think he be deliver ? I assume the hon . Gentleman refer to the change around employer national insurance , to which I will come in my remark . let I be absolutely clear about the context : no responsible Government could have let thing carry on the way they be . that be simply not a tenable situation and I think Conservative member know that . that be why at the autumn Budget , we take the difficult but necessary decision on welfare , spending and tax , and those decision be vital step towards restore economic stability and fix and support the public finance . as I say early , while Conservative member have take every opportunity to say they oppose those choice , they have yet to offer any solution of their own . difficult decision be necessary , so let I set out why we make some of the choice that we do . the Labour party manifesto say that by the year 2028 - 29 , it would increase spending by £ 9 . 5 billion a year . why , then , do the Budget increase it by £ 76 billion — eight time more than the Labour manifesto say ? as I be sure the hon . Member will know , upon enter Government and speak to Treasury official about the state of the public finance , we uncover a £ 22 billion black hole , which be know to then Ministers but which the OBR be not inform about . will the Minister give way ? I will give way one more time . the Minister might have notice that there be a big gap between £ 9 . 5 billion and £ 76 billion than £ 22 billion . his answer be clearly ridiculous . we be talk about such tax rise not because of the £ 22 billion fictional black hole , but because of the decision to increase spending by eight time more than the Labour party promise at the election . will he accept that or not ? the hon . member ' s comment be clearly ridiculous if he think the £ 22 billion black hole be fictional . it have real - term consequence in term of the pressure — will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress as I have be very generous in give way to the hon . gentleman . he will know that his colleague who be in government be aware of the in - year spending pressure and they choose not to share that with the Office for Budget Responsibility and thereby not to share it with the british people . that be the truth of what we inherit , and that be why we have to take difficult decision . I turn to some of the difficult decision that we have to take in the Budget last year , because the opposition motion refer to our decision on business property relief . I assure hon . member that the decision we take on that and on agricultural property relief be not take lightly . the Government recognise the role that those relief play , particularly in support small farm and family business , and that be why we choose to maintain rather than abolish they , which have mean maintain significant level of relief from inheritance tax beyond what be available to other . indeed , the relief will remain more generous than the last time they be change . the change we be make mean that agricultural and business property relief will be well target and fair . accord to the most recent datum from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , 40 % of agricultural property relief benefit the top 7 % of estate make claim . it be a similar picture for business property relief , with more than 50 % of business property relief claim by just 4 % of estate make claim . those datum bear out the fact that the benefit of the exist 100 % relief on business and agricultural asset have become heavily skewed towards the wealthy estate . it be neither fair nor sustainable to maintain such a large tax break for such a small number of the wealthy claimant , particularly in the light of the wide pressure on the public finance . that be why we be change how we target agricultural property relief and business property relief from April next year . individual will still benefit from the 100 % relief for the first £ 1 million of combined business and agricultural asset . on top of that amount , there will be 50 % relief , which mean that inheritance tax will be pay at a reduce effective rate of up to 20 % , rather than the standard 40 % . that sit on top of the other spousal exemption and nil rate band , which apply more widely within the inheritance tax system . Kilnside farm in my constituency , run by Bob Milton , be only 36 acre in total . it be a tiny farm , yet it will be subject to the new taxis . how can the Minister say that only 4 % will be affect ? even the small farmer in my constituency will be hit . to correct the hon . Gentleman , I do not say that only 4 % will be affect . we have set out that up to 520 estate claim agricultural property relief , include those that also claim business property relief , be expect to be affect in 2026 - 27 . that mean that about three quarter of estate will be unaffected and will not pay any more inheritance tax . all the datum on that have be set out in a letter from the Chancellor to the Treasury Committee , and if the hon . Gentleman look at that document , he will see some of the stat that I refer to . of the 500 or so that the Minister have just explain will have to pay inheritance tax , do he have any idea what number be small business , compare with the large estate that he seek to challenge in the legislation ? the datum that I refer to be base on claim datum . this be an important point that come up frequently when we have debate on agricultural property relief and business property relief . if one be to consider asset own by farmer or other business owner , the actual value of the asset do not give a guide to what claim might be make against inheritance tax because that will depend on the ownership structure , on debt that might be own or on what inheritance have happen early in people ' s life and so on . the only datum that can give an indication of what impact the change will have from April 2026 be the claim datum . the datum that I refer to early and which I refer to in response to the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) be the real claim datum that HMRC have . that be the datum on which we make decision around this policy and which inform some of the Chancellor ' s statistic in her response to the Treasury Committee , which the hon . Lady may like to consult . in Northern Ireland , the Agriculture Department have indicate that almost half of all farm , and 75 % of all dairy farm , will be impact by the inheritance tax . when will the Minister start to speak with , and listen to , industry leader ? quite frankly , the meeting last week be an outrage . he need to sit and listen to industry leader , who know the industry and be speak on behalf of real farmer on the ground who will be impact by this inheritance tax . the hon . Lady refer to meeting that I hold last week , both with representative of UK - wide organisation and those that represent other nation within the UK . there be a difference between listen to people and have to agree , because sometimes we listen and we disagree . that be the situation we find ourselves in after that meeting — we listen to concern but we have a different approach . I have be set out in this debate exactly why we have take this decision . I recently survey all the farm in my constituency , and 85 % of the people who respond say that they would be affect by this inheritance tax , mainly because of the cost of land in South Devon — practically all farm will be subject to it . when will the Government listen to the evidence that we be collect from our farmer , which show that their assessment that only 25 % of farm will be affect be not correct ? it be important to emphasise that the correct datum to work out the impact of these change be the claim datum . that be what be available to HMRC , and it be the basis on which we have establish how many farm estate be likely to be affect by the change . the point that we be try to make be that the Minister be look only at one dataset , not the big picture . we have speak a lot about farmer , but the business property relief be about the whole of the business community . will he not go away and have another look at this , take account of all the evidence that , hopefully , he have be listen to since the announcement of this reckless policy ? order . before the Minister continue , let I remind member who have not understand the etiquette that they can not just wander into a debate when someone be on their foot and try to intervene . they need to take part in the whole debate . I return to the point that I have make several time today : the way to understand how the policy on agricultural property relief and business property relief will work be to look at actual claim datum — the claim as they relate to individual estate . the overall value of farm or business do not tell we exactly what the estate value will be through an individual claim . that be the correct way to approach it . rise — I will make some progress , because I have give way many time on this particular point . I have plenty more to get through and I be sure that other member would like to contribute . depend on people ' s individual circumstance , a couple will be able to pass on up to £ 3 million to their child or grandchild free of any inheritance tax at all . if owner pass on their asset more than seven year before death , no inheritance tax will be due either . where any payment be due , it can be pay over 10 year interest - free in most circumstance . that benefit be not see anywhere else in the inheritance tax system . I recognise , as evidence today , that the inheritance tax reform generate strong view , but reform be necessary give the fiscal challenge that confront we . this be a fair approach that help put the public finance back on a sustainable footing . rise — I be go to make some progress . let I move on to the change to employer national insurance contribution , which be another of the difficult decision that we have to take at the Budget . I recognise that the change will have impact , but ask employer to contribute more be the fair way to restore fiscal stability and to provide essential service , such as our NHS , with the resource they desperately need . the rate of employer national insurance will increase from 13 . 8 % to 15 % , while the per - employee threshold at which employer start to pay national insurance , know as the secondary threshold , will be reduce to £ 5 , 000 . at the same time , we firmly recognise the importance of small business , and we will protect the small business and charity by more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 . that mean that next year , 865 , 000 employer will pay no national insurance contribution at all . More than half of employer will see no change or will gain overall from this package , and employer will be able to employ up to four full - time worker on the national living wage and pay no employer national insurance contribution . employer will also be able to benefit from other employer national insurance contribution relief , include hire under 21 and under - 25 apprentice , where eligible . these change broadly return national insurance contribution revenue as a proportion of gdp to the level that they be before the previous Government ' s cut to employee and self - employ national insurance , but in a way that do not result in high taxis in people ' s payslip . the Opposition ' s motion also refer to business rate . we want local shop and high street to thrive again , which mean we must act to support the business behind they , which have have to contend with change consumer habit and significant economic headwind in recent year . while online shopping be convenient and offer great variety , the high street bring people together . hospitality business have play a key role in bring people into town centre . however , at present the business rate burden fall more heavily on property - intensive sector , which be why business rate need rebalancing . from 2026 - 27 , we therefore intend to introduce permanently low tax rate for high street retail , hospitality and leisure property with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 . this will benefit more than 280 , 000 property . at the same time , to make this tax cut sustainable , we will apply a high rate to property with a rateable value of £ 500 , 000 and above . that group represent less than 1 % of all property , but cover the majority of large distribution warehouse , include those use by online giant , help to level the play field for high street business . the hon . Gentleman and other Ministers have constantly come back to the point about the high rateable value commercial premise , say that they include distribution centre for online giant . what proportion be they of the total ? Data be be set out by the Valuation Office Agency , which should give the right hon . Gentleman the detail that he request , but I be happy to write to he with the detail that be available . in order to sustainably fund a permanent cut for retail , hospitality and leisure property below £ 500 , 000 , we have to ensure that it be pay for . we be seek to increase the rate on property with a rateable value of £ 500 , 000 or more to ensure that it be sustainably fund . that will come in from April 2026 . my hon . friend be talk about the importance of sustainable funding , and I completely agree . it be fascinating that the last Government have a business rate relief system , which be a good one , but have nothing in the Budget for it at all , so they plan to cancel it entirely . that be why we be now in this situation . my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out that , under the previous Government , there be a series of cliff edge and one - year extension that provide no stability whatsoever to business try to plan investment , hire or expansion decision . that be why we have decide to extend the relief that the previous Government be due to end in April 2025 for one further year , before introduce permanently low rate from April 2026 . the Minister be talk about planning — I should declare an interest as a farmer ' s wife — and say that 500 farmer will be affect . of course , none of we can know who be go to die next year . while 500 farmer will be affect , there may be many , many more who might die and might be affect . there be a discrepancy between how many he think will definitely be affect — how many he predict will die — and the actual number of people who may be affect and can not plan their business accordingly , because they simply do not know . he argue that they can put their asset down a generation , but no one know if there will be a car accident and the young generation will be kill . he be simply tax tragedy . I think I be follow the hon . Lady point that in many case no one know when inheritance tax will be due , because people can not predict the sad event that may happen in their life . but it be clear that , in try to work out the impact of change to tax policy , the good source of datum be the actual claim datum for those relief in the past . that be exactly what we have use . we have look at the HMRC datum on actual claim under agriculture property and business property relief . that be what determine the datum that I mention of up to 520 estate be affect in 2026 - 27 . my point be that the Minister may be correct that 520 estate will be affect , but other who may be affect will need to plan their business and live accordingly . that be why so many more people be affect by his announcement than simply those who will die next year or the year after . I return to my point that three quarter of estate claim agricultural property relief , or agricultural property relief and business property relief , will not pay any more inheritance tax in 2026 - 27 as a result of these change . in term of the extra inheritance tax liability , which be what the datum about claim point towards , the data be clear that the majority of estate will not be affect . as I mention to several of the hon . member ' s colleague on Conservative Benches , the data be set out in quite some detail in the letter that the Chancellor write to the Treasury Committee . if she have a look at the datum in that letter , that might answer some of her question . I will briefly finish my comment in relation to business rate . I be thank my hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) for intervene to point out what we inherit from the previous Government : a situation where relief for retail , hospitality and leisure be chop and change year to year . indeed , from April this year there be to be a cliff edge , so it would have go away entirely — accord to the plan we inherit from the previous Government , there be to be no relief at all after April . we therefore decide to extend the relief at a fiscally responsible level for a further year , ahead of our permanent reform come in . while we be on the subject of hospitality , let I address the absurd notion in the Opposition ' s motion — I do not believe the shadow Chancellor mention this in his comment — that the pint be under threat . the pint be part of our nation , and we do not need a new law to protect the pint any more than we need a new law to say that the sun must rise in the morning — I wonder whether the Opposition Members who draft that part of the motion may have be close to a number of point when they do so . in any case , I be proud to reject the insinuation in their motion and to put on record — if it need to be say — that pint be at the heart of our nation and , under Labour , they will stay that way . the Government continually talk about how the Chancellor have shave one penny off a pint , but many publican in my constituency tell I that they be have to find an extra £ 2 , 000 a month for additional cost as a result of the Government ' s Budget . do the Minister accept that a penny off a pint be futile if there be no pub leave to drink in ? what I accept , as I say early , be that our difficult decision on employer national insurance contribution will have impact on different business across the country . but the hon . Member should welcome — business across the country will welcome this — the extra support that we have provide through draught relief to support those pub to succeed . that be an essential part not just of our economic activity across the country , but of our social life and enjoy pint . I know that enjoy pint matter very much to Opposition Front Benchers . I will try to make some progress , because there be quite a lot to cover in the Opposition ' s motion . on employment , the motion seek to undermine the Employment Rights Bill , so let I directly address those point . the Bill be the first phase in deliver our plan to make work pay , support employer , worker and union to get Britain move forward to bring great predictability to the life of work people . while I recognise that the flexibility offer by zero - hour contract , zero - hour arrangement and low - hour contract can benefit both worker and employer , without proper safeguard that flexibility can be one - sided , and it be far too often the worker who end up bear all the financial risk . that be why we have commit to end this one - sided flexibility , to ensure that all job provide a baseline of security so that worker can well plan their life and their finance . that include end exploitative zero - hour contract . we will deliver the commitment through two measure : first , a right to guarantee hour where the number of hour offer reflect the hour work by the worker during a reference period ; and secondly , new right to offer reasonable notice of shift , with proportionate payment for shift that be cancel , move or curtail at short notice . I will try to draw this to a close . [ interruption . ] opposition member might not want to hear it but , out of respect to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will bring my remark to a close . the motion expose a conservative party that be happy to object to the difficult decision that we have take but totally unable to offer an alternative plan of its own . the debate have also allow I to set out , on behalf of the Government , how we be move fast to take the sometimes difficult but necessary decision to deliver our plan for change . we be take the right decision to fix our public finance , to restore stability and fiscal responsibility , and to ensure that both business and their employee can work productively and securely to drive economic growth . the change that we have begin make be essential for economic growth , so we reject the Opposition ' s motion . we be determined to move far and fast to make people across the UK more secure and well off . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be delighted to speak on behalf of the Liberal Democrats about family business , because they be so important and make a distinct contribution to our economy and to their local community . family business be synonymous with quality , trust and reliability . family business have a strong sense of stewardship of their craft , their capital and their customer base . by their very nature , family business have the goal of nurture their business to pass through to the next generation and , as a result , have a vested interest in long - term decision , the stability of the economy and build a resilient community . where family business be locate on high street , they be often the anchor store , bring back loyal customer time and again . family business be present in every part of the UK . indeed , they be often the large employer in a region and the large philanthropic organisation in those community , too . but in table the motion , the official opposition do not seek to acknowledge or accept the damage that they have do to family business over the year . [ interruption . ] if the official opposition be patient , they will realise that I will not pull my punch when address the government , but it be an Opposition day debate , so let I continue to outline the litany of mistake that have occur over the year . the Conservatives scrap the industrial strategy , which be the bedrock of long - term planning . they fail to reform the break business rate system , which have hammer family business on the high street . they starve family business of seasonal workforce , which many of they need . their botched Brexit deal have deprive many family business of access to european market , raise trade barrier for import and export , and wrap they up in ream of red tape . they wreak havoc with their mini - Budget , make access to finance too expensive for many , and they fail to address the soar energy cost and broken energy market that have result in many small family business suffer from extortionate energy contract and be freeze out of the good deal . that be why it be disappointing to see that the Labour Government be make some of the same mistake . the national insurance contribution rise be unnecessary . the Government could have raise that £ 10 billion through other , fair mean such as taxis on big corporation that have raise billion , use that money to put public service back on their foot . the business rate proposal will be incredibly damaging for small business on our high street . on a number of occasion in the House , I have invite Ministers to look at House of Commons Library research commission by the Liberal Democrats that show that chain will continue to be subsidise by small independent . of course , there be also the change to apr and BPR , which will raise a relatively small amount of money for the Treasury but could be devastating to many small family business across the UK . Family Business UK , which I meet this morning , be urge the Government to run an impact assessment . it be conduct its own impact assessment in partnership with the National Farmers Union , where it intend to speak to more than 3 , 000 family business about the potential impact of these measure . may I invite the Minister either to intervene on I now or to say in respond to the debate whether the Government will meet Family Business UK to discuss the finding of its survey once it be complete ? we should not just think of family business as unit for tax revenue . family business be different . family farm rightly grab the public ' s imagination , but there be more than that . in my constituency of St Albans , I can think of many . Hedges Farm Shop be a much love , family run , award win farm shop , and its delicious meat be often on the menu of our award win restaurant . waterer tailor be run by two generation of the Masi family , provide bespoke , high quality tailoring and some especially fancy man ' s jacket . Burston Garden Centre be a long - establish family business with a lovely restaurant and be a fantastic place for a day out . we have beauty company , build merchant and electric vehicle charger store , all of which be family business . and one of my favourite pub , too : the Boot , hand down from Will to his son Sean . on the subject of pub , what on earth be this absurd idea in the Opposition day motion that the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill will somehow put the british pint at threat ? the pint be well and truly safe . [ interruption . ] the pint be well and truly safe , something I be sure the entire House want to hear . the pint be enshrine in law in the Weights and Measures Act 1985 , so this scaremongering be just total nonsense . I be tempt to call it a load of old Codswallop , but I would not want to insult the maker of that very fine pale ale . I could instead accuse the Conservatives of scrape the barrel . let we just say that the Conservatives ' claim that the pint will be abolish be as fanciful as Labour ' s claim that punter will see a penny take off the price of their pint . they win ' t . frankly , if the opposition think they be stand up for pub they need to think again . I say this not only as the MP for St Albans , where we have more pub per square mile than anywhere else in Britain , but also , I be proud to say , as the MP crown last year as pub parliamentarian of the year . [ interruption . ] I be , yes . the last Conservative Government prove , unfortunately , that they do not know their firkin from their pin . they could not tell a kilderkin from a craft keg . their defective attempt to introduce a draught beer relief end up exclude the very small craft brewer they be claim to help . when a former conservative Prime Minister have the audacity to have a photo op with the cask that he have mistakenly leave out of the draft duty relief support scheme , it be the Liberal Democrats who work with publican and small brewer to force that correction . if the official Opposition want to pretend to stand up for the great british pub , they will need to do their homework . they should get out and speak to the struggle pub and hospitality business that they have ignore . if the Conservatives want to continue with their pint - sized politic , it will be the Liberal Democrats who will continue to have the official opposition well and truly over a barrel . joke aside , there be change in the Labour Budget that be no laugh matter : the national insurance contribution change and the reduction in business rate relief will deliver a hammer blow to our pub . they will have no choice but to put up price for punter and many more may be push to the brink . a joint survey by lead hospitality trade association in Northern Ireland have reveal that 65 % of hospitality business will reduce their employment level , 55 % will cancel planned investment , and 22 % believe they will have to close their door . the same can be say of retail because of the extra threat around big business and online sale and the fact that they get away in the smoke around taxation . do the hon . Lady agree that there will be tumblewee on our high street , rather than the thrive high street that the Minister suggest today ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise those point . our high street be the beat heart of our community all over the UK . there be real concern that when the national insurance contribution change and the reduction in the business rate relief kick in , our high street will be absolutely hammer and we may indeed see tumbleweed . that matter for two reason : there will be an impact on our local economy and that could have a knock - on impact on people ' s confidence . many people with busy life do not always get to follow headline about growth , inflation , interest rate and all the rest , but they do look to their high street as the primary signal of whether or not the economy be work for they and whether it be work in their local area . in hospitality , of course , it be not just the increase in the national insurance contribution rate that will have an impact . the change will also mean that many part - time worker will not be recruit to work in those business . that will impact in particular woman , people from ethnic minority and young people . young people often work in hospitality as their first job . often hospitality can give they the chance to work after something adverse have happen in their life . I think all of we in this House can say that we support hospitality , and it be vital that we continue to support it . my hon . friend talk about business run by woman . I have a constituent who run a nursery in Somerton . she have be struggle to stay afloat for some time , after issue relate to the Conservative Government and the impact of the increase to national insurance contribution . the announcement on nursery provision could be the last straw for her business . do she agree that the Government must urgently look at the impact their measure be have on the early year sector ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that contribution and I absolutely agree . the House have debate many time the impact of the national insurance contribution rise . colleague may remember that the Liberal Democrats table a number of amendment to exclude particular group . we be oppose to the NIC rise full stop , and we put forward alternative way in which the Government could raise the revenue , but we say that if the Government be intent on pursue that particular measure , then some organisation should be exempt . we point in particular to health and care provider , include social care provider , but we also talk about early year provider , university , charity and hospice . we have debate such thing many time , and we urge the government once again to look very closely at the impact of the NIC rise and to do the impact assessment that we all so desperately want . my constituency have a large employer with several site who be now look at automation because of the impact of the NIC rise . it will add a quarter of a million pound to his bottom line , so he be actively look at how he can make redundancy to keep his business afloat . do my hon . friend agree that that be not the way to improve the local economy and make people feel good about job and investment ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that contribution . automation can have some value many sector and industry , alongside employing and train up the next generation , but it would be devastating to other sector if automation replace the next generation . that be particularly important in farming , but also hospitality . the very nature of hospitality be that it be hospitable . go to the pub and be serve by a vend machine be not really someone ' s idea of a good night out . I agree with my hon . friend that automation , when put alongside invest in the next generation and staff , can be a good thing , but as a replacement it can have devastating impact on the future of sector and on people ' s opportunity . we have rehearse on a number of occasion the impact of the Government ' s Budget on small business and family business across the land . the Liberal Democrats be incredibly concerned about the impact on family business and on the future of our high street . we will not be support the official Opposition ' s motion today , which I be sure they will be astonish to hear . [ interruption . ] they be astonish , as you can tell , Madam Deputy Speaker , from the chuntering from the Conservative Benches . notwithstanding , we urge the Government in the strong possible term to conduct an impact assessment and to look again at the amendment the Liberal Democrats table to exclude key organisation from their hike to national insurance contribution . rise — order . as the Front - Bench contribution be so substantial and so many colleague wish to contribute , there will be a time limit of five minute . I will start by do what the opposition fail to do , which be to recognise the particular contribution of family business . I think family business in the Vale of Glamorgan will be disappoint that the shadow Chancellor trot out a generic business conversation , rather than hone in on what be special about family business . what be special about family business can be count in the Vale of Glamorgan and across the country . family business make up the majority of business in the Vale of Glamorgan , but their contribution can not just be count , it can be feel . I feel it on a weekly basis in the sandwich of the Food for Thought deli on Barry high street , where I see the incredible effort that Nathan , Sarah , Leroy and the whole team put in . I feel it on a visit to Clive Edwards Contracts in Colwinston , where Josh Edwards be take on what his father start . I have feel it in the coffee of the Welsh Coffee Company , well consume on the coastline of ogmore - by - Sea . and I have feel it very specifically in the joy deliver by the trader of Barry Island , the primary effort driver who bring wave of tourist to our shore . I have mention those contribution be feel , because they be the distinct contribution of family business . many family business work way over time , put a huge amount of personal and financial risk and wide collective effort into their business , but they make a wide contribution too . the median tenure of a ftse chief executive officer be around five and a half year , but the tenure of family business be multigenerational . they be the driver of patient capital decision , they be the driver often of conviction in those decision , and they be the driver often of both philanthropy and value in a number of business decision , as Opposition Members have mention . the hon . Member be highlight the value that family business have in the community and beyond . I have a constituent who have be invest 80 % - plus of all their profit back into their business for many year , but with the change to business property relief , they be go to have to divest equity in the business . do he agree that that be not the right way to guarantee growth ? I thank the hon . member for her question ; let I say something that I be go to come to later . in all my experience of business , the one thing I have learn be that business be nothing but collection of people . they be mum and dad who drive their kid to school . they be people who drive through the pothole create by the Tory Government . they be people on our NHS waiting list who want a decent health service . of course it be difficult when we have to bear some of the burden of pay for our public service , but the people who run our family business benefit as well . let I hone in again on the contribution that family business make , which I be passionate about in the Vale of Glamorgan . family business be now look at the fact that employment allowance have be double . we know that 96 % of they be microbusinesse employ few than nine people . in fact , the vast majority be sole proprietorship . they be look at the fact that the path of corporation tax have be fix , bring stability back after a decade and a half of total chaos . they be look at the fact that late payment — the fundamental challenge for small and family business in the Vale — have now be crack down on . they will look at today ' s motion and feel the comfort of their pint be protect , too . the fundamental decision that family business make often come down to a question of endurance — a question , in particular , of how they can sustain themselves across generation and be productive . in that context , what the Government be do on late payment be critical . british family business be limit in their use of external finance . they often rely on cash flow , so to be able to deliver great cash flow by tackle late payment be a fundamental contribution by this Government . family business be also driver of technological innovation . almost half the family business in this country be user of accountancy software , move to digital bookkeeping far ahead of many other business . I be passionate about what this government be do in drive the adoption not just of technology but of artificial intelligence software in business . let I end where I start in my response to the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) . family business be indeed just collection of people . when we make choice on taxation , we be make choice on spending in our public service . those choice be at the heart of drive the long - term health , prosperity , stability and , indeed , effort of our family business . it be a privilege to stand here today on behalf of business in Beaconsfield , Marlow and the South Bucks village . these small family business be the backbone of our economy . they be the job creator , they play a vital role in help our community , and they deserve our support in this House . yet it be now clear to business in my constituency that they find themselves with a Labour Government who simply do not understand business . this be a Government who seem to think that just by say the word growth over and over again , it will magically happen . the truth be that business create growth , not hot air from the Chancellor . this Government be seriously damage business with a national insurance tax raid that will destroy job and put at risk thousand of business . time and again , business owner have warn of the consequence , but they have be meet with a wall of silence from the Government . why ? because this Labour Government simply do not understand business or the consequence of their action . at the end of last year , I host a roundtable of local , family - run , multigenerational business . they have be at the heart of our local economy for decade , but now they be struggle not just with the national insurance threshold increase or the difference that the Employment Rights Bill will bring in , but with skill shortage and the economic uncertainty that that will cause . now , thank to this Government ' s tax raid , they be be force to make impossible choice : to cut back on hiring , reduce investment or close their door altogether . let I give the House just one example . I meet the owner of a proud family business that have be serve Marlow for over 88 year . he tell I plainly that this Government ' s policy will make it hard for business such as his to survive . his story be one I have hear time and again . this government do not seem to get that , in lower the employment national insurance threshold so dramatically , they have make it almost impossible for business that employ lot of people to operate in the low - margin sector . do the hon . Lady agree that the Government ' s policy have create a hostile environment for family business to continue to invest in hire people and equipment ? the damage be that that reduce growth in our economy . the hon . Member make an excellent point . the policy be damaging ; it be a hostile environment for business and entrepreneur who make a difference and who grow the economy and our tax base . that be who this government be hurt : the people who will make this country great and grow we out of any of the economic issue that we be have now . by hurt entrepreneur and small business , we be cut ourselves off from growth . again , growth be not some mythical thing that the Chancellor refer to ; it be something deliver by hard - work small family business in this country . not only small business but all service - level job in our economy be affect . care service , retail , hospitality , event — they be just a few of the sector where business increasingly face the impossible choice of cut job or shut their business . of course , it be not just through national insurance that the Government be raid business or burden they with over - regulation . business already reel from the national insurance raid be face high business rate , an Employment Rights Bill that be destine to low employment and the destruction of family farm . just yesterday , the British Chambers of Commerce describe the stark reality of the " powder keg of cost " face british business . in the avalanche of inconvenient fact for the Government that the British Chambers of Commerce unleash , one stand out to I : 58 % of business tell the BCC that the cost will impact recruitment , mean few job at a time when we need the economy to be grow . this be economic illiteracy on steroid . I will always stand up for our local family business in Beaconsfield , Marlow and the South Bucks village . their message to I have be crystal clear : this Government ' s tax raid be damaging to they , to job and to growth for the future . I urge the Government to wake up to the disaster they be unleash on business in my constituency and across this House . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be very take by the point make by the shadow Chancellor when he talk about the excellent inheritance leave by the previous Government . we have have to listen to his view on what his Government have do and be give the benefit of his knowledge and his experience during his time in government . I regret to say that I have spend most of my adult life in the Labour party in opposition , but as a result , I have gain a huge amount of experience about opposition , which I be more than happy to pass on to the Conservatives . let I say this very clearly : if they continue to say throughout the next few year up to the next election that they leave an excellent inheritance for this country , they will be send into an even great electoral oblivion than last July . I urge they to put it on their leaflet , because I will certainly be put it on mine . I will also proudly be put on leaflet the measure in the Employment Rights Bill . let I talk about some of they : get rid of zero - hour contract ; introduce day one right ; and get rid of fire and rehire . I do not think , when the Bill pass and its measure be a success , that Conservative Members will be quite so keen to trumpet what terrible thing they think they be , but if they wish to do so , they be more than welcome to say on leaflet at the next election how they want to bring back zero - hour contract and the ability to introduce fire and rehire , and abolish day one right . do my hon . friend recall that the conservative party back in the 1990 under the previous Labour Government vociferously oppose the introduction of a national minimum wage , and might he reflect on that ? rise — what about the corn law ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) for his question . I be afraid I do not remember that , because I be far more youthful than I look but , as with the corn law , I have read about it in the history book and have no doubt my hon . friend be correct . I be also aware from the history book that the conservative party have often be very worried about the humble pint and what might happen to it . as a proud pint drinker , perhaps sometimes to the detriment of my health and my finance , I can say that the great british pint be go absolutely nowhere , not from the small business in Gateshead Central and Whickham and not from anywhere else . my hon . friend be make a characteristically powerful case . do the history book not show that Labour have always be the party of the pint ? Harold Wilson express enthusiastic support for preserve the pint measure . labour be the party of the pint , while the Conservatives do not serve anything more than small bitter . I defer to my hon . friend ; he be a learn historian and I dare say know far more about the history of the pint then I will ever muster . I have probably drink more than he , but he have probably read about more of they than I have . the title of this motion be " Family Businesses " . my hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) have already assiduously make the point to the shadow Chancellor that 96 % of family business will not be affect by some of the measure mention in this motion , but I wish to discuss some of the family business in my constituency , a couple of which I have speak to recently . meldrum , for example , be a successful construction business that recently conduct a transfer into employee ownership — a show of confidence in our economy . savour bakery be set up from scratch under this Government . it be a shell during the general election when I go to visit it . an orthodox Haredi family in Gateshead — generation of the same Gateshead family — have invest hundred of thousand of pound of their own money into set up what some might find slightly unlikely . I admit that when I first hear of it I be not sure that it would be a success . it be a kosher parisian patisserie in the heart of Bensham in Gateshead , and it have be a tremendous success . there be queue around the block most day and if anyone make the mistake of go in at 2 o ' clock in the afternoon , as I do last week , they will be greet by a coffee machine and an empty patisserie counter . the idea that someone can not set up a successful small business under this Government be absolutely for the bird . I have see it with my own eye in my own community — people do something incredibly challenge in a community that be not often support more widely in Gateshead . I be incredibly proud of they and incredibly proud of other small business like they . I be not astonish that we be discuss this interesting pick - and - mix motion , which might as well be call " thing the conservative party do not like that the Labour party have do " , because that be the nature of Opposition day debate . I be enjoy this opportunity to talk about the family business in Gateshead and about my passion — our passion on the Labour Benches — for the humble british pint . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be have so much fun that I will happily give way . the hon . Gentleman be give a very entertaining speech and I look forward to visit the business he mention , I hope , in the future . he have outline that business be be set up in his constituency and he be perfectly entitle to do so , but do he speak to the new business about the extra £ 800 per employee that this Government have put on it in the Budget , and what do it have to say about that ? I have speak to Josh who run the business about every single aspect of it and I assure Members that he be delighted with how his business be go . I be delighted — [ interruption . ] opposition member be chuntere from a sedentary position , as of course be their right , but my high street in Gateshead , for example , which I be pleased to say the Minister who will be respond later have be to visit , be wreck under the last government . the decision make by the last Government have a profound impact on my high street and those across the country , so the idea that the Conservatives be tribune of small business be for the bird . this government be go to rebuild the great british high street and we will do so by support small business . I will rightly be vote against the motion because I be afraid , to quote a former leader of the Conservative party , that it be an " invert pyramid of piffle " . it be a pleasure to stand here on behalf of dozen , probably hundred , of business across my constituency , many of which be run by family . it be discomforte to sit here and hear the sense of sheer denial and arrogance from Labour Members about what actually drive growth in our economy . what make I most despondent be that the Government ' s default ideological position and mentality be one where they ask , " what taxis can we raise ? " rather than ask how they as the Government can cut their cloth accordingly and pass on the benefit to the economy in the form of reduce taxis , their default position be to ask , " what taxis can we increase on the business that provide the very backbone of our prosperity ? " in that vein , family business provide employment for almost 14 million people across the country and contribute £ 575 billion to the national economy . these business be found on principle of entrepreneurialism , which I be proud that my party have champion for decade . labour be show once again that it do not understand the value of business ; it know only how to tax and regulate enterprise , which ultimately make our economy weak and poor . Labour Members may speak of their support and passion for small business , but they never speak of their experience of set up and run one . there be very limited experience of that on the Labour Benches . do my hon . friend agree that that be part of the problem ? have never set up and run a business , they have no idea of the impact of their policy on one . I agree wholeheartedly . that strike at the heart of the Government ' s lack of appreciation for what fundamentally drive the economy . to be fair to the Government , we may not know what their cv show , so there could be business experience but it be just not on their cv . my hon . friend raise a very valid point , but let we look at the fact . the Government will attempt to tarnish the Conservatives ' record , but in July Labour inherit the fast grow economy in the G7 , with unemployment at near - record low and inflation at the Bank of England ' s target . we have see a complete reversal of that , in part because the choice the Government make in the Budget have destroy that progress . the Government ' s Budget and fundamental overall approach threaten the future of family business through new red tape — we have the family business tax , the family farm tax and the national insurance job tax . business know that they be pay more and the Government know that business be pay more , and I do not know how some Labour member have the gall to sit there and think that their position be one of honesty and credibility when it come to grow the economy . a business in my patch have get in touch with I . Jack and his family run an apprenticeship training provider . Jack say , " my parent leave school with no qualification and over the last 50 year have work hard pay their way get on and build a good life and business for we as a family . since 2007 , they have be majority shareholder and owner " of a business call Birmingham Electrical Training , for which Jack be also a director . he go on to say that they " currently be the 2nd big provider of electrical apprenticeship in the UK " and " train 700 + apprentice in partnership with 275 local and national … contractor , many of which reside and work within " the west midland region . they " hold a department of education contract and be recognise by the Electrical Industry in provide a crucial role in train the next generation of electrician " . that be a pertinent point when the Government be pursue policy like the ludicrous clean heat market mechanism , which will require a step change in the number of electrical contractor to deliver on the Government ' s net zero folly . Jack make this point : " there be no way that I would be able to afford £ 800k worth of tax to access the business I have help build and grow over the past 10 year " as a result of the change announce by the Chancellor to inheritance tax . he will personally be liable for £ 800 , 000 that he will not be in a position to pay . that jeopardise one of the family business that form the backbone of the country ' s economy . he ask , " why would the government want to destroy family business , which be crucial to help local people and provide the growth in the economy in the year to come ? " that be not an isolated case . the Confederation of British Industry and Family Business UK have warn that change to business property relief could lead to up to 125 , 000 job loss and reduce economic output by £ 9 . 4 billion , as their analysis find that average family business would cut investment by a staggering 16 . 5 % , reduce headcount by 10 . 2 % and lose turnover of 7 . 4 % . that recognise the fact that the Government do not appreciate the fundamental positive benefit to wide society of promote small business and their long - term financial viability . the Government be make the UK a hostile destination for investment , both large and small . they must work to ensure that our country be the most attractive destination possible for business to invest and grow and to make we wealthy . for some family business like those in my constituency , their main competitor be international company . do my hon . friend agree that the Government have not consider how increase cost for UK business be make some of our family business less competitive ? my hon . friend hit the nail on the head . what ring in my ear be the word from the Chancellor just a few month ago when she say that business need to cut their cloth accordingly . I go back to my initial point : Government must also cut their cloth accordingly . the default position of the Government in support business should be to spend taxpayer ' money — the fund generate by the very business we be talk about — in the most efficient way possible , so that we can have the low possible tax base in our economy to make the UK a great destination for inward investment . the hon . member talk of cut one ' s cloth . perhaps he can tell the 14 million people employ by family business how he would cut the public service they rely on to fund the unfunded tax cut he be talk about make . the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention be a good one , in that he demonstrate that his party believe philosophically that it have to either tax or cut . the Government have no appreciation of the fact that money could be spend more effectively in the first instance . it be a fundamental ideological weakness of the Government . will my hon . friend give way ? order . you have 10 second leave , Mr Thomas . do you want to finish ? I will finish by say that I will always be proud to stand up for small business in Bromsgrove and the village , and across the country . I draw attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be a pleasure to follow my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) . I will just say that the clean heat market mechanism that he speak about , which be cause concern to a business in his constituency , be of course bring forward by the last Conservative Government . I will start by talk about the Employment Rights Bill , because some of we have just spend two month in Committee go through it line by line . I think that the House might want to hear about some of the opinion and position put forward by the Opposition during that process . the opposition try to exempt million of worker in some of the low pay sector from protection against harassment at work . we hear from the shadow Minister that he do not believe that public sector employer should offer facility time at all . the Opposition attempt to block well contract for teach assistant and other low - pay member of school support staff . a witness who be present as representative of business opinion have previously say that lockdown would kill far more people than covid . I do not think that the motion or the party put it forward be a credible voice of economic growth or business . the independent Regulatory Policy Committee look at the Bill back in November and say that eight out of the 23 category be " not fit for purpose " . be that discuss ? give that the committee be independent , do the hon . member give that point any credit when it come to discuss the Bill ? one of the pleasure of the Committee be that we have 970 page of transcript where those matter be discuss at length , and the Government be indeed bring forward further impact assessment on those point . look at my constituency and , indeed , the constituency of all member of the House , the economic record that we have inherit be one of pallid economic and wage growth . after 15 year , average real wage in Birmingham Northfield be £ 300 low a month than they be in 2010 . the cost of delay and cancel NHS appointment , crime that go without investigation and shortage in key teaching post be bear not just by our constituent , but by business . we should say this clearly : public service create value . business and the people who work for they need strong public service to sustain themselves and grow . when I recently meet small business on Northfield high street , we have — as you would expect , Madam Deputy Speaker — a serious and robust discussion about a whole range of Government policy and policy enact by the previous Government , but the first issue raise be crime and antisocial behaviour . anyone who have be a victim of crime can attest to the devastating impact that it can have on a person or business . my hon . friend make an eloquent point about the issue of antisocial behaviour and crime on the economy and particularly on small business . do he recognise that small business like mine in Harlow have be massively affect by the increase in crime and antisocial behaviour ? I be think particularly of tool theft and theft of vehicle . my hon . friend make a sensible point , and the issue that he raise be reflect in my constituency . that be one of the major barrier to get job and spending into our high street . if the Budget last year have fail to raise money for investment in public service , it would have be like change the colour of the shovel before continue to dig a hole in the same old ditch . we could not prolong the fail approach of the past 14 year . we can add to that the disgraceful situation that await the incoming Labour Government . for all the sound and fury that we have hear from the Conservatives , there be little mystery about that now . Richard Hughes , the chair of the OBR , tell the Treasury Committee : " when we have a high - trust relationship with the Treasury those thing be be well manage , and manage within the total . that system very clearly break down . " he say that " there be about £ 9 . 5 billion - worth of net pressure on Departments ’ budget , which they do not disclose to we … which under the law and under the Act they should have do . " the decision that await the incoming Government on public sector pay , which be the other element of the £ 22 billion , have be duck and delay until after the election . [ interruption . ] we need to be clear on that . the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) indicate from a sedentary position . he will know about the situation with the School Teachers Review Body . Conservative Ministers already know about the STRB ' s recommendation and that the recommendation of the other review body tend to be similar . give that the pay year start not in July or even at the beginning of the election period but in April , why be those recommendation delay ? because Conservative Ministers and their Departments be late to submit the remit letter and evidence . the Office for Manpower Economics have be clear on that point : " the work of the prbs be demand lead and essentially non - negotiable — department set the remit and timetable . " that be the truth of the matter . the additional cost be always come , and the only reason they come seven month into an election year be that Conservative Ministers be content for they to be so delay . conservative Members claim that they would not have accept those recommendation , but they have not say at any point what their offer to public sector worker would have be . I wonder whether any Conservative Member want to tell we today what their offer would have be , if not 5 . 5 % , have they win the election . it should not be a hard question to answer . what would the difference be in the pay packet of nurse , teacher and member of the armed force ? I would be very happy to take an intervention on that point . [ interruption . ] they can not answer the question . in the absence of an intervention from the Conservatives , I say for the record that this have be a hugely important week for the House with the increase in defence spending , and it be so important that Labour give a 6 % pay rise to member of the armed force — the big in 20 year . my hon . friend make his point as well as it could be make , and I thank he for his intervention . let we not forget the cost that the previous Government inflict upon business . their botched EU withdrawal policy have mean up to £ 7 . 5 billion in cost from custom check alone accord to HMRC , £ 1 billion from high energy trading cost , and a furth £ 1 billion from the cost of chemical regulation in that sector every single year . one former conservative Prime Minister say something like , " screw business . " at least we can say that he live up to his word on that . the motion be not a serious proposition . I hope that the House reject it . I must say , I be disappoint — as will be business owner up and down the country — that the Chancellor could not find her way into the Chamber today . if she have do , she might have learn a thing or two . in Tatton , there be family business that go back four or five generation . before the Budget , some be plan to get ready for the next generation — but not now . some , found in the 1800 , have tell I that their business survive two world war , the spanish flu , the high tax and economic lunacy of the 1970 , and even the recent covid lockdown , but the Chancellor ' s Budget will be the death of they . they have tell I that on their family business gravestone will be write : " RIP . 1830 - 2026 . Reeves ' budget the fatal blow . " here we have a Chancellor who want her legacy to be that she be the first female Chancellor ; in fact , her legacy will be as the grim Reeves reaper who fatally kill off family business and destroy enterprise in the UK . the Labour Government show no sign of understand business , let alone family business that employ 14 million people and add £ 575 billion to the economy . the family business be a live entity ; it need to be nurture , and if it be , it will grow and last hundred of year , to be pass on to the next generation . it have a unique place in the business ecosystem — it serve a special purpose . even previous Labour Governments know that . that be why they introduce the business property relief ; they know that it be require . but not this Labour Government — oh no ! now , the death of a family member could spell the death of the family business , too . the CBI and Family Business UK have warn that the change to property business relief alone could lead to 125 , 000 job loss and reduce economic output by £ 9 . 4 billion . business must think about how much money they will put aside for those tax change . with every £ 1 put into tax , they can invest £ 1 less in their business , which will stifle the growth of the company . this Labour Government talk about growth , but these measure will only kill it off . the impact be not just from inheritance tax : we have the family farm tax , the increase to employer national insurance contribution and the minimum wage change . every single one of those will add a final nail in the coffin of many of our business . do my right hon . friend agree that the myriad labour attack on family business will have a huge impact on business like vosper vehicle franchise in my constituency ? found in 1946 , it employ 600 people but face a £ 1 . 4 million increase in national insurance contribution and a future business property relief levy on the next generation , in an industry that have see a 20 % reduction in sale in January alone , follow the Government ' s so - call growth Budget . my hon . friend speak knowledgably and passionately about the business in her constituency , and she be right . a family business I speak to say , " we be already work on small profit margin . we do not know how we will cope . the enormity of the change will change the way we look at our business . what be we go to do ? we might have to carve up the business or cut it down . we might end up sell up or we might look for foreign investment , whether we seek that out or they seek we out " . they say that their business will not survive and thrive , and there be no doubt that it will shrink or end . another essential point , which other hon . member have mention , be that family business be the breeding ground of entrepreneur . family member will work of a weekend , be train up and go into the family business . People talk about love and passion — all those thing — but it be that entrepreneurial spirit that this Government will kill , along with job in local community , because family business have a special place in the heart of community . this Chancellor say that the change would only impact the wealthy of business — have we not hear that before ? the Government say that the farm tax would impact only the wealthy of farm , that the removal of the winter fuel payment would impact only the wealthy of pensioner , and that vat on school would impact only the wealthy of people : that be utter nonsense . the Labour party be remove from reality , ideologically drive and blind by jealousy . labour ' s raid on family business , worth about £ 500 million by 2030 — that be the Treasury ' s forecast — will actually lose billion of pound more . these tax change be ideologically drive and the Chancellor be kill the goose that lie the golden egg . there be a vacuum of business know - how and business knowledge among those on the Government Benches . what they be do to our country be an utter disgrace . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . unusually , I welcome the motion table by the Conservatives because it set down on the record , loud and clear , that they be no friend of work people , and they be no friend of work woman in particular . their motion call for an end to labour ' s groundbreake Employment Rights Bill and would allow bad employer to continue to exploit worker , to sack anyone who object and to continue pay woman less than man . that be not a surprise , of course , because the Leader of the Opposition have already make it clear that she think maternity pay have " go too far " and be " excessive " . statutory maternity pay be base on earning , and for most of the leave period it be set at a maximum of £ 184 a week or 90 % of normal pay , whichever be low . that translate to about £ 9 , 500 a year . I do not think many woman , or their partner , would think that be excessive . I be at least grateful that the Conservatives be be honest : they could not care less about work people . early , the shadow Chancellor be unable to tell we which bit of the Employment Rights Bill they want to get rid of . well , he should read his own motion — it be write in black and white . their motion explicitly object to labour ' s new law to finally make employer put a stop to sexual harassment in the workplace and to take all reasonable step to stop sexual harassment of staff by customer , contractor and service user . the Conservatives seem to be especially against that in their motion , which be peculiar , because just two year ago they say that they would bring in exactly the same law . what happen ? oh yes , I know : they abandon work woman , break their promise and leave shop worker , office staff and woman manager at the mercy of sexual harasser , and they want to do the same today . the other new law in Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill that the Conservatives seem to be especially against — it be in their motion , which the shadow Chancellor have not read — be the ending of exploitative zero - hour contract . their motion instead support the continued mistreatment of often low - pay worker who do not know from one week to the next how much work they will get or if they will be able to pay their bill . let we be clear : sexual harassment can often go hand in hand with exploitative zero - hour contract . imagine how difficult it be for a low - pay woman to complain about her manager ' s inappropriate sexual behaviour if she rely on he to give she enough hour to feed her family next week . zero - hour contract put way too much power in the hand of manager , and , with proper business planning , there be simply no need for they to be force on worker . in their motion , the Conservatives seem to have confuse know what people ' s hour be in advance with the new right of flexible working , which Labour be also introduce . they claim that those two thing be in conflict — of course they be not . People can still have a zero - hour contract if they want to , but if they want guarantee hour so that they have a secure income for their family , they will be entitle to that . if people want to work part time because they have kid or elderly parent , they will have a new right to flexible working that will allow that . the Conservatives ' motion be not clear on whether they support flexible working , but surely the Leader of the Opposition should understand and embrace Labour ' s new right to flexible working , give she report invention of Kemi mean time , or KMT , to explain be half an hour late for everything . maybe it be one law for she and another for the worker . in this motion , the Conservatives have squarely and unashamedly set themselves against work people , especially work woman , but the british people make a choice on 4 July : they vote for a party that would stand up for work people and keep its promise to outlaw sexual harassment at work and end exploitative zero - hour contract . that be why Labour will vigorously and vociferously vote down the Conservatives ' attempt to stop those change today . I call Mike Martin . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ hon . member : " how do you follow that ? ] it will be hard — probably with a low level of energy . I recently meet with Peter , Kate and Edward , who run the two Basil caf é s in Tunbridge Wells ; there be four across Kent . they be a family business — the subject of today ' s motion . [ interruption . ] after the damage Conservative Members do to the economy when they be in government , they need to pipe down . the family tell I that the combination of the minimum wage and national insurance rise and business rate have they on their knee . the only thing they can do and the only option they have , bear in mind that they be a family business — their staff be also their friend , and these be hub in our community — be to lay off staff or , in some case , not to grow their employment in the way that they have plan . zoom out a little , about a month ago I meet with the Tunbridge Wells hospitality rep . they be the owner of pub , restaurant , hotel and bar in Tunbridge Wells , which be all small business — most of they be family business . as we go around the table , it be the same story from they . the combination of all three measure , come at the same time , mean that they be either look at lay off staff now or delay plan for future employment . I thank my hon . friend for give way , and for the excellent way in which he be set out the problem face by many family business in Tunbridge Wells . in Mid Sussex , I recently speak to the owner of Frank ' s Diner on Church Road in Burgess Hill , who say exactly what my hon . friend have say : they be find this combination of different move punishingly hard , and be worried that they be go to have to close their business if thing do not improve soon and the Government do not think again . do he agree that the Government really do need to think again , and think hard , about the impact that their decision be have on small family business ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . this be not hyperbole ; these be real story from real business , from people who stay up at night try to juggle profit and loss , or look at how they be go to pay their national insurance contribution or their business rate at the end of the month . we do not have much time , so I want to zoom out a little bit and make a couple of point , follow by an ask of the Minister . for many of we , our first job be in hospitality . my first job be as a dishwasher in a hotel when I be 16 , and the question be whether a business would employ I now with these law , or whether they would invest in equipment that could automate that dishwashe to a point at which they do not need to employ so many 16 - year - old . I come from a relatively privileged background , but work in a hotel as a dishwasher , or work as a gardener or a labourer — all the other thing that I do when I be young — be incredibly important experience in form I into the person I be now . we want business to be able to employ people in their first job , because we only ever have one first boss . my second societal point be that hospitality , in particular , sit in the ecosystem of our town centre . it be hospitality , retail and leisure — one of those thing will bring people into a town centre , and then they will often go and visit another business from one of the other three corner of that triangle . as have be mention by member on both side of the House , hospitality in particular act as a glue in our society , and one of the thing I have notice since be elect last July be how atomised our society be and how many people struggle with a sense of belong , particularly after the pandemic . we be look for community to belong to , and hospitality provide some of the glue that hold we together , whether that be have a pint , meet your mate for some chip , or whatever else . if our society be glue together well , all sort of other thing , such as antisocial behaviour , crime and health — social connection improve our health — get well , which of course cost the Government less money on other budgetary line . as such , I would like to ask the Minister just one thing . the Budget increase business rate , and I know that the Chancellor be not go to go back on the national insurance rise or the minimum wage . on business rate , though , the Government have indicate that a consultation be currently ongoing , and they be ask people to contribute to it . I ask that we do not just look at this issue in the context of a spreadsheet , as the Treasury often do . that be important — we must support those business financially — but we also have to understand that retail , hospitality and leisure in our town centre contribute to the glue that hold our society together . when we reform business rate , we must consider that as well . it be a pleasure to follow some measured and passionate speech from across the House on this important subject . as member will know , I be very proud to represent England ' s large constituency by geographic area , and an area that be find to be one of the happy in the country , with one of the good sense of community and belong . over the recent recess , I be able to host a roundtable with the conductor of the " Belonging Barometer " , which be attend by many local business and community organisation . as have just be say , family business be the glue that bind together many of the strand of our community , particularly across the Tyne valley . in the aftermath of storm É owyn , we have see hearten example of family - run business in particular come out , help their community , provide those place to stay and to recuperate for community that have take a battering from extreme weather event that be sadly become all too common . I be disappoint to read the opposition motion . once again , we be here discuss a kind of hodgepodge of various gripe and groan that the Conservatives have with Government policy . that be absolutely fine , and it be their right so to do — there be member sit on the Tory Benches now who I genuinely respect and , in some case , admire — but they be well than that , and they should be well than that . [ laughter . ] they can laugh if they want , although I know that some of they have considerable experience in write manifesto that perhaps do not play out so well . ultimately , we need to achieve an environment in which family business and small business across the country and across our constituency be genuinely support by Government . one of the thing that have come to my attention since be elect as the first non - Conservative MP for Hexham in a century be that a lot of business have say to I , " it be nice to have an MP who be really connect to the constituency — one who be not complacent . " that compare with some of the treatment that rural community have receive from the conservative party in year past . we have mp who be genuinely rooted in their community , who go to school in those community and who get their first job in local business . they can speak to business in their constituency and deliver message down here . I have have conversation with business such as Brocksbushes farm shop , which do involve some patient disagreement over the Budget , but mainly involve real concern over local infrastructure , such as the lack of bus stop on the A69 and the difficulty that the young people it employ have in get to the business to work . the farm shop do a fantastic job . my now fianc é e and I go pumpkin - pick there just after the election . it be a wonderful event , although I think Hana probably enjoy it more than I do . ultimately , from have those positive conversation and look at what business need , we can see that it be infrastructure and investment . they need a government who listen , not one who embark on some kind of haywire , high - minded ideological crusade , as the Opposition do when in government . [ laughter . ] they can laugh . do my hon . friend agree that one of the other major challenge that small food business face be import and export ingredient ? that need to be a focus for the review of the trade and co - operation agreement next year . my hon . friend be far more well read and well research than I could ever hope to be , but those barrier to import and export come up whenever I speak to farmer and food business . get the product make by fantastic business in our community out to consumer be simply not as easy as it use to be . the main concern that I hear in my constituency be about infrastructure , bus route and a lack of road that be navigable , in some case . I go out to visit the village of Newton — it have not so much a pothole , but more of a small gorge that have be carve into the road — to hear update on the parish council ' s continue missive to the county council . that be the kind of thing that hold back small and family business in my constituency , because they simply do not know whether the delivery driver will be able to get to their premise or they will be able to get to work . that be what be cause real uncertainty and real harm to business . I urge Opposition Members to get a grip of their party and to object to some of the more terminally online thing , such as this conspiracy theory over the pint . it be , as I have say , beneath they . Britain ' s get talent ! right across this great land we have many clever people innovate and work hard . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , I have be in place as far apart as Exeter and Glasgow , talk with people who make everything from satellite to sausage roll . the mood , however , be not good . the striver be still strive , strain every sinew to deliver success , but confidence be not so much on the floor as deep in the cellar below . in my constituency I speak to a family firm of baker who have modest expansion plan — two or three extra staff draw from the rank of youngster who might struggle to find that all - important first job . those plan be park ; those youngster , for all I know , be on the dole . similarly , the Usual Place , a charity in Dumfries that provide wonderful opportunity for youngster in catering , be make cutback . six people will lose their job as the reality of the anti - business agenda — design in no . 11 Downing Street — bite . when we , in government , propose raise national insurance to fund the NHS , one labour Back Bencher denounce it as the " bad possible tax rise " . now that same politician be Chancellor , and the tune have change . and spare we the claim that Labour ' s manifesto pledge on national insurance cover only that pay directly by employee , which be sophistry — sheer sophistry . we lack not for start - up in Britain , but we struggle for scale - up — the firm that expand and grow . family business be often among the front rank of successful scale - up , as their multi - generational nature and the investment , literal and metaphorical , of senior figure imbue stability . the Prime Minister talk a good game , but talk be cheap , and his action have expensive consequence . he say that he and his Chancellor have make it clear to Cabinet colleague that in each of their brief " growth be the number one mission " . well , the Deputy Prime Minister do not hear — perhaps her rave music be too loud — for how be growth compatible with her Employment Rights Bill , which the Government ' s own analysis say will cost business up to £ 5 billion a year . that be £ 5 billion , when grandparent be in tear as family farm face be split up ; £ 5 billion , when family who have be in business for decade look at their bottom line and despair ? the bad aspect of that Bill be the premise that all trade union organiser be saint and all business owner be robber baron intent on exploit the worker . [ interruption . ] the union be restive . the Secretary of State for Scotland would not attend a reception in his own magnificent Dover House because of a picket line — and how ironic that the meeting be with the Scottish CBI . now those same striker have force the cancellation of a Scotland Office event with National Air Traffic Services . I have say it before , and I make no apology for say it again : " union go to party like it ' s 1979 . " Labour Members see business as a dripping roast to be devour , tax to a standstill , and not much mischief if it fail . they perceive a nobility in the public sector when they see only avarice in the private sector , but they be as wrong about that as they be about profit be a dirty word . the driver of growth be in the private sector . they deserve our admiration and , more important , our support . what can the Government do for they ? how about get out of the way ? how about less legislation , not more ? how about less petty regulation , and more can - do attitude ? how about lighten the tax load , not add to it ? labour need to step away from its anti - business policy so that firm in every part of the country can step up with wealth creation , with the private sector lead the charge . the economy that this Labour Government inherit be a total mess . we have a Conservative Government who , for so long , ignore the problem that be build up . instead of look for the solution , they obfuscate and kick problem into the long grass . when they do make decision — such as Liz Truss ' s mini - budget — they lead to catastrophic outcome for our economy , many of which our constituent be still pay off in their mortgage , today and for some time to come . whether it be for a fail Rwanda scheme or for dodgy covid contract , the Conservatives waste money by make bad decision , and the public pay the price . inevitably , inherit an economy in such a perilous state mean that there be difficult decision to make : decision that could not have be anticipate until the true extent of the previous Government ' s economic incompetence have be expose in the summer of last year . what the Budget do last autumn be set out clearly our path to recovery , fix the foundation , focus on growth and ensure that we be give our economy the stability , the investment and the reform that be require to get we away from the doom loop of the Tories and back to growth . yes , there have be tough choice . we on the Labour Benches do not shy away from that . however , these choice mean that we can invest in our public service , include our NHS , drive down waiting list . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not . the UK Government have prioritise investment in Wales ' s future . the result of last year ' s Budget be the large funding boost that Wales have receive since devolution — £ 21 billion of new money — and people in Wales will see the benefit through the Barnett formula , but also through direct spending . the Budget provide a record £ 1 . 7 billion spending boost for the Welsh Government to support public service such as our NHS . the investment in our public service mean more neighbourhood policing , which again be something our constituent and our local business community desperately want . More funding will be available to support the delivery of 13 , 000 more police officer , police community support officer and special constable in our community , keep our street safe and protect small retail business from the shoplifting that be allow to run rife under the previous Government ' s £ 200 rule . this be what my constituent want , and they want a Government on their side . the opposition be more than happy to take all the benefit that this additional investment will provide , but I politely suggest that , by not outline how they will pay for it all , their position lack real credibility . I note that the Shadow Cabinet have already rack up about £ 7 billion in unfunded spending commitment , which again be not serious enough . I be hearten that the Government be take concrete step to protect the small business and charity . the employment allowance will double to £ 10 , 500 , mean that some 250 , 000 employer will gain , and an additional 820 , 000 will see no change at all . I know that organisation such as the Federation of Small Businesses have welcome these change , as do the many small business in Clwyd East that gain from the uplift in the employment allowance . in north Wales , we have already see the benefit of two government work together , in Wales and at Westminster , with both be utterly focus on investment and growth . we have already see investment in Airbus , Kellogg ' s , Shotton Mill and more in our little corner of north Wales , with the same business confidence as be exemplify by the £ 63 billion raise at this Government ' s investment summit . green job will be critical in north Wales ' s future . last week , the port of Mostyn in my constituency pave the way for some 300 new job help support the offshore wind industry . when I go out to speak to business in my constituency — family business such as Jones Brothers and Clawdd Offa Farm — they simply do not make representation like those we have hear from the opposition . they share the Government ' s passion on the skill agenda and apprenticeship , reform our restrictive planning regime and the need for investment in our NHS , which this Government be already prioritise . this government be continue to promote entrepreneurship , attract billion of pound of investment and provide the certainty that our business need , not least as part of the Flintshire and Wrexham investment zone . business in Clwyd East deserve well than the faux outrage from the Conservatives , and this Government will not allow they to pretend to be the champion of british business , rather than the Conservative Government who sell our farmer down the river through detrimental trade deal , and the Conservative Government who run down our economy with Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget , short - term thinking and decimate business confidence . it be the Labour Government who be commit to provide our economy with the stability and investment it need to grow , lay the foundation for thrive business at the heart of prosperous community . I be pleased the opposition be use our time today to debate the importance of business large and small . it be the private sector that create the wealth on which our society depend , and it be the taxis business pay that fund our NHS and other important public service . the policy of this Labour Government , from raise taxis to impose additional regulation , be put those business at risk . have promise during the general election not to increase nic , the Chancellor immediately break that promise in the Budget . this national insurance hike will cost employer £ 900 for every employee earn the average salary . the tax rise disproportionately affect employee on low wage . someone earn £ 9 , 000 a year will cost their employer an extra £ 600 a year in tax . this be not just a tax on business ; it be a tax on job . Labour have introduce a £ 25 billion job tax that will increase the cost of hire worker . it have also increase business rate by £ 2 . 7 billion . under the Conservatives , business in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector receive a 75 % relief on their business rate ; Labour have reduce this relief to just 40 % . do my hon . friend agree that the reduction in hospitality rate relief and the low earning threshold , which he have just acknowledge , create a perfect storm for hospitality business — not just because of the additional rate pressure , but because they will be less incentivise to recruit part - time worker ? as have be acknowledge by other member , that be often a route for young people into their first employment opportunity . my hon . friend be right : all Labour ' s measure will increase unemployment . although Labour will say it have reduce the multipli of business rate , this do not fully compensate — it leave an average pub pay an additional £ 5 , 500 a year . this be not a sustainable burden for many business that be already struggle with inflation and rise cost . these taxis add up , and will lead to closure , job loss and harm to our community . another troubling decision from the Labour party be the reduction of the cap on business property relief . BPR , introduce in 1976 by Denis Healey , be design to protect family - own business from be break up and to ensure these business could continue to provide job and contribute to the economy across generation . it be extraordinary that Labour have find a Chancellor less sympathetic to business than Healey . this decision be a blow to those who have work tirelessly to build and sustain their business , and will force family to sell their business or take on crippling debt just to pay the taxman . for many , this will be the end of their family business . the Employment Rights Bill will require employer to spend £ 150 per employee on additional administrative cost to comply with new rule , include a ban on zero - hour contract and potential liability for third - party harassment . at a time when business be already under strain , this be a further unnecessary cost , especially for small business that do not have the resource to navigate the red tape . have spend 11 week go through the Employment Rights Bill line by line , I know just how damaging it will be to sme in Bridgwater and elsewhere . let we take just one example : the so - call day one right . these right would mean that if , after less than a week , it become apparent that a new employee be the wrong fit for a company , a complicated process would have to be follow to dismiss they . speak as a former — though fully qualified — solicitor , I know that this will have a disproportionate effect on small business without an hr department . if they do not dot all the I ' s and cross all the t ' s , they will be leave expose to be take to court for unfair dismissal . I understand the point the hon . Gentleman be make , but be it not the case that in that specific circumstance , after a week , they would be cover by the new probationary period provision ? this provision be write probationary period into the law for the first time . the hon . Gentleman would be correct if , in fact , there be a write contract that include a probationary period . what he forget , however , be that many small business will conclude that contract on a handshake and a verbal agreement — there will not be a formal probationary period . it be exactly those small business that do not use a write contract that will be liable to legal action . let we take another example . should a business fail to notify a new employee of their right to join a trade union in writing , it may be liable to pay an additional four week ' pay as a compensatory award . in what world be this system really go to work ? do we believe that those run a corner shop , pub or fishmonger be go to give their employee write notice that they have the right to join a trade union ? no , they will not — and legal consequence will follow . we on the conservative Benches believe that business be at the heart of the economy and that they should not be punish by Government policy that stifle growth and investment . it be important to note that , when it come to business , this Government ' s track record be deeply troubling . just one member of the Cabinet have ever start a business . when decision be make by those who do not understand the pressure face by small business owner , it be no surprise that the policy be so harmful . the Labour Government that we face be not a new Labour Government in the Tony Blair model . it be very much an old Labour Government of the 1970 , addict to tax , spending , borrowing and regulating . I regret to say that we will see unemployment rise . we will support family business , safeguard job and ensure that the british economy prosper . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . as a qualified charter accountant , I spend the good part of a decade in my family business . [ interruption . ] I be a fully qualified charter accountant with a certificate to match . my family business , which be set up by my father , be a firm of accountant . I wish to reflect on some of the remark make by those on the Government Benches . I do so with a degree of sadness and anger , which be reflect in what be say by the business in my constituency as well as by many family business across the country . we should be in no doubt that the Chancellor ' s Budget have be deeply , deeply damaging . my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) put it correctly when , in his intervention on the shadow Chancellor , he say that the Budget be a toxic concoction of measure , which mean that now , for the first time , many people will be wonder whether it be even worth set up in business . the decision that we take in this House matter , because they result in cost . business , and family business in particular , be not just some opaque term ; they involve individual with hope , dream and aspiration . the political choice and decision that the Chancellor have make and that Labour Members our now defend will incur cost for business , which will then be pass on to consumer and client . ultimately , they will feed into the cost of service and therefore the cost of living . when we see the inflation rate increase from 2 % , which it be when we leave Government , to 3 % now there will of course be consequence , especially give the decision that the Chancellor be make . I understand that Labour Members may not want to accept that today , but they may well want to reflect on that . the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) talk about our motion — I note that he do not name the Tory Members that he respect , and I hope that he do at some point — and I have to tell he that these be not thing that we make up ; they be thing that business be tell we . this be what they be talk about every day . [ interruption . ] I be more than happy to give some example . the other day , I speak to a family - run business , which be over 160 year ' old and have a subsidiary in my constituency . it have a £ 400 million turnover . it be look to be a billion - pound turnover company by 2030 , which mean more job and more product for supply chain . they have have to put a hold on that because if the father of that business now pass away , the inheritance tax bill will come to about £ 2 million , and , as it be a family business and dividend will have to be find , it will have to find something like £ 18 million to fund that . the father say that it will probably have to sell about 7 % of the business to be able to finance an inheritance tax bill , which be incredibly difficult for it to prepare for . Eric Lyons , a butcher ' s shop in my constituency , be over 100 year old . Nick , who I shall be meet in the come week , say that it be a great family business , which serve many of my constituent . he be very vocal on LinkedIn . I will not repeat everything that he say — it be not all repeatable — but he talk about the rise in national insurance contribution and the impact that that will have on the cost of the product that he be sell . Rick Cressman from Nailcote Hall have a great hospitality business . what be happen to hospitality business be not reflect in the comment from Government Members . hospitality business across the board be up in arm because the reduction in rate relief and the reduction in the threshold of national insurance — not just the increase in national insurance — be have a huge impact . fundamentally , it mean that young people will not get their first job in hospitality . they be the one who suffer because they end up cost the most — not in term of their salary , because they will normally be on the national living wage , but in term of training cost and the time that be take . those be real consequence of the decision that the Chancellor be take . I feel a great amount of sadness when I hear member on the Labour Benches say that they listen but do not agree and talk about how great their business be do . I just do not believe they be talk to those business , because at least 99 % of the business that will be affect will not be happy about the change . when the Government come in , they have decision to make . if the fictitious black hole be to be believe , they could have fix the roof when the sun be shine . now , when we be face with a change global scene , with Ukraine where it be , Donald Trump do what he be do and Putin come to the fore , the Chancellor can not commit to not come back for more taxation . it be inevitable . since come into office last July , this Labour Government have launch an all - out attack on business in this country — an attack on 5 . 5 million sme that represent more than 99 % of our business population , and small business in my constituency , of which 88 % be agricultural land , be front and centre of that assault . not only be our farmer be hit by the cut to agricultural property relief and business property relief , but small business that sell their produce , such as Barnowl Farm Shop in Evenley and Towbury Court in Towcester , will also be hit by those taxis . my farmer do not deserve that . they have only ever work hard , day and night , generation after generation . small business on Brackley high street , such as Defern Beauty , have tell I that they might have to cut their highly successful apprenticeship programme , as the tax hike mean they can no long afford to keep apprentice on . this government be destroy small business and our high street . our local pub , of which there be more than 90 in my constituency , will also be hurt by the reduction in business rate relief for hospitality business — another punitive tax rise at a time when many of our local be really struggle . the Conservatives leave office with one of the low unemployment figure record in recent history , but after the Hallowe ' en Budget , we be see the number of vacancy fall and growth slow down . that be a result of the choice that this Government have make : a choice to give above - inflation pay rise to their union paymaster and a choice to target our farmer and destroy their life ' s work for 22 . 5 hour of NHS spending . that be not drive by a growth agenda but by a socialist ideology . it be also a choice to change business property relief and destroy our local pub . the Government be hike taxis , and it be the work people across this country — the work people they promise to protect — who will pay the ultimate price . labour be not work . today ' s debate on the disastrous impact of the Labour Government ' s policy , include on my constituency of Farnham and Bordon , of which Haslemere , Liphook and the surround village be part , be timely . my inbox be fill with complaint and concern from small family business about that impact . small and family business be not just place to shop or to buy thing , but the backbone of our economy and the lifeblood of our community . across the United Kingdom , they provide almost 14 million job and contribute an amazing £ 575 billion to our economy . yet under this Labour Government , those business be under siege . labour simply do not understand business and see business as nothing more than a cash cow to fund its endless state expansion . for nearly a century , my grandparent and my great - grandparent before they dedicate their life to Stafford ' s shop in Haslemere , and they would be horrify to see this Government ' s full - scale assault on family business . the family business tax — labour ' s reckless cap on business property relief — will decimate family - run enterprise , break they apart when they should be pass down to the next generation . in the Surrey side of my constituency , we be fortunate to have two thrive market town , Farnham and Haslemere , which be hub of entrepreneurialism and independent enterprise . business such as Hamilton ' s Tea Room , Borelli ' s Wine Bar , Farnham Homes , Kilnside Farm shop and Elphicks , one of the last remain british family - own department store , have be the cornerstone of our high street for generation . similarly , Haslemere be home to r . Miles & Son , Good Horse saddlery and Davids menswear . together , these eight business have have a presence on our high street for a total of 439 year . give that Family Business UK have warn that these policy would cost 125 , 000 job , will the Government reconsider their stance before it be too late ? meanwhile , on the East Hampshire side of my constituency , Liphook Travel Worldchoice have be a family - run travel agency since 1971 and Hogmoor Distillery , though newer , be an outstanding artisan gin and liqueur company base in the heart of the former military town of Bordon . those business , like so many across the country , be already be squeeze by Labour ' s misguided economic policy , with increase business rate and tax burden make it hard to survive . although Labour misunderstand business , it actively despise the countryside . this Government be rurally illiterate . they do not care about rural job , rural business or our rural community . the family farm tax — labour ' s assault on agricultural property relief — be a direct attack on farming family who have work the land for generation . Bob and Ros Milton of Kilnside farm expand their business with a farm shop under the support of the previous Government , but it now face closure due to rise cost . similarly , Mathias nursery have hope to pass the business to the next generation , but now fear that that will be impossible . my campaign for local pub and heritage club have see I do a pub crawl across the constituency . I have visit 17 of the 56 pub — everything must be do in moderation . I have have invaluable conversation with landlord . Carl from the Nelson Arms pub in Farnham highlight the importance of zero - hour contract for his employee , include a staff member who also work as a paramedic and rely on the flexibility that these contract offer . yet labour ' s Employment Rights Bill , which ban they , will impose a £ 150 cost on his business . will the hon . member acknowledge that what the Bill actually say be that no one should be force on to a zero - hour contract ? it be not the case that someone who want that flexibility will be deny it . I understand that the hon . Member have go through the Bill line by line , but the business that be report to I , and apparently also speak to he , be seriously concerned . in our village , include Churt , Tilford , Passfield and Headley Down , the village shop and the pub be the heart and soul of our tight - knit community , but labour be simply make it hard for they to survive . why be the Government , who be supposedly focus on growth , cause business in my constituency to downsize , sell up and move out ? these policy be not just misguided ; they be ideological . labour ' s hatred of business and contempt for the countryside be now enshrine in policy . since their election , the Government have accept £ 5 . 6 million in donation from trade union . it be no wonder that their policy prioritise union interest over business interest . the Business Secretary apparently meet trade union every three day in his first three month in charge . where be the same access for small business ? conservative believe that business be the engine of growth . to grow our economy , we must create job , drive innovation and foster prosperity . that be why we be call for the reversal of Labour ' s family farm tax , crippling job tax and the reduction in business rate relief . when will the Government acknowledge that their policy be drive up the cost of living , not reduce it ? while this Labour Government continue their war on business and the countryside , I shall finish by extend my deep thank to the incredible business across Farnham , Haslemere , Liphook and Bordon that truly be at the heart of our community ' s social and economic fabric . the conservative party will always stand up for family business , farmer and our rural community , to ensure that they can thrive , create job and , importantly , pass on their legacy to future generation . as we all know , family business be the very backbone of our local economy . they be the job creator , the innovator and the entrepreneur — those that drive the local economy and be at the heart of all our community . they employ 14 million people and contribute £ 585 billion to the economy . rightly , the opposition be very concerned about last October ' s Budget . as the shadow farming Minister , I have hear much noise that have be rightly make about the implication of the family farm tax , but I want to use the opportunity of this debate to focus specifically on the implication of business property relief . early , I hear the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury at the Dispatch Box talk about the mechanism by which the Government have calculate the impact that business property relief will have . I specifically question how he , and indeed the Treasury , arrive at those decision . I note that that Minister be not even here to listen to the point I want to make , so I hope that the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , will specifically address they . the Treasury have calculate that the agricultural property relief and business property relief change will bring in about £ 500 million , yet despite the challenge that I and other have raise with Ministers and the Treasury , no economic impact assessment have be provide as a result of those change . I want to understand whether any specific detail have be look at for business property relief and the wide implication that it will have on too many of our family business . only last week , I meet Richard Prudhoe , who run Fibreline and employ 250 people in Keighley . he have comment that the negative implication of business property relief on his business , which be completely own by he and his family , will be catastrophic . if something happen to he , the dire consequence of tax that will be implement on his wide family will be catastrophic , potentially put at risk 250 people employ in Keighley . do the hon . Member agree that it would be helpful if the Minister , in his closing remark , give assurance that the Government be willing to meet Family Business UK , which be conduct its own survey of the impact of APR and BPR change on business ? I absolutely wish that the Government would listen to the many concern that be consistently raise by Family Business UK , which be do an excellent job in the amount of datum it seem to be provide to the Treasury , yet nobody in the Treasury seem to be listen . indeed , just last week the Chancellor do not even have the courtesy to turn up to listen to many of our farming organisation . she be not even give wide family business stakeholder the courtesy of listen to they . the point be that the associated implication of business property relief will have dire consequence for business that be want to invest and employ local people . they be now have to face the same challenge as wide farming business of how to pay a potential IHT liability come down the line . they could look at dispose of a shareholding in their business , but many of they do not want to do that — why would they want to sell out to a large corporate ? — as they want to keep their family business in the wide family , or they could sell plant and machinery , which negatively impact the productivity of their business . the Treasury be not look at that . those business be say to I , " what be the point ? why would I want to invest not only my time but my energy in grow that business if there will be negative implication on the wide family structure and the wide people we be employ within that business ? " this Budget be hostile to our family business and will have a hugely detrimental impact on they . Family Business UK have already say that the datum it have present to the Government show that these change will likely result in a gross value add loss of £ 9 . 4 billion and the potential loss of 125 , 000 full - time equivalent job during the period from April 2026 to April 2030 alone . do my hon . friend agree that what we be discuss demonstrate quite a perverse contradiction , in that the sum be huge for the business involve — as he describe , they be catastrophic — but the overall net receipt to the Exchequer in the grand scheme of the Government Budget be so small , and that that be further testament to the Government ' s lack of economic and political nous ? absolutely . my hon . friend make the excellent point that the likely revenue — albeit I challenge the Treasury ' s figure — be only £ 500 million , yet the impact that it will have on many of our family business be catastrophic . that include those in the hospitality sector , and manufacturing , engineering and tech - base business in my constituency . ultimately , the Government need to listen to the concern be raise about business property relief , because it will undermine the stability and growth of the many family business own by our constituent . the Government need to rethink the policy and axe it , which be what we be call for . the Conservatives have be very clear that not only will we reverse the change to agricultural property relief , but we will put back 100 % business property relief , provide certainty for many family business . many other challenge have be bring about by the Budget . the increase in employer national insurance be impact many family business , not least Hi Energy , a gym in Keighley in my constituency , which openly tell I it have calculate that its employer national insurance bill , couple with the challenge of its business rate bill , which be likely to increase down the line , will have catastrophic consequence . its overhead will increase , but it will not be able to increase its gym membership fee while keep the business competitive among the many other gym organisation across Keighley . the same narrative be reiterate by all our family business . for family business , the Budget be yet another instance of the Labour Government say one thing but do another . they claim to be pro - growth , yet they directly tax employment . they claim to be pro - business , but they tax wealth creator and family firm . growth can not be magicke up out of thin air , as the Government stipulate . the conservative party be on the side of family business and I be pleased to support the motion today . the director of Family Business UK , Steve Rigby , have say that the single most important issue for the family business he represent be the retention of business property relief . that have come through loud and clear to I in recent week when I have be speak to local business , both individually and collectively through organisation such as the Cairngorms Business Partnership and the local chamber of commerce . other family business , which have never come together before and do not usually lobby their mp , have come together too . they normally just get on with be hard - work and productive family business , but they have come together to lobby because they be so concerned about the impact of BPR . to give a flavour of the family business in my constituency , we have some of the most iconic family business in the UK . many will know Baxters from its food product , and Walker ' s Shortbread food product can be find in pretty much every airport in the world . Glenfiddich , own by William Grant & Sons , be another family business , and johnston of Elgin produce some of the fine cashmere product in the world . in Scotland as a whole , it alone employ 1 , 000 people . those business be not small fry . they put huge amount of money and investment into those business every single year . I meet a group of business owner last week who collectively represent 2 , 500 year of business ownership . they have a phenomenal story to tell . what be incredible about they be the stewardship of those business . they invest their time and energy . family member get train up and work in all aspect of the business , ready to take on the mantle of run it when it come to they later in life . if the business be a limited liability partnership and you get rid of the business management of the business , it would not have any kind of inheritance tax to pay . yet the only choice for family business operate on that scale , give the likely tax bill they will be hit with , be to either put away million of pound to cover the tax bill , which mean they be not invest , or sell off large part of the business . for manufacturing business , there be a very big chance that they will end up abroad rather than in the UK . they could be buy by a multinational or a conglomerate and the job would just be ship abroad . that be not the way to grow the economy . I be okay with the first couple of bit of the official Opposition ' s motion , but they would have be well to have a laser - like focus on inheritance tax and national insurance contribution . their inclusion of try to stop a worker ' right Bill be frankly ridiculous , and as for add in the beer measure , it seem as though somebody must have be on a heady brew to come up with that notion . those thing make the motion unsupportable , but I hope the Minister be listen to what I have say about those aspect of the motion that I do support and have concern about . in Scotland , business be also battle with the business rate relief not be pass on in full by the SNP Scottish Government . will the Member be put pressure on his party in Scotland to pass on those relief in full , to help family business and business across our high street in Scotland ? I hear what the hon . Member be say . there be a number of relief in Scotland , and Scotland go far and quick than the Conservatives do in government when it come to the small business bonus scheme that be in place , so I be not go to take any lesson about what we do with business rate . it be a different system ; there be other thing go on that make the mix different . also , that be not the issue that business be raise with I . the first and foremost issue , as have be indicate by Family Business UK , be inheritance tax . that be what be cause the most consternation . the business that I meet last week be say that their financial adviser — or their finance director , if they be big enough to have they — be already advise they to set aside substantial amount of money to cover off risk . these be business that have never have to value themselves in their life . they be family business that work on a model of work with what they have and get on with it . they have never have to place an inheritance value on their business . that be yet another headache for they — another bureaucratic maze for they to work their way through — that do not apply to LLPs , which be a very unfair situation . I do not understand why a Labour Government in particular be tackle family - own business in this way and allow shareholder - own business or llp off the hook . that do not make sense to I . the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) speak very well and , have her amendment be select , I would certainly have go for it . I be sorry that I can not , but — order . I call Mike Wood . it be an honour to rise today to speak on behalf of the very many family business in Kingswinford and South Staffordshire , because family business be at the heart of our local community as well as at the heart of our local economy . they provide employment for nearly 14 million people , they contribute £ 575 billion to the economy and they be found on solid principle of entrepreneurism and self - responsibility . I be proud to represent so many fantastic family business , range from heavy engineering firm in the Black Country to vineyard in Pattingham and Halfpenny Green . they work tirelessly to build and sustain their business , create job and prosperity . they offer excellent product and service to customer near and far , and they look forward to their child one day continue in their footstep . but their job be be make much hard by labour ' s family business tax , a barrage of burdensome red tape , a trade union charter , a family business surcharge and the national insurance job tax , which together mean that business will pay more in tax and compliance rather than in growth or job . as have be say , the cumulative impact of all these measure be very damaging . I be not go to pretend that most of the family business I speak to are absolutely delighted by the increase in the national living wage any more than they be delighted the previous year when the last Government increase it by a high amount , but they recognise that wage increase for their staff be the right thing to do . however , they do have a problem when those additional wage cost be compound by payroll taxis in the form of increase national insurance contribution , which hit those sector that rely on part - time worker particularly hard — they suddenly face enormous increase . that be compound far by business rate rise for those in retail and hospitality , who be suddenly find their business rate bill nearly double in April compare with what they have pay for the last few year . also come in in April be that flurry of additional regulation . if family business somehow survive all that and thrive and develop , they will find that they can no long expect to be able to leave the business intact for future generation of their family to run . the Confederation of British Industry and Family Business UK have warn that Labour ' s change to business property relief could lead to 125 , 000 job loss and reduce economic output by £ 9 . 4 billion . business that have survive economic downturn , global recession , war on our continent and a worldwide pandemic now face the prospect of be bring to their knee by a tax policy that will force they to break up their business when the current owner pass away . this be not just a policy change ; it be an existential threat . the Black Country be a region with a proud history of manufacturing and enterprise . we have always be a place of hard work , innovation and community . in South Staffordshire my constituent be proud of their thriving rural economy build on countless family business . those business have not just contribute to our local economy ; they have help to build the United Kingdom , and the idea that a tax change could strip away the future of our local business be nothing short of a tragedy . Fairness would be recognise that family business be not just economic unit but part of the fabric of our community . they support local charity , provide apprenticeship and create job for those who need they . if these proposal go forward , we risk lose those business and with they the local job they provide . I have speak with many family business in my constituency . family - own business that have be operate in the community for generation be fearful and uncertain , and be already have to make decision about their business and their employee because of the Chancellor ' s damage Budget . sadly , some be be force out of business because of these measure . the Government ' s blinker view that see business as little more than a source of revenue to offset their spending plan be wrong . I urge the Government to listen to the concern of the family firm in Kingswinford and South Staffordshire and across the country who will be directly impact by the change . these proposal must be scrap . I be proud to represent a constituency with so many fantastic small business , and employer in Broxbourne be more likely to be small business than under the national average . entrepreneur in the town and village I represent be work hard and take risk day in , day out , grow our local economy and create job . early this month , I be tell by a Government Minister stand at the Dispatch Box that I be " sort of right " that private business create growth . let I gently tell the Government that it be not the Government who create economic growth in this country ; it be the thousand of business owner outside of this place who work hard day in , day out , create job right across the country , invest in their company and invest in their supply chain . we have hear good speech in this debate from member on my side of the Chamber explain how it be business that create economic growth , not Government . a Labour Member allude to the £ 25 billion national insurance increase and £ 5 billion employment regulation not matter to family business , because they be small and do not employ many people . that be no way to treat family business in this country . we should be tell they that the sky be the limit . we should be say , " invest in and grow your business , and we will help and support you . we will create the right environment for you to take those risk , " because it be a massive risk when people put their life saving and their blood , sweat and tear into a business that they want to grow , particularly when it be from their home . they be take an incredibly risk in say , " do you know what ? I ' m go to take that jump . I ' m go to make an offer to someone and employ my first employee . " we should be create the environment for people to be able to do that . the more family business we have , and the more family business that upskill , create local job and invest in their business , the more money the Treasury get to spend on our public service . we should not be hamper business . the Minister be make a ludicrous point . my hon . friend make a powerful point . have listen to most of the debate , I make the ally point that while Labour member have justify the need to raise taxis — which , like he , I entirely disagree with — we have hear not a single word from they about the impact of tax rise on family farm , family business and employer . my hon . friend make an important point . I go out and speak to farmer and small business owner , as he do in his constituency , and I have meet not one who think the Government be on the right path . I do not know who Labour Members speak to in their constituency because — trade union . what my hon . Friend say from a sedentary position be probably correct . business and farmer in my constituency think that the Government have sell they down the river and lead they up the garden path — they be do thing that they do not think they would do when they be try to get into power . we have not hear from the Government what they be do to support business and family business . the hon . member speak with great passion about his constituency , and I understand some of the concern he have raise . he ask what the Government be do . apart from all the money we be put into the NHS and all the money go into education , what be we do ? he early give the example of a single person run a business about to employ their first person , which be a big step for any business — I accept that . but be it not the case that those small business will be pay less national insurance as a result of this Budget ? business in my constituency be put off investing and employ local people because of the job tax and the Government ' s propose new regulation . I hope that when the Minister wind up , he will say what the Government will do to create the next generation of entrepreneur . we could turbocharge the education system . there be lot of fantastic teacher in my constituency and across the country who do a sterling job for young people . we could say to people who have create business , " we will give you some money off your tax bill if you go back to your secondary school and teach not from a textbook , but from real life experience about how to create growth , job and business and enthuse those student about create their own business . " People do not have to go to a math class to understand math . someone who have run a business could come in and say , " right , we ' ve get to do your account now . you ' ve get to see how much you be go to pay people and how much tax you will pay . " we could get people in from the creative industry . they could say , " right , now you have to design your logo . how be you go to do that ? you ' ve get to design a tv advertisement for your product , for what you be go to sell . " we could be do that . we could be think outside the box . I have not hear what support the Government be give to create the next generation of entrepreneur . if we do not unlock their aspiration and continue to allow people to take risk and invest in their idea , there will be no taxis come in or money for public service . we must do this , and we must do it more regularly . I hope the Minister will tell the House how he will unlock the next generation of entrepreneur and how we will support people to take what be , as I say , a massive risk . do the hon . Gentleman agree that if the next generation of young people can not get to work because of broken public transport , pothole or illness , it will ultimately hold they back ? we be take step to fix those problem . the hon . Gentleman ' s party be actually cut the capital budget for transport . I have make this point time and again , but the Government could take on the utility company that endlessly dig up the road so that my constituent and many other across the country have to sit in traffic . that cost the taxpayer and the economy billion of pound . if we get people to the shop and to work quick , and trader , electrician and builder get to their site quick so that they can do their job , that will unlock growth , put more pound in their pocket to spend on local high street , which we need to protect , and enable they to take risk and employ people . but I have not hear that from the government — I have not hear that we will take on the utility company ; I have not hear that we will unlock the aspiration of this country ' s next generation through the education system . Labour Members say in their manifesto and during the election campaign that they be the party of economic growth . I gently say to they that that be not work because fundamentally they do not understand that it be private business and our hard - work constituent in family business who create economic growth — not this disastrous Labour Government . small and medium - sized business account for 99 . 3 % of all business in Wales . it be not simply their economic value that we measure , but the social and cultural value they create in our community . those business employ local people , keep wealth in their area , and be a crucial part of a thriving community . small business have be under enormous pressure for several year . the Chancellor ' s decision to increase employer national insurance contribution have place huge financial strain on small business — a damaging decision that will cost job . the cut to business property relief will also damage local business in Ynys M ô n . Lewis Forecourts , a family - run business on the island for over 40 year , say that the change will have huge implication for its business . as a key employer , it will be restrict in job creation and growth . in a letter to the Prime Minister , it note that that will mean less investment in infrastructure at their site . the Brexit deal pursue by the UK be particularly damaging for Welsh business . Wales be more reliant on trade with Europe : 58 . 6 % of total good export from Wales go to the EU , compare with 50 . 3 % for the UK as a whole . the Government must start remove those damaging trade barrier , a simple step that would help struggle small business . as if that be not enough pressure , the Welsh Labour Government continue to charge high business rate than anywhere else in Great Britain . the recent closure of Holyhead port for nearly six week have a significant impact on many small family business in Holyhead and Ynys M ô n . footfall in the town be down 40 % to 60 % , and business tell I that that be have a direct impact on their sustainability . it will clearly take time for Holyhead and the surround area to recover from storm Darragh . the UK Government must recognise the huge long - term impact of the closure of the port on business and the economy in Ynys M ô n , and I call on they yet again to establish a hardship fund to support business directly affect by the closure of the port . we have wonderful business on the island . last week , I visit Mr Holt ' s chocolate factory in Llangefni , which make magical and delicious Welsh chocolate with a colourful packaging . Mr Holt be give a boost both to the local economy and to our rich culture . Finney ' s , from Benllech , be today compete in the national fish and chip award final , and I wish it the good of luck . there be so many hard - work family business on Ynys M ô n , but after year of neglect in Government policy , many be question their future . I fear that the Government be prioritise large corporation over the small family business that be the backbone of the Ynys M ô n economy . if the Government want growth , they must change track and prioritise our hard - work small and local family business . like many conservative Members who have start a small business , I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it have be fascinating to listen to story about business from across the country during the debate . I be particularly move by my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) who talk about the pressure face a local gym . it make I feel well as I be contribute to my local gym by pay the membership fee and not use any of the facility . seven month ago , when Labour come to power , the new Government proclaim that economic growth be their first mission . for all the doom - mongering , Labour inherit an economy that have turn a corner , follow the pandemic and the energy crisis . the economy be grow , energy bill be fall , inflation be back on target and employment be high . however , in seven short month , economic growth have stall , the Bank of England have halve its growth forecast , the cost of living be rise again , with high inflation and energy bill , and unemployment be increase , as business brace for tax rise . Britain ' s economy be stutter because of this Government ' s fail policy : a family business tax to break up thriving enterprise , a job tax to make it more expensive for business to employ people , a business rate hike to squeeze the already struggle british high street and more employment red tape to tie business ' hand . but Labour be not content with cut job and closing business — it be give Ministers the power to shrink the great british pint . while they say they will never do it , who could trust a word this government say ? not pensioner , not work people and certainly not farmer . on an issue of such vital national importance , can we take that risk ? every employer I speak to in my constituency tell I that they have no choice but to cut job , wage and investment . that be true whether the employer be a nursery in Bromley Common , a large franchisee on Bromley High Street or a charity serve our borough . that be what an anti - business Government look like , not a pro - growth government . the policy be all the more bizarre as the Prime Minister once say : " wealth creation be our number one priority . " in reality , he do not know how to create wealth , only tax it . the Government be tax family farmer who will be force to sell off their land , family business that will be force to sell and high street business that will be force to close , take job so that work people face redundancy . it be not too late for Labour to spare family business . those business employ 14 million people and contribute £ 575 billion to the economy . labour ' s decision to cap and cut the business property relief risk break up long - run family business . instead of continue those business , the next generation will be force to sell . the Government ' s policy will not grow the economy , but hollow it out . Britain simply can not afford Labour ' s assault on our nation ' s economic future . this debate have be hold against the absurd backdrop of a Chancellor of the Exchequer write to Government colleague and beg regulator , desperately seek advice on how to find economic growth , while the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be deindustrialise the economy , the Home Office be welcome fiscally negative immigration and the Department for Business and Trade be add more than £ 5 billion a year in new cost to business in a single Act of Parliament . and the Government be whack up taxis , include through the change to business property relief , because they break their election promise as soon as they get into office . in its manifesto , Labour promise the country that by 2028 - 29 , it would increase spending by only £ 9 . 5 billion a year . it know all the fact at that point , as the Chancellor of the Exchequer tell the Financial Times , but just a few month later , Labour increase spending in the Budget by £ 76 billion a year , eight time more than promise in the manifesto . that be the reason for Labour ' s break tax promise , the high taxis and the extra borrowing , not the poor excuse offer by the Minister early . the hon . Gentleman make the point that public spending be increase fast than he expect . perhaps he could outline where he think it should now be cut to make that good , start with public service in his own constituency . the hon . Gentleman be a little confused . public spending be not increase fast than I expect ; it be increase fast than his party tell the country . that be the point . the Treasury might not be what it once be , but even if we believe what the Minister say about the fictional black hole , which the Office for Budget Responsibility have disown , £ 9 . 5 billion plus £ 22 billion do not reach even half of the £ 76 billion in extra labour spending . I be not sure whether the Minister be listen , but he can intervene if he want to explain himself at this point — he clearly be not . what do we get for these extra taxis ? the Home Office budget be be cut by 2 . 7 % in real term compare with last year . the Department for Transport budget be be cut by 2 . 5 % , and its capital budget be be cut by 3 . 1 % . that be economic illiteracy . this amount to taxsterity — tax rise and spending cut — to go with stagflation , or stagnation and inflation . that be Labour economic . to be fair to the Labour Government , they have see a surplus in self - assessment tax receipt , at £ 15 billion . the problem be that the OBR be expect that to be £ 21 billion . we therefore have the prospect of they try to find where we get that extra money from . the Government need to set out whether they be go to break their fiscal rule , cut public spending again , or increase taxis . do my hon . friend have any inclination on what they might choose , because I certainly have not hear anything ? base on Labour ' s track record , one would always bet on tax rise rather than fiscal responsibility . the bond market have take a single look at the Chancellor ' s fiscal plan and increase Britain ' s borrowing cost , which mean another Labour tax rise for all of we . not one word in the speech we have hear from Labour Members today recognise the cumulative damage cause by their Government ' s policy . there be the national insurance job tax , hike the cost of hire staff by £ 900 for an employee on the average salary and cost business £ 25 billion in total . there be the business rate relief cut , from 75 % to 40 % , mean that business will spend £ 2 . 7 billion extra a year by 2026 - 27 . there be the Employment Rights Bill , which , as I say , will cost business £ 5 billion a year , and probably more once the Government finally get their impact assessment right — normally government produce an impact assessment before a Bill be publish , not after it have pass through all its stage in the House of Commons . there be the Energy Secretary , who want to increase the carbon price high than Europe ' s and , accord to the National Energy System Operator report that he constantly endorse , up to as much as £ 147 per tonne of carbon dioxide by 2030 . as industry be line up to tell the Government , that be yet another job killer . there be also , of course , the change to business property relief that we have discuss today , which will cost £ 1 . 25 billion in lose revenue and mean 125 , 000 job lose by 2030 . do my hon . friend agree that the impact of the change to agricultural property relief and business property relief be already be feel by business across the country ? farmer be simply have to shelve investment for fear of a huge inheritance tax bill . that be affect the wide rural economy , because no new machinery be come and no new building be be build . it mean few tax receipt for the Treasury , few job and a poor United Kingdom . I absolutely agree . I be baffle by the speech of Labour Members ; they be line up to say that they have be meet local business that be desperate to congratulate they on the tax rise that their Government be impose on they . that be clearly ridiculous . in my constituency of West Suffolk , I be proud to represent so many family business that contribute to the economy . the Hadley shipping group , own by James Warwick , be one of the last remain family - run shipping company in Britain . the Claydon family have manufacture and export world - class agricultural machinery since the 1980 . Wedge Group galvanise in Haverhill be a lead business in hot - dip galvanising in Europe and beyond . we need those vibrant and successful family business to help we build again and , as my hon . friend the Member for Bridlington and the Wolds ( Charlie Dewhirst ) have just say , they be tell we the same thing : that because of the policy of this Government , they be confront with a choice between sell their business altogether , sell part of their business or cut much - need investment . I will conclude by say that repeat the word " growth " in press release , ministerial speech and tweet do not make growth magically appear . pummel business , as this Government be do , be the fast route to kill growth and our prosperity . I call the shadow Minister . when he be seek the vote of small business owner last summer , the Prime Minister say : " small business be the lifeblood of our community . " he say that business be " the beat heart of our economy " and tell small business owner in Southampton that Labour would deliver the stability that business need to thrive . the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the Business Secretary all look business in the eye and say that they have their back , but at the very first opportunity , Labour unleash the big attack on business in a generation . it give its union paymaster a blank cheque to craft an employment Bill that will make it impossible for business to grow . it give we the job tax , the family business death tax , and business rate hike up and down the high street . business owner across this country be endure a horror show reminiscent of the dark day of the 1970 . it be no wonder how we get here . not one single person around the Cabinet table have serious experience of business . they do not understand what it mean to take the risk that create growth . they do not understand the responsibility that business owner take on when they decide to employ people ; what it be like to worry , day and night , about whether they can make payroll at the end of next month . they just do not get it . today we have hear some excellent contribution from Conservative Members , my colleague , who do get it — who understand what it take . my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) remind we that it be business that create job , not warm word from the Government . my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) tell we that the Government be in denial about the impact of the change , the choice they have make and the tax increase — we have hear that again and again today . my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) remind we that family business be the breeding ground of entrepreneur — how right that be . my hon . friend the Member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) remind we that when it come to business , Britain ' s get talent . business provide so many people , include myself , with their all - important first job , but they be be crush by what my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) rightly call today ' s toxic concoction of change . my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , as a former and fully qualified solicitor , remind we of the devastating impact of the employment Bill , which he have study . my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) talk about how family business be people ' s hope , dream and ambition . my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) remind we that , right now , business be cut apprenticeship , pub be close and high street be be damage , and that once again , Labour be not work . my neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) remind we that Labour see business as nothing more than a cash cow to fund its spending spree , and my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) talk about how growth can not be magicke out of thin air , however much this Government try . family business be found on solid principle and self - reliance . my hon . friend the Member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) bring his experience of business to bear on this debate — it be not government that create , but business owner work hard , day in and day out . my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) remind we that , just seven short month in , the Bank of England be halve growth forecast , the cost of living be rise and unemployment be go up , all on this Government ' s watch . finally , my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) remind we why we be really here today . we be here today because Labour break its election promise . it have increase spending by £ 76 billion a year — eight time what be in its manifesto — and it be business that be pay the price . business be not an abstraction ; it be our pub , our caf é s , our restaurant and bar , our clothe shop and our newsagent . they be very real , and they be in very real danger . for many of they , the choice the Government have make will be terminal . the British Retail Consortium , the British Chambers of Commerce , ukhospitality , the Federation of Small Businesses and Family Business UK be all ring the alarm bell , but this Government be not listen , and we have hear that across this House , include from the other party here today . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say that Labour ' s job tax will hit the lowest - pay the hard , as firm be force to make the tough of decision to survive , but for what end ? it be to fund pay rise for train driver , to give away the Chagos island and to finance Red Ed ' s mad windmill obsession . will the shadow Minister give way ? I will not , as time be limited . yesterday , the Conservatives successfully amend the national insurance Bill in the other place to mitigate the bad of labour ' s job tax . in wind up , will the Minister confirm that the Government will respect that amendment to exempt hospice , care provider , GPs , pharmacy , small charity and special educational need and disability provider from the bad ravage of Labour ' s job tax ? let I be entirely clear , for the benefit of every one of our constituent , that these be choice that Labour have make , and they be not choice that will lead to growth . one archetypal small business be the family - own pub , and we can all think of a family - own pub that we have come to love . thousand of they will fall victim to this Government ' s anti - business agenda . that be not to mention the Government ' s tax on the staff behind the bar , a Bill to ban banter , a threat to end even those cheeky cigarette outside and even a power for the Business Secretary to shrink the size of the british pint . the Government be give themselves unchecked power that could see the great british pint vanquish as part of their Trojan horse , EU surrender product regulation Bill . the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , who have return to his place , say that the Government have no plan to ban the pint . if that be the case , will they support our amendment 38 to save the pint ? the shadow Minister be in the Chamber when I speak early . do he not agree that it be the Weights and Measures Act 1985 that protect our pint and that we should not be scaremongere that our pint be in anyway at risk ? I deeply regret that if the hon . Lady read the Bill , she will find that it precisely confer those power on the Secretary of State , but she can join with those on our Benches in the other place by support the amendment . the Government can make clear today whether they be scaremongere or whether we should all be deeply concerned . by back the amendment , they can remove that live risk to the british pint . [ interruption . ] they can back the amendment any time they want . the bravery — I will be kind — of those sit on the Government Benches be impressive . every single one of they will have to look their constituency business owner in the eye . every single one will have to face constituent as they lose their livelihood . the choice that this Government have make will put thousand of employer in the red and some out of business for good . hundred of thousand of job will be lose . for just one second , I ask Labour Members to put themselves in the position of an employer , tell their long - stand staff that they can no long afford to keep they on . those on the Government Benches do not understand business . their interest be with their union paymaster , not the worker who will lose their job . they be petrify of celebrate success and support wealth creator . this be a Government who be take business for grant . it be devastate our economy , and we will all pay the price . I thank member on both side of the House for their contribution to what have be an interesting debate . we hear , in particular , excellent speech from my hon . friend the Members for Vale of Glamorgan ( Kanishka Narayan ) , for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) , for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) , for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) and for Clwyd East ( Becky Gittins ) . we also hear interesting speech from the Liberal Democrat hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) and her colleague the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) , and from the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) and for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) , the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) , for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) , for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) , for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) and for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) , as well as Scottish National party and Plaid Cymru speech from , respectively , the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) and for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) . as my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury emphasise in his opening remark , we be take the tough decision now to support family business . we recognise that they be the backbone of our economy , our community and , indeed , our society . unlike the conservative party , who crash the economy , we be determined to champion those family business . while the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , be sit at the Cabinet table , the cost of loan to family business be go through the roof . he be part of a Cabinet that leave this Government with a huge £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . it be always interesting to listen to the shadow Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , who never seem to mention any more that he be once in the Treasury help to write the Liz Truss Budget . any time he want to intervene and apologise for that , he will find I willing to let he do so . he finish his time in Government as a business Minister , when a record number of family business go bust . [ interruption . ] order . I be interested , and my constituent will be very interested , to hear what the Minister be say . we know that there be just over 5 million family business in the UK , the vast majority of they small business . we be determined that , for the first time for a decade and more , those small business will be place at the front and centre of the Government ' s plan to kick - start the economy . in our first almost eight month , we have already take significant step to begin to reverse the decline of the last 14 year , all of which will help to create a strong business environment for family business to grow and develop — for instance , an investment summit that raise £ 63 billion and create 38 , 000 job ; start our programme to build 1 . 5 million new home ; kick - start great British Energy to bring fuel price down ; major reform to the planning system ; record research and development spending ; and significant investment in new infrastructure . in the Budget , more than £ 1 billion be announce for the British Business Bank over the next two year , with more funding for start - up loan and the growth guarantee scheme — precious capital to help entrepreneur to take idea from design to development , and to build the next generation of family business . I be not entirely sure whether the Minister himself believe what he be read . have any economic impact assessment be make of the collective impact that all the Budget change will have on many of our family business , include the reduction in the agricultural property and business property relief ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for mention those relief , and I will come to they in due course . the Budget also set out practical support for small business , especially those on the high street . many family business be affect by shoplifting , and no one should underestimate the scale of the problem that we inherit in that regard . out - of - control shoplifting have plague family business , and business generally , for year , with both staff and store owner feel powerless and police force , cut to the bone under the last government , inadequately resource to respond properly . just yesterday , the Home Secretary confirm that in the Crime and Policing Bill we be tackle this issue head - on by scrap the effective immunity for low - value shoplifting , thus help all family business . at the Budget , my right hon . friend the Chancellor also announce additional funding to crack down on the organise gang who target retailer . for my entire work life I have be self - employ in the family business which be establish by my dad and my uncle in 1975 . do the Minister agree with my experience that family business do not operate in isolation ? lot of thing matter to family business . if someone be ill in the morning , they can not join the 8 be merry - go - round for a GP appointment — the state that the Tories leave this country in — because they have to get to work , open up and get people through the door . if the bus do not work , staff can not get in . if pothole be not fix — Order . I do agree with my hon . friend . as he rightly allude to , in the Budget we have to take tough decision to fix the foundation of our economy , to restore stability and to begin to rebuild the crumble infrastructure and address the terrible state of our public service . while we have raise employer ' s national insurance contribution , we have mitigate the impact by increase the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 — a record amount — which mean that 1 million small business will be pay either the same or less in national insurance contribution than they do now . several hon . member rightly point out during this debate that a lot of family business be high street business . many of they have be run for successive generation , and they be part and parcel of our community . the conservative party do next to nothing to help family business on Britain ' s high street . it allow thousand of bank branch to close and thousand of pub and other high street family business to go , too . that be why this Government be focus on our five - point plan to breathe life back into Britain ' s high street . as the Minister know , the Nationwide Caterers Association , which represent small independent and family - run street food business , be base in king Norton in my constituency . I thank he for the recent positive meeting we hold . do he not agree that one of the previous problem it face be that , under the previous Government , it struggle to get a seat at the table ? I be pleased to see my hon . friend and those from the business organisation he bring in to see we , and I hope to have the opportunity to come to his constituency to see very directly the action we discuss at that meeting . our five - point plan to breathe life back into Britain ' s high street , as well as to address antisocial behaviour and retail crime , mean reform the business rate system , work with the banking industry to roll out banking hub , stamp out late payment and empower community to make the most of vacant property . we be already deliver in all those area . to support high street family business and other sme far , we have freeze the small business multipli and extended business rate relief for the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . we be permanently reduce tax on property for those business , too . one of the many reason why the conservative party lose the confidence of british business be that , despite promise many time to reform business rate , it never do . we be determined to do so . even at this late stage — and I hope the House will join I on this — I hope the Scottish Government will agree to cut business rate for the retail , hospitality and leisure sector in in Scotland , echo what we be do here . hon . member will know that , since Christmas , high street rental auction have allow council to tackle persistently vacant property by put lease up for auction . this right to rent for business be pave the way for further regeneration and growth , for new family business to emerge and for current family business on the high street to benefit from the extra footfall . we be also determined to tackle the scourge of late payment . over 50 % of small business have report problem with late payment . after year of tough talk and little action from the conservative party , we have already take decisive step to protect family business in this regard . we have already announce measure to tackle late payment in contract with long payment term , so that small firm be not wait month on end for big firm to pay up . we will bring forward secondary legislation in this parliamentary session to make further change , and will shortly launch a public consultation on potential primary legislation measure that go far still to tackle this problem . to far help family business , we be create a new business growth service , which over time will bring together under one national banner a whole array of business support service throughout the UK . however , we be not stop there . later this year , we will be launch our small business strategy . from boost scale - up to regenerate the high street , support the adoption of new digital technology and far address the access to finance challenge that business face , this paper will set out the Government ' s vision for all small business . we have set out a whole series of measure to tackle the situation face family business in this country . in his opening remark , the shadow Chancellor fail — remarkably , perhaps — to acknowledge that accord to the late PwC chief executive survey , the UK be the second good place in the world to invest , behind only the US . he also fail to mention that the International Monetary Fund and the OECD both predict that Britain will be Europe ' s fast - grow G7 economy in the come year , and omit the fact that the UK be the only G7 economy , other than the US , to have our growth forecast upgrade last month by the IMF , which credit the decision we make in our Budget . that be the kind of change the british people vote for at the last general election . there be still a lot more to do , and we on the Government Benches be determined to get on with the task . question put . Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Ashley Fox James Wild Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 108 , Noes 313 . question accordingly negative . British Indian Ocean Territory I advise the House that Mr Speaker have not select the amendment in the name of the Liberal Democrats . I beg to move , that this House regret the report multi - billion pound cost of the UK - Mauritius deal ; note the risk the deal present to the UK ' s strategic interest ; further note that it be a policy choice , not a legal necessity , and the concern hold by chagossian over the Government ' s failure to engage comprehensively with they ; and call on the Government to — ( 1 ) lie before this House a chronology of the negotiation between the UK Government and the Government of Mauritius , since 4 July 2024 ; ( 2 ) confirm whether the account of Prime Minister Ramgoolam give to the Mauritius National Assembly on 4 February 2025 be correct that ( a ) there have be a change in the sovereignty arrangement over Diego Garcia from those previously agree , ( b ) change have be make to the term of the lease on Diego Garcia , and ( c ) change have be make to the cost of the deal since it be first agree and announce in the UK - Mauritius joint statement on 3 October 2024 ; ( 3 ) confirm from which departmental budget the cost of this deal will come and what they will be , include whether any of the propose increase in defence spending , as announce by the Prime Minister on 25 February , will be use to pay for this ; ( 4 ) explain what involvement the Attorney General have have with this deal ; ( 5 ) set out the negotiate objective establish by the Prime Minister ' s Special Envoy for BIOT negotiation and the reason the Government seek to accelerate negotiation and conclude they before the mauritian election . when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . nowhere be that more obvious than in Labour ' s botched , embarrassing , humiliating and secretive deal with Mauritius to surrender the sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory . in a world that be increasingly dangerous and uncertain , where threat from both state and non - state actor be grow and our national economic and security interest face threat from new technology , it be inconceivable that a Government , whose first concern and priority must be the defence of the realm , would give away one of the most important strategic military asset that we hold , let alone pay a foreign Government for its continue use . it be like hand over your house to someone else , and have to pay for the privilege of continue to live there . this socialist Government be commit to the principle of redistribute wealth — Government Members be cheer about that — but redistribute the sovereignty of key strategic and military asset in this way be not just socialism but recklessness . it be incompetent and , quite frankly , irresponsible . we can not afford to gamble in any way when it come to our national security and defence . I be a little confused — [ interruption . ] if the conservative party want to take back Tunbridge Wells at the next election , its member would do well to listen . will the shadow Foreign Secretary clarify why she be criticise a deal for which the negotiation be start by the conservative party ? I can not speak to the hon . member ' s confusion , but let we be clear that it be not the conservative party that be put forward a surrender deal . let I be crystal clear : we be not surrender our territory or sovereignty in any way whatsoever . while the Labour Government , inspire by their dogmatic commitment to misguided — will my right hon . friend give way ? of course I give way . let I help the confused Liberal Democrat Member . I be in the Foreign Office during the whole of the Tory negotiation . I witness exactly what my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) and the noble Lord Cameron do in those negotiation . I can tell my right hon . friend , the House and the Liberal Democrats that the deal that have be do by the Labour party be one that Tory Ministers would never have countenance . my right hon . friend be fast - forwarding to some of my wide remark , but he be absolutely right . I thank he for his time in the Foreign Office . it be under Lord Cameron when all this be stop . it be an advisory opinion . in 2019 , it be the Conservative Government and Conservative Foreign Office Ministers who make that point and stop all this nonsense from go on in the first place . conservative Members stand in support of the national interest . I pay tribute to my colleague in previous conservative Governments for resist the effort of some country , include China and Argentina , who vote at the UN General Assembly in May 2019 to demand that the UK withdraw from its administration of the Chagos archipelago within six month . the former Foreign Secretary Lord Cameron deserve credit for resist the claim make by Mauritius and for ensure that our sovereignty be not surrender while he be Foreign Secretary . how have we get here ? as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , from the sheer volume of urgent question application that you and Mr Speaker have preside over on the issue , the Government have act in a secretive manner , provide little information on the deal agree and how it be reach . get fact and information out of the Government have be like extract water from a stone , but after ask many question we have manage to secure some information . what do we know ? [ interruption . ] I can tell Government Front Benchers who be chuntere away — perhaps they would like to listen to some of the information — that less than three week after take office , on 23 July , the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary prioritise this issue by meet the then Prime Minister of Mauritius , Pravind Jugnauth . we do not know what be discuss at that meeting , but on 6 September the Foreign Secretary announce that Jonathan Powell would be the special envoy . on 3 October — less than three month after come into office and when the House be not sit — the Foreign Secretary confirm that he have wave the white flag of surrender . he confirm that the Labour Government would hand over the sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory , pay a lease for the use of the base at Diego Garcia — the amount have be keep secret — and pay towards an economic development partnership with Mauritius and a chagossian trust fund . not only be the deal put together in haste and in secret , but serious concern be raise about the timing of the agreement . the then Mauritian Prime Minister call a general election the following day — 4 October 2024 — and , of course , the presidential election of our ally and partner in Diego Garcia , the United States of America , be hold the follow month . the result of both those election lead to change in administration ; I will touch on that shortly . the decision over the future of this key strategic military and security asset have be take in advance of the strategic defence review be complete , the spending review and the China audit . how can the Government justify give away the Chagos island and lose control of this asset before they have thoroughly assess the threat we face and our long - term defence and security need ? unlike lawyer - lead Labour — not qualified lawyer . if I may caveat my remark , unlike those unqualified , pretend lawyer — not even actual lawyer — conservative Members believe that decision over the future of key strategic military asset can not be take on advisory opinion issue and by motion agree in international organisation , especially when such vote have be cast against we by nation , and indeed judge , who may pose a threat to we and have their own interest . Britain be a global power , and we face global threat . the base of Diego Garcia be one of the most important strategic and military asset in the Indo - Pacific for we and for our US partner . if our sovereignty over the base and the Chagos island be lose , diluted or compromise , we be weak , and our rival , competitor and enemy grow strong . do my right hon . friend agree that those who be lead by lawyer — there be nothing wrong with that — should at least get the law right ? if there be legal jeopardy here , do she agree that we should understand what that jeopardy be ? she know that the International Court of Justice can not make a bind ruling against the UK on this matter because Mauritius be a member of the Commonwealth and we have not accept its jurisdiction in those circumstance . if there be legal jeopardy that make a deal necessary , do she agree that this be a good moment for the Minister to explain to we precisely what that legal jeopardy be ? my right hon . and learn Friend absolutely speak sense on this issue and that be exactly why I enjoy work with he so much on some of the challenge we face in government . that be exactly the point . turn to the substance , or propose substance , in the propose treaty , the Labour Government fail to provide any transparency over plan , but we be fortunate that the new Prime Minister of Mauritius , Navin Ramgoolam , and his Government have be much more open and candid about the negotiation , share the detail of the humiliating concession that Labour Ministers have make in this epic failure of diplomacy . I just want to prompt my right hon . friend to pursue one other matter , which be quite important . I be look at the list of the judge who sit on the ICJ panel . it be quite interesting . apart from there be a Russian who be fully supportive of the invasion of Ukraine , it turn out that Vice - President Xue , who write the whole case , also vote to support the russian invasion of Ukraine and be heavily involve in the chinese Government previously . to what degree do that represent balanced and informed judgment — here internationally — as we would have in the UK ? my right hon . friend be spot on and make a point that I have make . there be people — judge in particular — who clearly be undermine our integrity , sovereignty and the decision making in our own government . they be pursue their own interest and that be why we have to call out this deal . on that point , do my right hon . friend see the report in the Daily Telegraph on 26 February that one of the other judge who take part in that judgment , Patrick Robinson , believe that the United Kingdom should be repay at least £ 18 trillion in reparation for slavery in the past ? I do read that report . I have to say that that be exactly why we question the deal . it be the wrong approach , it really be . for all the lawyer sit on the Labour Benches and in the government — well , suppose lawyer — why be they not effectively look at the integrity of the propose deal and provide the scrutiny that be need ? we need Ministers to confirm when they decide that the propose deal should be share with the new American Administration , because there be so many question as to how we get into this position . for week , Ministers refuse to say — here at the Dispatch Box — that they would wait until President Trump take office , include fail to answer question directly on 14 January . while they be refuse to say anything , the Mauritius Government suggest that Ministers here be not just eager but desperate to complete the deal by 20 January . but on 15 January , through a Downing Street briefing — not a statement to this House , Madam Deputy Speaker — we learn that the Government would now wait to brief the new President and that the Prime Minister of Mauritius tell his Assembly that it be a unilateral decision of the United Kingdom to postpone matter . when the Minister respond to the debate , will she finally confirm on which date the Government policy towards consult the new US Administration and delay the deal be agree ? my right hon . friend make an excellent point . the attitude of the Government of the United States be absolutely central . there have be a profound change in the stance take by the Government of the United States , with the election of the new President . instead of embrace that and see it as an opportunity , the Labour party seem determined to railroad through a deal that do not , it appear , command the support of the Government of the United States . it be a preposterous position to be in . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . it be shameful , because these be exactly the question that we on the Opposition Benches be put forward to the Government , and they be simply refuse to be transparent and answer any question whatsoever . the fact of the matter be that the credibility and integrity of the Government be at stake . if they can not come clean on these simple question , what else be they hide ? this be compound even far only yesterday , when the statement be hand to the Leader of the Opposition with redacted information . that be absolutely shameful . the duty of his Majesty ' s opposition be to hold the Government to account . how can they do that if they do not get the information need to make the good decision for the country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be afraid that the Government need to reflect on their own conduct . the british public be about to have to fork out huge amount of money for a deal that have have no scrutiny or public airing whatsoever . the lack of transparency be one thing , but when we see this be repeat across every Government Department and even in a Prime Minister ' s statement , it be simply unacceptable . there be something deeply shameful about the conduct and the lack of transparency of this Government . secondly , on the negotiation , the Mauritius Prime Minister have publicly give a chronology of the counterproposal his Government have put forward to change the agreement reach and announce by his predecessor and the UK Prime Minister . he have state to his National Assembly that , upon take office in November , he have — guess what ? — review the deal . this be exactly the same deal that the Foreign Secretary have describe as " a very good deal " , and one he be " confident " that the Mauritians be still really sure about , yet the Mauritian Prime Minister conclude that the deal " be so bad that we say , no way ! " there be video footage of that as well . it be available online for everyone to see . he claim that he subsequently submit a counterproposal to the UK and that the UK Government respond on 16 December . then , on 31 December , Mauritius submit its response and request a meeting in January , which be quickly arrange and hold . that meeting take place . the Mauritius Cabinet then meet on 15 January and , soon after , its delegation , lead by its Attorney General , Gavin Glover , come to London to meet the Minister and the Attorney General , Lord Hermer . so , accord to the Mauritians , a series of counterproposal and response be exchange , but when we have ask the Government about whether counterproposal be receive and what they be , include at question yesterday , Ministers have continually refuse to say . I find it astonish that this House have have to rely on Hansard from the Mauritius National Assembly . it be very good ; I recommend that colleague read it . we have have to rely on that hansard to find out what UK Government Ministers be up to . that be why our motion demand the publication of a chronology so that we can know what have happen . when we hear from the Minister , perhaps she can confirm whether this account from the Prime Minister of Mauritius be correct . the Minister should also explain to the House the role that the Attorney General have be play in these negotiation , because write answer have state that his meeting with the Mauritius delegation last month be a " courtesy meeting " . but the Prime Minister of Mauritius have state that when his Attorney General meet his british counterpart , Lord Hermer , and the Under - Secretary of State in the Foreign Office , they both assure he of the commitment of the UK Government to sign the agreement between Mauritius and the United Kingdom . give that assurance seem to demonstrate that the Attorney General be actively play a part in the negotiation , rather than attend a " courtesy meeting " , and in view of that previous interest in the British Indian Ocean Territory , question will rightly be raise about his involvement . so can the Minister confirm whether the Attorney General have recuse himself from these matter ? thirdly , we know from the account give by the Prime Minister of Mauritius that concession have be make over sovereignty , even though Ministers here have refuse to confirm or admit it . the joint statement of 3 October say : " for an initial period of 99 year , the United Kingdom will be authorise to exercise with respect to Diego Garcia the sovereign right and authority of Mauritius require to ensure the continued operation of the base well into the next century . " when we ask yesterday whether a change have be make , the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) say : " the fundamental of the deal remain the same " . — [ Official Report , 25 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 618 . ] but if the fundamental of the deal remain the same , why have the Mauritius Prime Minister say that " there have be change . the British agree . we insist that the sovereignty issue be the crucial and the most important issue … we insist that it be clear that we have complete sovereignty on the Chagos , include Diego Garcia . the British agree to that and this have be change . " and why be it that , in a letter send to I this week by the Foreign Secretary , he do not use the word " sovereignty " in relation to the lease , only state : " the UK would retain all the right and authority we need to ensure the long - term , secure and effective operation of the base . " the difference in the language between the joint statement from October and this letter to I matter . the Minister , the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister might not realise it , but remove sovereignty be a fundamental change , and it matter for the defence and security of our country . my right hon . friend ' s point be not merely semantic , because in international law — which I know hold great sway on the Labour Benches — those who interpret our entitlement will look closely at whether we have sovereign power or only power by mean of an agreement that can be tear up by Mauritius . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . sovereignty matter , and the Minister could not admit it to the House yesterday in the Chamber , but perhaps when a Minister sum up today they can confirm that change in position . we need to know whether we have lose sovereignty and lose control . fourthly , it be clear there have be a change in the lease agreement — this letter make that crystal clear . when the Foreign Secretary make his statement to the House on 7 October 2024 , he state that the lease " be initially for 99 year , but the UK have the right to extend that . " — [ Official Report , 7 October 2024 ; Vol . 754 , c . 46 . ] the impression give be that this could be unilaterally extend , as he would not say at the time that both party need to agree . the reality be that the present Prime Minister of Mauritius have publicly state — by the way , he also mention that the cost would be up to £ 18 billion — " interestingly , we would have happily look at joint sovereignty where it be clear , but the British Government do not want it . " my right hon . friend be absolutely correct , and I be afraid it show the lack of commitment to even understand the sovereignty of the territory . be my right hon . friend aware that there be already a campaign , lead by local celebrity in Mauritius , to ensure that once sovereignty be restore to Mauritius , the treaty be renege on and an attempt be make to close the airport ? my right hon . friend make an important point , and that be why we on the Opposition side of the House will be scrutinise the government even far on this . we will be hold they to account . they simply do not value sovereignty and they be about to give away control , and that be simply unacceptable . this issue of sovereignty be crucial . first , it be not about restore sovereignty to Mauritius ; Mauritius never have sovereignty in the first place . moreover , the moment at which the United Kingdom Government concede the point of sovereignty , all else be lose in the negotiation ; we will have not a leg to stand on . so clarity on this point be essential . my right hon . friend be absolutely right , and the Government seem to have a complete disregard for this . he be absolutely right that Mauritius never have sovereignty in the first instance , and now look at this terrible mess . this be a complete surrender and an epic failure of diplomacy . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will give way shortly . we also know from the Mauritius Prime Minister that the lease extension provision have — guess what — be change and dilute . he tell his National Assembly , talk to their Leader of the Opposition , that " the agreement be for an agreement of 99 year , and then , unilaterally , the British would decide on an extension of that agreement for 40 year . we have no say in it . we disagree completely ! it can not be that an agreement be sign for 99 year , and then the British on their own would decide that they will renew the agreement and we have no say in it . " he go on to say that he have get this change : " the extension have to be agree with both party . it can not be unilateral from the british . and I be glad to inform the Leader of the Opposition that the British have agree to that also . " the Foreign Secretary , in his letter to I , remark that the 99 - year lease " can be extend if both side agree . we will have the right of first refusal , mean it can ' t be give to any other country at the end of the treaty without we first agree . " that is , frankly , an astonishing response to receive , and an astonishing concession for the Labour Government to make . this deal be bad enough at the outset , but now we know that , despite the Minister ' s claim that the " fundamental of the deal remain the same " , — [ Official Report , 25 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 618 . ] we have go from the UK be able unilaterally to extend the lease by 40 year to now be able to extend it only with the agreement of Mauritius , and there be a " right of first refusal " caveat in that lease too . the House should be shock by this , and we need answer . I urge the Minister to answer these question when she respond . what happen at the end of the 99 - year period if both party can not agree ? what happen if we want to extend and Mauritius do not ? what will happen to the base and the equipment under those circumstance ? what if , at the end of 99 year , the price that Mauritius ask for be too high ? if we can not unilaterally extend the lease , then — guess what — we have lose control . the Labour Government may not realise this , but Mauritius know it very well . the british taxpayer know this extremely well , and of course our enemy know it — they be sit back and watch , rub their hand with glee , because on all the key negotiation point , Labour have back down and Britain be lose control . my right hon . friend make an incredibly important point about how the Government be give this away , but we only know that because of what Mauritius be say to the public . we in this House have be constantly leave in the dark — so much so that even when I be recently on " politic Live " with the Leader of the House , she refuse point blank and totally lose the plot when I start to question she about what this Government be do . be transparency not absolutely at the core of what we need to hear from the Government ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . I have already make the point — Madam Deputy Speaker , you will have hear many of we say it — that there be a failure to be transparent . the fact that I have quote so much from the Mauritius National Assembly ' s hansard speak volume about the conduct of this Government . it have be a great read , and the video clip be absolutely astonishing , but I certainly think that the Government should learn some lesson on high standard and raise the bar . what my right hon . friend describe be truly shocking . this Labour Government be go to give away british sovereign territory , and they be go to charge the poor elderly pensioner and our businesspeople to do so . they be go to fundamentally fail in their first duty to keep Britain safe by make our country less safe . what on earth be motivate they to do this dreadful thing ? there be plenty of speculation as to why the Government wish to go down this course , and it be not in our national interest . I will say it : labour do not represent the national interest when it come to sovereignty and fighting for the real freedom that the british people believe in . I have speak already about the term of the lease . the Labour Government have also make concession on the cost — the price that british taxpayer will be force to pay because of this shambolic , economically illiterate government . for week we have be ask about the cost and any change make from the position in October , and for week minister have fail to give answer , but the Prime Minister of Mauritius have confirm that concession have indeed be make . he tell his National Assembly that " we also want to do front loading ; some of the money have to be front load , — he say that with a lot of enthusiasm — " and that also be be agree to " . it be only after I write to the Foreign Secretary to highlight this that he finally accept that this have happen and that change have be make . he write in his letter to I : " there have be some change to the financial arrangement to enable a limited element of frontloade , but the overall net present value of the treaty payment ( which account for the impact of indexation ) have not change since " . that change be not announce to the House , and nor do the Minister , or any Minister , mention that in this Chamber or when I raise it in the House yesterday . we know that the cost will be front - loaded , but we still do not know what they will actually be . the Foreign Secretary tell I in his letter that the £ 18 billion figure report " be false and significantly exceed the quantum . " so what be the figure ? be it £ 9 billion , £ 12 billion , £ 15 billion ? be it high or low ? the Minister need only nod to give we clarity on that , but perhaps she do not even know the cost . the Defence Secretary be ask this morning on LBC where the funding be come from . he say : " there will be no payment unless and until the deal be strike . " that do not answer the question . who would go into a deal without know how they will pay for it ? which budget be the funding come from — the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office budget or the Defence budget ? be it include in the new defence spending or not ? those be question that the Prime Minister refuse to answer today . do my right hon . friend have any thought on how we can get those answer now ? I thank my hon . friend for that essential question , which remain unanswered . at the end of the day , the Government must be clear about which budget that money be come from , because we need to know . we do not even know the sum , but this be taxpayer ' s money . how can any Government justify those extraordinary sum ? what be agree universally be that the cost be £ 9 billion — the Government do not question that at all . whether there be front - loading or not , we do not yet know , but let we assume that the cost be £ 90 million a year for 99 year . a lot of people in the medium and in politic seem to have a problem with basic arithmetic and compounding : £ 90 million a year , index - link at 3 % , be £ 52 billion — a completely eye - watering sum . I be very surprised that his Majesty ' s loyal opposition be not use that number , or perhaps they be just so embarrassed about have begin the negotiation themselves — I do not know . the bottom line in all this be that there be no transparency at all from the Government . we will absolutely press and hold they to account on that . I come back to the point we have just hear from the Opposition Benches , which be that no Minister — not even the Defence Secretary today — have tell we where that money be come from . perhaps this Minister do not know the cost , or maybe she need permission from the Attorney General , or from Rachel from account , even to comment on the number , but the House must know . Labour have seek to hide behind the real reason for what be go on . it be constantly use the fig leaf of national security to avoid tell british taxpayer how much the deal will cost . that be simply not acceptable . if the Government will not tell we the number , they should at least tell we where the budget have come from . in a write parliamentary answer of 22 November , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury confirm to I that he have engage in discussion and reach an agreement with Cabinet colleague on the financial element of the propose lease of the military base on Diego Garcia , as part of the UK - Mauritius agreement announce on 3 October . will the Minister confirm — she can intervene now if she would like to — whether that funding will come from the defence budget ? if it do , will it count towards the new 2 . 5 % target announce by the Prime Minister yesterday ? it would be a stain on the government if they reach that target as a result of waste money — hard - press taxpayer ' money — on that unnecessary lease . the british public deserve accountability and transparency . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will give way one more time . she be be very generous in give way . do she agree that the Government stand accuse of perhaps be guilty of some creative accounting ? if they be transfer money from the international development budget to defence , and then transfer the self - same money from defence to Mauritius , allow Ministers to benefit from the fiction of an uplift in the defence budget , the public be entitle to smell a rat . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . it be completely duplicitous . that be no way for any Government to conduct themselves , particularly in relation to such a matter . to conclude , in negotiate this deal and agree to surrender — will my right hon . friend give way ? I be sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I do say that I would give way to my hon . friend . I hope my right hon . friend will forgive I if she be come to this point in her final word , but be it not extraordinary that we should be do something that so many people in Washington profoundly object to , when the Prime Minister be about to have an extremely delicate discussion with the President of the United States about whether he will reaffirm his guarantee for the security and peace of our whole continent , and indeed of our country ? be this not a kind gift that the Government should take to Washington and say , " we will drop this if you have the slight objection " ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this be a critical time for our two country when it come to both our place and our standing in the world . all we have see from this Government be an epic failure in diplomacy , and concession after concession . the Labour Government have show themselves to be weak . not only have they undermine our strategic defence interest and our very close relationship with our dear ally , but they be put our territory at risk and waste taxpayer ' money . we need a Government who stand tall in the world and who fly the Union flag with pride rather than the white flag of surrender . the deal be an epic failure in diplomacy and it be cause our standing in the world to fall . the House must vote for our motion to defend our national interest and Britain ' s stand in the world . order . before I call the Minister , I must inform the House there will have to be an immediate five - minute time limit on Back - Bench contribution , which obviously exclude those from the Front Benches . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) for bring this opposition debate to the House . as she know , for over 50 year the UK - US base on Diego Garcia have be a bulwark in the Indo - Pacific , support critical mission against terrorist , counter hostile state and keep we , and the rest of the world , safe . this Government be commit to protect our base , protect our position and capability in the indian ocean , and protect national security . the deal that we have negotiate achieve all of those goal . it be root in a rational and hard - head determination to protect our country ' s security , which be the first duty of any Government . it be this Government who be deliver on that and not duck question , as the right hon . Lady well know . rise — I will make progress and then I will be very happy to take intervention . the status quo be not sustainable . it imperil UK and US strategic interest . a deal , as the right hon . Lady know , be necessary . this deal will ensure the continue , uninterrupted operation of the base on Diego Garcia , well into the next century . it will cement UK and US presence in the Indo - Pacific for generation to come . I do not hear a single suggestion in the right hon . Lady ' s lengthy speech about how she would secure that base at all . base operation have be under increase threat for decade — [ interruption . ] the right hon . Lady know that and many member on the Conservative Benches also know it . rise — claim that there be no legal necessity to negotiate be absolutely wrong ; they misunderstand the legal jeopardy and immediate operational challenge that the base face . [ interruption . ] I will come on to that ; I be well aware of that . ever since the legal certainty of the base be call into doubt , its ability to operate in practical term , as it should be able to operate , give that it be such a critical facility , have be undermine . I know that the right hon . Lady be aware of that . rise — the 2019 International Court of Justice advisory opinion might be the most eye - catch of the legal development in recent year — be the Minister go to give way or not ? I will happily give way to the right hon . Gentleman . okay , excellent . I want to bring the right hon . Lady back to her statement that there be an imperative to resolve the situation . she know very well that in the original advisory opinion by the ICJ it be very clear , as have be make clear by the ex - Attorney General , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , that nothing regard the Commonwealth fall within the directive , so by definition it be advisory . at the bottom of that agreement , the Government have a waiver that say that if they want to dismiss the advisory opinion , they can go ahead on that basis , so I ask the right hon . Lady : have this Government issue a waiver on the provision that nothing have to be a directive from that court ? have they issue a waiver ? the right hon . Gentleman be well aware that of course we know about that ICJ carve - out in relation to the Commonwealth . that be common knowledge . I find it slightly strange that he be present that as something that the House be not aware of — that be very peculiar indeed . he would have do well to wait for the rest of what I be go to say in relation to legal jeopardy , because this be by no mean — will the Minister give way ? no , I will make progress . will the Minister give way ? no , I say that I would make progress . order . as the shadow Minister will know , the Minister be not oblige to take intervention from the Dispatch Box . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . let I explain to Conservative Members , because I feel they be perhaps unaware of the fact that the ICJ advisory opinion be simply the most eye - catch of a huge number of legal concern around the present situation . those who have the genuine security of that base at the front of their mind would be determine to secure its future . without a deal , it be inevitable that Mauritius would pursue a legally bind judgment against UK sovereignty . since 2015 , 28 international judge and arbitrator have express view on the sovereignty of the Chagos archipelago . [ interruption . ] conservative member be keen to shout . I wonder if they can tell I how many have agree with the UK ' s position . they be very quiet . that be because not a single one of those arbitrator and judge have express support for the UK claim about sovereignty . that lack of legal certainty would have real - world impact on base operation and create space for our enemy . some of those impact would be on simple but crucial thing , such as secure contractor and get overflight clearance . I regret that the opposition say not a single word about the issue of secure contractor and get overflight clearance . there be other matter that they do not talk about . the right hon . Lady be absolutely entitled to explain the Government ' s position , but if her argument be that there be legal uncertainty , she have well get use to it , because there be legal uncertainty about a lot of thing . if her argument be that lot of people disagree with the UK ' s position , she have also well get use to that . as I have understand the Government ' s position , it have thus far be that the advisory opinion we have receive may one day become a bind judgment against the UK , oblige the UK Government to act as they now seek to do . I want to know from where that bind judgment may come , and I have not yet hear an answer . I note that when the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about the potential for real - world consequence come from legal uncertainty , some on the Conservative Benches laugh . we do not find this subject amusing ; we view it as incredibly serious . if we do not have a deal with Mauritius , Conservative Members know that it would have every incentive to do a deal with someone else . we would face the risk of joint military exercise around the base — I do not hear a single word about that from Opposition Members . we would face the risk of other country set up outpost on surround island , which appear not to be a concern for Opposition Members . we would also have the risk of hostile actor try to interfere with crucial communication , and crucial communication they be . that be what be in our strategic defence interest , which the shadow Foreign Secretary mention . without a negotiate solution — will the Minister give way on exactly that point ? no , I will make progress . will the Minister give way ? no , I will keep speak , as be my right . without a negotiate solution with Mauritius , it would pursue its legal campaign ; it have make that very clear , as the shadow Minister know . that would lead to an inevitable , legally bind judgment , which would be — [ interruption . ] order . I will not have this level of shout at the Minister . I will hear she , and of course , it be within she right not to take intervention . please can member approach this debate in an orderly fashion ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I be say , in that kind of situation , we would unfortunately see international organisation follow that determination , such as the International Telecommunication Union . [ interruption . ] I hear from the Opposition Front Bench , " let they have a go . " the consequence of let they have a go could be that critical spectrum for telecommunication that be essential for our security be compromise , another issue about which I sadly hear nothing from the right hon . member for Witham . the legal necessity of this deal have rightly be recognise by successive government . this be absolutely risible . I agree with the chuntering ; it be risible that the Conservatives undertake 11 round of negotiation on this subject , and they simply will not admit to have do so . the right hon . Lady herself state that that be something she could not speak about . I be grateful to the Minister for give way on that point , because she be at risk of not necessarily be accurate in her remark . she be absolutely right that the Conservative Government go into negotiation with Mauritius , but she seem to think that start negotiation mean that the end result must be capitulation and abide by Mauritius ' s idea . before other member stand up and read out the Labour party briefing , can I remind the Minister that under a conservative Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron , it be deem that those negotiation be go in a direction that be not in the british national interest , and they be end ? I find the approach of Opposition Members to this subject to be very confusing . [ hon . member : " shocking . " ] some say shocking — I say confusing . some Opposition Members have say that they can not speak about those 11 round of negotiation . a moment ago , we hear an intervention state that those negotiation must have be completely different in content , without spell out why they be different . I find this a peculiar situation . of course , there be many thing that the Conservatives start that Labour do not want to continue — economic chaos and damage to our public service be some — but the Conservatives begin those negotiation , and indeed have 11 round of they . rise — rise — I be happy to give way to the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . unlike some of my esteemed colleague , I be not a learn lawyer or a former Attorney General , but to an ordinary layperson like I , it sound very much like the right hon . Lady and her Government be prepared to give away sovereign british territory and billion of pound of taxpayer ' hard - earn income , simply in case somebody bring a court case sometime in the future that may or may not be successful . can she please reassure I that that be not true ? I think that the ordinary general public would be pretty concerned about a situation in which we have the risk of joint — [ interruption . ] opposition member laugh . they laugh about the risk of joint military operation around the base . they laugh about the risk of other country set up outpost on surround island , and they seem unconcerned about the threat of hostile actor try to interfere with crucial communication . those matter be of concern to the public , and they be of concern to the Government . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I apologise , but to prevent the Minister from inadvertently mislead the House , in answer to a parliamentary question , we have it from Sir Chris Bryant , ironically — order . Mr Francois , you know that you must not refer to member by their name . we have it from the telecom Minister that the International Telecommunication Union have no power to veto the use of military spectrum , so it could not interfere with satellite . that be the Government ' s official position ; do the Minister now wish to correct her remark ? rise — order . I think I will respond to the point of order first . the shadow Minister will know that that be not a point of order , but a point of debate . I do not want to embarrass the right hon . Gentleman , but he surely understand the difference with access to spectrum , which be the key issue here . it be critical . I find it strange that he allot that issue so little consideration , when it could be of such strategic importance to our country . the right hon . member for Witham talk about remark from Mauritian Prime Minister Ramgoolam . it appear that she have be spend a lot of time look he up at length on the internet . I therefore find it rather strange that she do not see what he state on 5 February , where he set the record straight about the term of the deal . perhaps she do know about this , but choose not to refer to it in her remark . he confirm what this Government have be say with clarity and consistency since the announcement of a political agreement in October , so let I spell out what we have say about the duration and term of the treaty and what Prime Minister Ramgoolam confirm , which appear to have be miss in previous comment . the deal will be for 99 year and can be extend if both side agree . the UK will additionally have a right of first refusal , mean that the island can not be give to any other country at the end of the treaty without we first agree , and there be no change to the right and authority that we will have to operate the base . Parliament will have the opportunity to scrutinise the detail of the treaty after signature , when it be lay for scrutiny under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 process before ratification . we would be delighted to have the right hon . Lady ' s scrutiny , as would be usual . to suggest that there be an acceleration of the negotiation before the mauritian election fly in the face of the fact , as have be the case with many comment from the opposition on this matter . when we take office , the negotiation have be ongoing for two year . we continue to engage with the Mauritian Government and to work in lockstep with the United States . while we recognise that it be in the interest of all side to finalise the deal quickly , we do not put a completion date on the negotiation . we do not do so then and we do not intend to do so now . we be of course engage with the new US Administration , include discuss the full detail of the agreement , just as we engage with the previous US Administration . I find it rather strange that the opposition be confused about the nature of modern negotiation . as we and Mauritius have say repeatedly , include in joint statement on 20 December and 13 January , both side remain committed to conclude a deal on the future of the Chagos archipelago that protect the long - term effective operation of the joint UK - US base on Diego Garcia , continue the practice of the previous Government . as be usual in these circumstance , negotiation have be lead by official with clear guidance and oversight from Ministers . rise — rise — I give way to the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth . I have a feeling that if I have an invisibility cloak like my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) seem to have , it might well help we win in Ukraine . I simply ask this : negotiator have be give a negotiation to do , so in the name of transparency , can the Government tell we which budget the funding will come out of ? they must know when they go to negotiate what they be actually negotiate . I be more than happy to go into the financial question in a few moment , because this too , sadly , be an issue about which the opposition have be deeply confused . as for the question regard the Attorney General , he meet his mauritian counterpart for a courtesy call . as be state when he be in the UK in January , that meeting do not constitute part of the formal negotiation . I find it strange that the term " formal negotiation " be not understand by the opposition ; again , they be confused . on the broad question , the Attorney General have be clear that , as have be the case with every other Attorney General , whenever a conflict might be identify in any hypothetical circumstance , it would be deal with as part of the proper process and he would recuse himself , if that be need . will the Minister give way ? I be happy to do so . hurray ! I appreciate that the Minister ' s budget have be cut so much that she be now put on suicide watch to defend the indefensible for the Government — [ interruption . ] and I appreciate that the howl of outrage from Labour Members will be confect when it come to this issue , for the simple reason that the Minister have nothing to add on a budgetary question that have go from $ 13 billion to $ 6 billion and be now come out of her budget . will she make it absolutely clear to the House that there be no way that she will take hard - earn taxpayer ' money that should be go to support the poor in the world and instead pay off a government who actually have no legal claim ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman be honourable , and he may wish to reflect on his opening remark , because that be not his normal style at all . as for his question about finance , it be clear that a financial element be vital to secure a deal to protect the operation of such a vital base over the course of 99 year . if we do not pay — I will say it again — someone else will . our adversary would jump at the chance to establish outpost on the outer island . there have be a lot of inaccurate speculation about the cost of this treaty . I genuinely appreciate the opportunity that the Minister have give I to speak about this matter , but I want to clarify a point . she have say this a couple of time now , and I want to understand . she keep say that if we do not pay , someone else will . who would be the recipient of that payment , give that the Chagos island be british sovereign territory ? be she suggest that another country would pay we ? why would another country pay Mauritius ? the Chagos island do not belong to Mauritius . I know that the right hon . Gentleman understand full well that this be because of the legal uncertainty that be create by the current situation . that have be recognise time and again . it be the reason his government engage in 11 round of negotiation , and it be why there be this problem . I be surprised that conservative Members be so unconcerned about the contestation that we see in that part of the world , and the need for our country ' s interest to be put first . rise — no , I will not take another intervention from the right hon . Gentleman . my response be very clear . on the subject of inaccurate speculation about the cost of the treaty , Prime Minister Ramgoolam have confirm that the report of a doubling in value be completely false . the overall cost of the deal have not change from that negotiate with the former mauritian Prime Minister . there have be some change in the financial arrangement — why ? I be just about to come on to that . there have be some change to enable a limited element of front - loading , but the overall net present value of the treaty payment , which account for the impact of indexation , be not high than it be . I will not press this point , because it would be very unfair to Opposition Members , but surely , when they talk about economic illiteracy , they be not fall into the trap of confuse timing with magnitude , because there be a pretty obvious difference between the two . we will provide more information on the departmental budgetary impact in due course . the detail will be set out when the treaty be lay before Parliament . we be see more bizarre claim about this issue even just within this debate . frankly , we hear wild enough one early when the Leader of the Opposition have she say , and the Prime Minister explain that she be wide of the mark . of course , as colleague would expect , any funding arrangement and the departmental split of any cost arise from the treaty with Mauritius will be finalise through the spending review . I have to say that I be use to hear some pretty wild math from the Conservatives , and we have the true Tory kamikaze Budget of course , but they be surpass themselves , because it be ridiculous to compare — will the Minister give way or tell we how much ? I will continue to explain why the Conservatives can not compare speculative figure for the lifetime cost of a 99 - year - long agreement to protect our national security with an annual uplift to defence spending that be the large since the cold war . there be clearly a difference of many order of magnitude , and I feel that they really need to reflect on the bizarre claim they be make . although this have necessarily be a state - to - state negotiation , with our priority be to protect the base , we recognise the importance of the island to Chagossians , and we have work hard to ensure that this agreement reflect the importance of the island to Chagossians . some may say that it be farcical to talk about Chagossians , but I do not believe it be farcical . as we have already announce , we will finance a new trust fund for Mauritius to use in support of the chagossian community . we will work with Mauritius to start a new programme of visit for Chagossians to the Chagos archipelago , include to Diego Garcia , and Mauritius will be free to develop a programme of resettlement on the island , other than Diego Garcia . I have to say that the Minister be put up a very loyal and heroic defence of her Government ' s policy . however , I predict that if the Government persist with this proposal , it will become a run sore for the govern party , and they will rue the day . the british people will know that they have just give away a sovereign territory unnecessarily , and what be more , they have put the icing on the cake with billion of pound of taxpayer ' money . they will never live it down , so my advice to the Government be to quit while they can . I do appreciate the kind tone in which the hon . Gentleman express his remark . however , I would say , respectfully , that the run sore be the situation that have lead to our country ' s national security be subject to legal jeopardy because this issue have not be resolve . the Conservative Government , on whose bench he sit , have 11 round of negotiation with Mauritius on this subject , and this Government have be determine to make progress for the sake of our national security . what be the point of the Conservatives start a negotiation if there be no intent to reach an agree solution ? if there be a red line , which they be now say there be , where be it publish ? I could not have say it well myself . that be indeed the nub of the point . I want to inform the House that , separate from the agreement , we will increase our support to Chagossians who be live in the UK and around the world through new and exist project . another issue that have be of considerable interest to Members be the environment . we have secure a deal that will help to protect the unique environment of the Chagos archipelago — one of the world ' s most important marine environment — to which both the UK and Mauritius have commit . the agreement will be support by an enhance partnership between the UK and Mauritius , under which the UK will support Mauritius ' s ambition to establish a marine protect area that protect the globally significant ecosystem in the Chagos archipelago . that be particularly important when it come to protect the island ' biodiversity and ensure they be protect against threat such as illegal , unreported and unregulated fishing activity . I be strike by the fact that it have take nearly an hour of discussion and debate in this Chamber for Chagossians to be mention for the first time — not a single member of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition choose to mention Chagossians in their multiple intervention . I have speak to Chagossians over many month and year , and they have tell I they be genuinely fearful of be trade from the United Kingdom to Mauritius , a Government who have — order . I be sure the hon . Gentleman be get to his point , but intervention really should be short . he could have put in to speak in the debate , have he wish . he have a few more moment — that be all . I would simply ask the Minister : what role have Chagossians play in the negotiation thus far ? she mention a marine protect area — I know for a fact that Chagossians have not be consult on that particular point . the hon . Gentleman be right to raise this issue . of course , he will understand that the negotiation be between the UK and Mauritius , and that our priority be to secure the full operation of the base on Diego Garcia , as we have be discuss . we do recognise the importance of the island to the Chagossians , which be why they be engage with after this deal . it be important to respect the fact that there be different view within the chagossian community . they do not speak with one voice ; no community do . the Chagos Refugees Group , for instance — one of the large chagossian group — have welcome the agreement . we will continue to have those discussion with the chagossian community , particularly those base in the UK . on the environment , I will lastly mention that the agreement , with its environmental focus , have be welcome by instrumental conservation non - governmental organisation , include the Zoological Society of London . will the Minister for a moment acknowledge the hardship and horror that all Chagossians have be through since they be illegally expel from their island many year ago ? they all deserve recognition , the island themselves should never have be separate from Mauritius anyway , and what we be do now be correct an historical wrong . I ask she not to be invite down a neo - colonial route by the Conservative party . I will not be invite down any route by the conservative party . we all know where that lead — to rack and ruin . of course , the situation for many Chagossians have be very difficult . I know this be an issue of concern to many member , particularly those who represent UK - base Chagossians . that be why , as I say , that engagement have be important . rise — I will take one last intervention . the Minister be put up a gallant fight in a very difficult situation . for the avoidance of doubt , be she say that there be another court — other than the ICJ — that could compel this country to give up the Chagos island ? if so , will she identify that court ? what I have say be that there be clear risk to critical function of that base on Diego Garcia because of legal jeopardy . conservative Members do not appear to be aware of those issue for contractor , insurer and communication and from the risk of hostile state when it come to the outlying island , while the Government be concerned about that risk . I detail early the 28 different judge and arbitrator who have express an opinion on this . to suggest that there be no legal jeopardy be , I be afraid , for the bird . to conclude , this deal have have support across the US national security apparatus . the previous US Administration support the deal . the new US Administration be rightly ensure that they be satisfied . the deal have be welcome by India and the UN Secretary General . the shadow Foreign Secretary mention China in her remark . again , I know that conservative government have be confuse about China . they have oscillate all over the place in their relationship , but can she or anyone tell I whether China have welcome this deal . no ? a pin could drop , Madam Deputy Speaker . China have not welcome it because it know that it will strengthen our country ' s position in the region for the foreseeable future . security must be our priority , but we have also negotiate an agreement that protect the unique marine environment and reflect chagossian ' demand . this deal will protect the base , solidify our relationship with our close ally and reinforce the UK ' s global leadership . anyone who value UK national security and that of our ally should back this deal . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . before I address the position of the Government , I feel oblige to respond to the comment of the shadow Foreign Secretary , who have so kindly spend her evening review the proceeding of the Mauritian Parliament for all our benefit . she have press the Government on why they have advance this deal , yet she have no answer to my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) on why her Government begin talk with Mauritius . the pronouncement of the right hon . Lady about lawyer and the judiciary be consistent with a party that have long since give up on uphold the rule of law . the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) be a lone voice in stand up for the force of law . he rightly observe that the UK do not subject itself to the ruling of the International Court of Justice in respect of contentious case with Commonwealth country , yet he raise two point that the right hon . Lady do not address . first , the UK have subject itself to the jurisdiction of the ICJ and its predecessor since 1929 . secondly , as this discussion flow from an advisory opinion of the ICJ , which she now say be unjustified or irrelevant , why do the Conservative Government feel compel to begin talk and conduct more than 10 round of negotiation ? the Liberal Democrats , unlike the Conservatives or Reform , believe that the UK be strong when it work co - operatively with other country , strong when it support the rule of international law , and strong when it take action to support international institution . that be why we believe that the UK should take seriously the advisory opinion of the ICJ and other legal opinion on this question and why the Conservative Government be right to open negotiation and the Labour Government be right to continue they . all that say , the process of agree a treaty over the past few month have be nothing short of shambolic . there be three critical issue in this sorry tale and I regret to say that the Government have fail on each of they . first , on the security of the United Kingdom , for decade , Diego Garcia have be a key strategic asset . its importance have only increase over time , in light of the change threat picture and the increase aggression show by China . the chaos of this negotiation have not give any reassurance that our security be be safeguard . secondly , on the right of the chagossian people , since the 1960 , they have be displace and decision take about they without they — to use a phrase that the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister have recently adopt . in October , outside Parliament , I meet chagossian who live in the UK and want to have a say in the future of their island . they be highly critical of not be a part of the negotiation . thirdly , on the role of Parliament in the negotiation , Liberal Democrats have long argue that international treaty should come to this House before signature so that parliamentarian can scrutinise the Government ' s proposal . in this case , the Government rush to an agreement with Mauritius that promptly unravel . why have the Mauritian Parliament and Donald Trump be give a say about british sovereign territory , but this Parliament have not ? the Government have repeatedly obfuscate and refuse to provide detail of the deal to Parliament . if it be true that the cost be in excess of £ 9 billion , UK taxpayer will want to know how the Government have find that funding when winter fuel payment have be scrap , family farm be be threaten and charity and health provider be be hit with national insurance increase . will the Minister please answer the following question ? what security guarantee be contain in the draft treaty ? will Parliament be give a vote on the treaty before it be sign ? how much will be pay to Mauritius as part of the deal ? finally , will Chagossians be include in the future process of agreement ? the conservative party pretend to recognise the serious threat that we face , but bring forward yet another debate on the topic , just as our Prime Minister head out to Washington to broker a just peace for Ukraine , be an act of blatant sabotage against our national interest . yesterday , we see a superficial and unconvincing performance of consensus from Opposition Front Benchers , who can not bring themselves to recognise that this Government be deliver on national defence and security commitment in a way that they could not for the past 14 year , in particular regard increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp to protect our country . let we face it : the Leader of the opposition be so desperate for share on x that she be incapable of engage with sobering geopolitical reality , just when national consensus be need . the truth be that none of we yet know the exact detail of the financial or security component of the propose deal with Mauritius , which mean that the purpose of the debate be clear . it be not intend to enable an honest and informed debate about how we can well secure our UK defence and security interest in the indian ocean over the next century . instead , it be design to maximise the chance of a damaging dispute about this with our US ally , just when all our energy and diplomatic capital need to be bring to bear to persuade the US of the need for continue commitment to european security and security guarantee for Ukraine . that be why certain voice have turn up today , when they have be absent in all our national security discussion or discussion on Ukraine . if the opposition succeed , they will do enormous damage to our national security and that of our european ally . another aspect of the issue , which the opposition be determined to disregard , be the fundamental importance of the rule of international law for our national interest and security . first and foremost , that be critical to our diplomacy in support of Ukraine . Russia ' s invasion be a clear breach of the UN charter and it be on that basis that many country around the world continue to vote with we , include early this week and in case where country be non - aligned . I fully understand that there be a range of view about legality , but the direction of travel be clear and we can not uphold the principle of a rule - base international order on the one hand while completely disregard the multiple finding of international court on the other . finally , as I have say many time in this place , my experience of discussion with US defence colleague show a clear and settle preference for legally binding and secure agreement , particularly around the base arrangement . those preference be important for long - term relationship with the US and so be the clear support for the deal from India , whose partnership we must prize highly in this increasingly fragmented world . these live diplomatic question should be deal with sensitively and in a way that seek cross - party consensus , most of all at this critical time when we need to present a united face to a bitterly divide world . ultimately , if a treaty with Mauritius be deliver , it will ensure the continue ability of UK and US defence and security asset to operate in the region for many decade to come . that objective be vital for our national security , in contrast to the opposition ' s motion , which do nothing but undermine it . we be short of time and other member wish to speak , so I will try to be as brief as possible . I follow my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) , whom I know and respect very much . I do not agree with he fully on this , but he make his point forcefully . I want to come back to legal uncertainty . the point be whether it be unclear if the original ICJ judgment stand as an absolute judgment . we know very well that the agreement say clearly that any dispute with a Government of any other country that have be a member of the Commonwealth be therefore beyond it . when the court make its ruling , it be clear from the very beginning that it be an advisory judgment and not base on a legal position . I remind member of what I say early : many of those who be part of that judicial process be not the long - stand judiciary in the sense that we would understand it here in the UK . many of they be political . Vice - President Xue write this from the word go . she have be heavily engage with the chinese Government for some considerable time . the Chinese be not so stupid as to publicly welcome something , to give we an excuse to say that it be terrible — I say that as someone who be sanction by they — but the reality be that they be the major threat . China watch and know that it be in a far well and strong position if there be considerable doubt here about what be go on with ownership . we face that problem from the word go . I ask the Minister a very important question . I do not believe that the last Government , when they enter into discussion , waive the requirement that Commonwealth issue can not be touch by this court . under that agreement , they have to waive submit themselves to the judgment of that court . I ask she again , and I will happily take an intervention — [ interruption . ] before she start give we that lecturely look , let I say to she — [ interruption . ] no , she do . instead of put on the " tut - tutte " face , could she just answer this question ? do this Government , at any stage during these negotiation , waive their right for the ruling to be see as anything other than advisory ? have they waive that exemption ? I have make that very clear previously . that carve - out for the Commonwealth be very clear within the ICJ . I think I look at the right hon . gentleman with a smile . if that be somehow look at he in a " lecturely " way , I be terribly sorry . if she be not careful , I might ask she to share a drink with I later . [ interruption . ] I know , it ' s irresistible , isn ' t it ? the main point be that she do not . that be as clear as mud . I ask a very specific question : do they waive their right over this particular agreement ? that make this , from the word go , not inconclusive and not , therefore , a mysterious judgment . it be an advisory judgment and the Government be under no pressure to accept it . do my right hon . friend agree that it be ironic that we be apparently willing to give in to a judgment from a judge from China who oversee the erosion of right of the people in Hong Kong , in violation of our agreement with they ? that be shocking and show the weakness of slavishly adhere to international law . the interesting point , which I raise because the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead say that we should remember that this be also about the security of Ukraine and other — I fully agree — be that three of those judge vote against censure of Russia when it invade Ukraine . we have to be very careful , because that ulterior motive be quite different from what he claim , quite legitimately , be part of our reasoning ; I fully agree with he on that basis . on obey the law , this be the law , and we do not have a judgment from a court that can be hold by other United Nations body as stand . if that be the case , all the other legal point , which the Government start raise only after they realise that the ruling be advisory , do not stand either . it would be ultra vis of body such as the International Telecommunication Union suddenly to claim that there be a judgment against we and to act on that basis , as that would be a transgression of the original agreement . the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , who speak for the Liberal Democrats , make some of these point , but I want to raise this quickly with the Minister . the Chagossians I have speak to have all say that they would rather be UK passport holder , and they just want to go home — and " go home " mean turn around that bad judgment from the ' 60 so that they can go back to their territory . I would love that to have happen from day one ; that would have solve this . the Chagossians do not want to be under the suzerainty of any country other than the UK ; and they want their possession back . the reality be that we do not really ask they about that , but we should have do from day one . it would help the Government ' s argument that they be act in the public interest if they be much more open about what have be go on in these negotiation . there be a legitimate question about that . we all unite behind the idea of the Prime Minister raise defence spending , and we wish he the good when he go to Washington ; that be in our public interest . as I make clear at the statement yesterday , I would stand behind nobody in my support for he on that . I therefore ask the Government why they simply will not answer the question about where any money in the agreement be go to be take from . surely that would end the debate . they do not have to say what the amount be ; they simply have to say that it will come from the defence budget , or whatever budget it be . if they say that , that would look open . will they please also open up about what they have be discuss ? it be all stall now , so maybe they should reflect on the difficulty . the reality be that this whole process have be ill - thought through . what we need to do now be ensure that the Government stop , rethink the process and do not search for excuse that be not legal at all , but accept that our security and that of all the trade route that cross through the area be under threat if they proceed with this process . I be pleased to speak in the debate . however , it be disappointing that his Majesty ' s opposition feel the need to use part of their Opposition day to debate this issue , give that important negotiation continue between his Majesty ' s Government and Mauritius on the future of the Chagos island . it be never wise to give a running commentary on complex negotiation — perhaps the opposition should have be more patient . I understand that the negotiation so far have be productive , with both country reiterate their commitment to finalise a treaty as soon as possible , with term agree to ensure the long - term , secure and effective operation of the exist base of Diego Garcia and mauritian sovereignty over the archipelago . I believe that the deal will protect UK and US national security interest by ensure long - term , effective operation of the base . since its creation , the British Indian Ocean Territory and the UK - US military base have have a contested existence . it be only a matter of time before the UK would have to choose between break international law and negotiate from a position of weakness and risk national security . it be therefore necessary to pursue an agreement to ensure the stability of the base . it be right to give the new US Administration the chance to consider the full agreement properly . I be pleased that the Government will finance a new trust fund for Mauritius to use in support of the chagossian community . together , Mauritius and the UK will also work to start a new programme of visit to the Chagos archipelago for Chagossians . this be a bilateral agreement between the UK and Mauritius . we be mindful that the future of the island be an important issue for the chagossian community . their interest have be an important part of the negotiation . as the UK have previously make clear , the way Chagossians be remove from the Chagos archipelago and the way they be treat thereafter be wrong . the Government have restate their commitment to support chagossian in the UK , with all chagossian remain eligible for british citizenship and make a home in the UK . the fcdo have also declare that official will continue to engage with different chagossian group over a range of issue . the agreement also shut down any possibility of the indian ocean be use as a dangerous illegal migration route to the UK , with Mauritius take responsibility for any future arrival . I be reassure that Parliament will have the ability to scrutinise the treaty under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , as be standard for international agreement . I be also reassure that this will be a unique agreement . the Government have stress that it have no bearing on wide UK Government policy regard the overseas territory . the agreement do not signal any change in policy to Britain ' s other overseas territory and past press speculation be factually wrong . the Chagos island be a very different issue with a very different history . we stand 100 % behind the right to self - determination for the people of the Falklands and Gibraltar . the military base on Diego Garcia be vital to our national security and I welcome the Government take on the negotiation as the good way to secure the future of the base . the Government inherit a situation where the long - term future of the military base be under threat . I be therefore glad that the Government have secure a deal that protect the base for at least 99 year , a period that can be extend . within the deal , there will be clear commitment for robust security arrangement . that , along with our guarantee to the chagossian people , give I confidence that the Labour Government be do the right thing . I thank Nick Coombes from my office for help I draft a long speech , most of which I will not be use , give the time constraint . may I try to lower the temperature in what have be a very passionate debate ? I have immense respect for the Minister . she have have a very difficult outing today and she have hold her head up high . her former career as a lecturer will hopefully hold the House in good stead and perhaps she can educate we on some basic question , because this be the second time this week I have ask question about the Chagos island and I be still confused . the Conservative Government enter into negotiation 11 time . [ interruption . ] I know the junior parliamentary private Secretary be very eager , but please do let I say a few more word . my Government enter into negotiation 11 time . as anyone with any semblance of business experience will know , you enter negotiation but you do not always achieve an end result . the Labour Government win on 4 July . within three month , they decide to do thing differently from what my Government do 11 time , when Lord Cameron close the negotiation . can the Minister explain the rationale and what materially change — we have hear about the advisory judgment by the ICJ ; I be not a lawyer and have never claim to be — to help we to understand , and to well educate I and my constituent , why they be give our sovereign island away when the world be become increasingly dangerous ? various medium report suggest that there will be increase lobby from the Mauritius Government , and those they listen to , to revisit the term of whatever deal we do to their benefit . the frustration hear from the Conservative Benches be about the lack of detail . I welcome the hon . member ' s interest in the Chagos island and his desire for detail . it be obviously an issue he be very passionate about , but he have not mention it previously in his time in Parliament . I wonder whether , give his desire for detail , he could let we know the name of the four main Chagos island ? I have not be to that part of the world but , as the new Member will learn the long he be in this place , certain position do not give we the ability to speak in the Chamber , and one of those be that of a Government Whip . I be also the parliamentary private Secretary to the Foreign Secretary , and again , we do not speak about our own Department . go back to the substance of the debate , I have try to approach this issue with a modicum of decency in order to get the reasonable answer that we all want to hear . one of the concern we have on the Opposition Benches be the " bull in a china shop " way in which this government be choose to force through a deal that we will not have sight of until after it be sign . there be also continue question about money . I know that the Prime Minister ' s redact statement that be share with those on my Front Bench yesterday be quickly amend . it do not allow those on our side enough time to scrutinise it properly . I would say to the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) , whom I thank for his gallant service , that we be in a democracy and the ability to debate and disagree be what make we strong . I hope the Minister for Development , or whoever be wind up on behalf of the Government , will be able to clarify some of the reasonable question we have consistently ask . give her former academic background , I hope she understand that if a student say that they do not understand something , she should find a different way of explain it . if she could do that , we on this side would have a well rationale of what the Government be try to achieve . the frustration we have hear from my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary about information come from the Mauritian Hansard reflect a discourtesy to this House . I know that if Mr Speaker be in the Chair , he would want the House to be inform of any detail that be in the public domain , and he be rightly go to investigate why certain detail be in the public domain yesterday before they be put forward to this House . I urge those on the Government Front Bench to share information that be in the public domain with we so that we can properly analyse and scrutinise it . the role of any parliamentarian be to be a critical friend of legislation and the future of our country . I think Mr Speaker and the Speaker ' s Panel continue to allow debate on this issue because not only we on the conservative Benches but the great people in the Chair be not satisfied . there will continue to be urgent question and statement . I would prefer Foreign Office Ministers to be out in the world fly the british flag on our behalf , but I will continue to lobby for UQs on this topic , because I think that have basic detail of what the Government be try to achieve be perfectly reasonable . the fact that the opposition have pick this topic again be very symbolic to I . they have decide that their outright rejection by the electorate last year be base not on the fact that they have not do a good job of deliver improvement to what my constituent care about , but on their make the mistake of get the vibe wrong . so they spend their time put out little picture online , vow to defend western civilisation , inform we that they be conservative realist and again debate the Chagos island . we could have choose to discuss health and the NHS . my constituent in Killamarsh frequently have issue access gp appointment , because we simply do not have enough GPs . nhs dentist appointment for adult be almost non - existent , so I welcome the recent announcement of several thousand extra appointment in Derbyshire . perhaps we could have hear what the Conservatives ' solution to those issue would be — I be a bit confused , once again . I think this debate be about the British Indian Ocean Territory , rather than about GP surgery . the hon . Gentleman need not worry . the night be young , and I will come to that . perhaps we could have hear what the Conservatives ' solution to those issue would be , now that they have have time in opposition to reflect on the many way they cause the issue in the first place . instead , we be talk about the Chagos island . perhaps we could have discuss what other measure be desperately need in constituency like mine , such as well bus , investment in transport infrastructure such as light and heavy rail , a step change in educational opportunity for our young people , energy security and how we can provide affordable house . I pay tribute to my gallant and hon . friend for her service and pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) for his . will she look back to that experience and say what kind of support those in the force want ? do they want more funding for our defence or do they want another debate about the Chagos island ? my hon . friend be exactly right . those in the armed force would have like to have hear about the support they need to do their job , the improvement to their accommodation , what we be do to improve their force and of course how we be ensure the future of a very important base that many of they be rely on . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way — not only an hon . Lady but an honourable comrade , as we both formerly be . we both hear the announcement yesterday and today of the extra money go to defence and I think we both welcome that . the thing that trouble I and my party colleague , about which I be sure she share concern , be that if we look at the way the math seem to be work out , particularly give the comment make by the Prime Minister ' s spokesman today , it appear that this be not a rise in defence spending but , once these issue be take into account , a cut in defence spending . do she agree that that be a matter of some concern ? when we factor in the cost of the Chagos , the single intelligence account and the other element , this increase actually look like a decrease . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his opinion and remind he that this be the large increase in defence spending for a long while . I be sure he be aware of the considerable damage do to the armed force over the last 15 year , which I and other who serve see at first hand . we be talk about the Chagos island again when we could have be discuss antisocial behaviour and other crime in my constituency . in Dronfield we struggle with car theft , gang exploit county line and issue with off - road bike , as well as mobile phone theft . do the hon . and gallant Member not think that her constituent have a right to know how much this deal be go to cost they before it be negotiate and finish ? there have be many question , as record in Hansard , about the project cost , and I look forward to see the final result of the negotiation in due course . it be already well document in Hansard that these negotiation be start by the Conservative Government and we all deserve to know why they decide to start they . they say they be necessary to " ensure the continue effective operation of the joint UK / US military base on Diego Garcia " . — [ Official Report , 3 November 2022 ; Vol . 721 , c . 27ws . ] they know that the status quo be untenable and a poor choice . this deal be the only way to ensure legal certainty for a vital base . like it or not , do nothing have leave we under the threat of legal challenge which jeopardise the future of the base . in my corner of the military I be well aware of the vital importance of this base and I be glad that we be now secure it . I assure Members that , unlike the Leader of the Opposition , who as of a couple of week ago have , I understand , refuse a classified briefing on the base — member can correct I if I be wrong — I know what I be talk about . if the Conservatives would like to suggest a well idea that be not just to do nothing , I would be interested to hear a credible point of view ; otherwise , forgive I but I will support what will actually work . when I go back to the constituency and have my surgery and knock on door , as I will tomorrow , I will be happy to tell my constituent that answer , but I know that it will not be need , because they will not be ask about the Chagos island . instead my constituent rightly prioritise health , transport , education , immigration and housing . they would rightly wonder why these be not also the priority of a political party interested in their vote . do nothing be the hallmark of the previous Conservative Government . it look like irrelevance will be the hallmark of this Conservative Opposition . as an elect representative of a very young political party , I watch this game go on between the two old party and find it difficult not to conclude that it be anything other than a complete and utter charade . although I agree with the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who make the argument that this be british sovereign territory and that there be nothing — literally nothing — to be gain by give it away , and I see those on the Benches behind her cheering , as we hear early , this be the party that go through 11 round of negotiation . the Conservative Government be happy to surrender the sovereignty of the Chagos island , but do not like the final shape of the deal . then the Government tell we that this deal have to be do because of legal uncertainty , but of course there be no legal uncertainty whatsoever . Labour Members can shake their head if they want , but they know I be right . the International Court of Justice have no jurisdiction over this whatsoever , so why be we do it ? I guess that it be because of post - colonial guilt and a Government run by human right lawyer . beyond that , I really do not understand it . I make a comment early about the cost . I promise the House that £ 90 million a year for 99 year with 3 % compound inflation be £ 52 billion . that of course be madness . member of this House have be say , " why be we not debate health or other issue ? " well , 50 billion quid be a very good reason to debate this . I have try in this House and elsewhere to make these argument . I have explain that China already have a smart city right next to Port Louis . I have explain that Huawei be the communication system . we see now that Prime Minister Modi be worried about miss out on the action . there be a 200 - mile marine park , which potentially have cobalt and other mineral resource that could be worth ten , perhaps even hundred , of billion of pound over the next few year , and we be prepared to give it all away . the timing of the debate be perfect , because the Prime Minister be mid - Atlantic as we speak . I have speak in the course of the last week to American Cabinet Ministers . while they be concerned about Chagos , they be even more concerned about bring an end to the war in Ukraine , which I think we be all very keen to see , provide that it be on the right term . there be also go to be a big debate about tariff . here be the point : Chagos be not especially high on the american agenda at the moment . I would love to see the American Administration veto this terrible deal , but I be not even sure then that this Government would move their position . they be clearly hellbent on give away the Chagos island , whatever the risk to global security or our own budgetary constraint , completely ignore the will of the majority of the chagossian people . if that be the case , I would rather see America have the sovereignty of the Chagos island than a corrupt Mauritius . if we be go to give up this sovereignty , we should sell and get a few billion quid for the Chagos island . Mauritius have no legal basis and no legal claim . investment would come , and the Chagossians could go back and get well - pay job . I want we to keep sovereignty , but if the Government be prepared to give away this country ' s interest , they should sell the territory to America , not give it away to corrupt Mauritius . we have all see what disregard for international law look like when it play out on the world stage , and that be why it be right and necessary to take a deliberate , consider approach when take decision that affect our national security and our global standing . decision must protect we here at home and be in step with our ally . with an agreement on the future of the Chagos island , we have uphold our commitment and protect our interest in the indian ocean . as someone who have sit around diplomatic table over the year , I would caution anyone against read meaning into a look or , indeed , a smile . it be the word on the page at the end of the day that matter . national defence always come first . it be important to recognise the strategic role of ensure a stable environment . as the Minister have highlight , the Chagos marine protect area , which be establish in 2010 , demonstrate UK leadership . it be a crucial and shine example of marine protection , cover over 640 , 000 sq km — more than eight time the size of the UK . as a fully protect marine protect area , the site be of global significance , provide an important refuge for many and play a crucial role in build resilience . the Conservatives start these negotiation . eleven round of talk later , they fail to deliver . we have reach an agreement that safeguard the long - term future of the base , strengthen our relationship with Mauritius , and protect our strategic interest in the region . this Government have deliver where the previous Government fail — an outcome that the opposition must start to get use to . may I start by pay tribute to Henry Smith , a former Member of this House ? he do an enormous amount of work over many year to represent the chagossian voice in our country , ensure that it be hear in these important debate . I agree with Henry that we , as a country , do a huge wrong to those people in not allow they to return to their country . sadly , this deal embed that wrong in perpetuity . it be a wrong that should have be right on many occasion ; a wrong that should never have be do in the first place . to embed it in this treaty be genuinely shameful . this country , and those people , deserve well than that . we have hear the debate about security . it be a bizarre argument that to swap a freehold for a leasehold be somehow to guarantee security in the long term . if any Labour member would like to sell I their house and then rent it back from I , I would be delighted to enter those negotiation . clearly , that seem to be the way they believe property ownership work . I be remind of the Annington Homes deal under a previous Conservative Government , but that be not the point of my intervention . if the right hon . Gentleman believe that there be absolutely no reason to have start the negotiation , would he say that the Conservative Government make a mistake in do so ? the hon . Lady will be aware , because I have be on the record on this , that I be entirely critical of the beginning of those negotiation when I be in government . I be grateful to the former Security Minister for give way . I put this question to he : " how can the base — which serve as an indispensable naval , air , and intelligence asset — be more secure under the sovereignty of another nation , rather than under our own ? " not my word , but the word of another former Security Minister , Lord West . as my right hon . friend know , the noble Lord , a former Labour Security Minister — and , of course , a former First Sea Lord — know well that those basis occupy a crucial part not just in our airbase , with strategic reach into the middle east and south - east Asia , but in the intelligence collection business that sadly we need to engage in to keep our people safe . the idea that we should hand over those basis in order somehow to satisfy an advisory ruling be , I be afraid , wrong . my right hon . friend touch on the point about the ICJ . do he agree that the ICJ decision be not only non - bind but perverse ? two of the judge on the court — Kirill Gevorgian , who be a key acolyte of Putin , and Xue Hanqin , a chinese official — vote against condemn Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , and do not represent anything other than the interest of our adversary . the point that my hon . friend make correctly be that this be a political judgment . it be a rational and reasonable political judgment for Moscow and Beijing to make ; the problem be that it be be make in Westminster . this be an error . it be an error for which we will pay for generation ; an error that will haunt we and cost we . on that basis , I urge the Government to do what they know be right , and not to continue with the argument that the hon . member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) make in point out that the Conservatives should never have start the talk . if that be true , why be labour finish they ? drop these talk and end this argument . rise — order . time be short , so I will now call the Front - Bench spokespeople . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Defence . I be grateful to all colleague who have participate in today ' s debate . in a week when the big domestic issue have be defence spending , there be one thing that we need from the Government today : transparency . every penny involve in this terrible Chagos deal will be public money , take from the pocket of hard - press taxpayer . the Government must be straight with the british people about how much money be be spend and on what . the fact be that after the opposition have raise the cost of the Chagos deal and all the related issue in six separate Defence and Foreign , Commonwealth and Development oral question , six urgent question and multiple write question , point of order and Prime Minister ' s question , we be still none the wiser about how much Labour ' s terrible Chagos deal will cost and what its impact will be on the defence budget . the Prime Minister have lead from the front on the complete failure to be open with taxpayer about where their hard - earn money will to go . yesterday , before the Prime Minister make his statement on defence spending , the Leader of the Opposition be , as be the convention , give a copy of his speech in advance . however , as Mr Speaker make very clear be definitely not the convention , all the key financial information be completely redact . as an opposition , we have no chance before the statement to do the sum that would have show that the claim of a £ 13 . 4 billion increase to defence spending be , in the word of Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , " play silly game with number . " the Prime Minister continue to make that claim about defence spending today , despite the Secretary of State for Defence — who , after all , have to spend that budget — say this morning that the figure be actually £ 6 billion . even if the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence be at odd on overall defence spending , they be unite with the rest of their Government in total silence about the cost of their Chagos deal . the Prime Minister be ask by the Leader of the Opposition and my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) three straight yes - no question today about whether the cost of the Chagos deal would come from the defence budget . three time , the Prime Minister refuse to give a straight answer . why can the Government not answer that question ? be it because report in the press be right that the total cost be between £ 9 billion and £ 18 billion , not include indexation — potentially three year ' worth of the entire additional defence increase , use the Secretary of State for Defence ' s figure , not the Prime Minister ' s figure ? or be it much simple , and the Government know that if the truth about the actual spending figure come out , the public would be aghast ? the public understand one basic truth : to lease back a military base for billion of pound that we currently own freehold make no sense at all . do the hon . Gentleman not accept that the Government have say that they will bring the full detail of the deal to the House for discussion and consideration , and that that will include the cost ? do he also not accept that the deal be with President Trump ' s team , and that it be right that our US ally consider the detail of the deal before they come to the same conclusion as the previous Administration ? the hon . Gentleman be do well on get a role as a parliamentary private Secretary . this be Parliament . ever since it start , Parliament ' s constitutional role have be to approve money for the Executive , but it can not carry out that role unless the Government tell Parliament the truth about how much money they be go to spend . as the shadow Defence Secretary be aware , it be the Prime Minister who come forward and say how he be go to spend that funding . the Opposition need to know if the defence increase he announce include the Chagos deal . the Government have make that decision but they have to put it to the House first . it do not make any difference if the announcement have already be make to Parliament , because we be talk about the defence budget . my hon . friend be right . why can the Government not tell we whether the Chagos deal will come from the defence spending uplift ? it be public money , not the Government ' s money . it come from taxpayer who be already overtax , so the Government could at least tell they where the money will come from . the Chagos deal may make sense through the eye of internationally focus lawyer and official respond with utmost caution to the advice they be give , but the opposition believe fundamentally that sovereignty be not something to be lightly surrender , include to the United States of America , if I may say so to the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . what we do know about the financial deal be that it be link to inflation . it be therefore inconceivable that Ministers will not have have that model . they will have a view about the likely increase in inflation and the total sum involve , and it will be astronomical , which be why they be try to disguise it . my right hon . friend be spot on . they know how much it will cost ; they be just not be transparent with public money . I turn to the speech make by my hon . friend . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) make an excellent point of order early , in which he make the point that the Minister have say — this be the crucial argument that they depend on — that the ITU could somehow threaten our spectrum at Diego Garcia . yet , as my right hon . Friend point out , the Telecoms Minister be very clear in a write answer date 12 February : " the ITU can not challenge the UK ' s use of civilian or military spectrum . " that be bang to right . the most extraordinary point that we have hear today from a galaxy of Government Back - Bench speaker be that somehow the opposition should not be call for this debate . the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) , the hon . and gallant Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) and the hon . member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) all say that somehow we should be debate important issue , such as bus and so on , yet the argument from Ministers be that this be critical to national security . if that be the case , surely we should be debate it in Parliament . we be go to keep on debate it until we finally get some answer . my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) make an excellent point . along with the shadow Foreign Secretary , I recently have a wonderful and very moving meeting with many chagossian up in one of the Committee Rooms , and they be clear that they have have no meaningful consultation with the Government and no face - to - face meeting . that be absolutely shameful . I make this point early : the Government ' s position throughout all this have move . first , we be tell that this be an absolute legal requirement under international law . when it be demonstrate that there be a get - out for Commonwealth issue , they move to talk about legal uncertainty , but there can be no legal uncertainty unless they have waive their right to have the Commonwealth overrule the judgment and it become an advisory position . do that not make one understand that they simply do not know what they be do ? my right hon . friend put it brilliantly . he put the question about the waiver and it be ignore , like all the other question we have ask . we have ask point - blank question repeatedly — UQs , oral question and debate — and the Government never answer any of they . I conclude with this : " surrender sovereignty over the Chagos Islands would be an irresponsible act , which would put our strategic interest — and the interest of our close ally — in danger . " those be not my word , but those of the former Labour Security Minister , Lord West . as Ed Arnold of the Royal United Services Institute put it so rightly on Monday , the Prime Minister " should shelve his Chagos Islands deal — it be peripheral to the UK ' s current security challenge and the money could be well spend on defence . " the opposition 100 % agree . we believe that this deal be bad for our security and that of our close ally , the United States . it undermine a military base that be strategically crucial , particularly in the face of the grow threat from China , and above all , it involve the unacceptable notion of pay billion to lease back land we currently own . it be time that Ministers tell we the truth about how much this deal will cost and where the money will come from . they can not keep redact when it come to the cost of Chagos . this be public money , and the public have a right to know the truth . we have hear some really interesting contribution during this debate . we have have some wild math , which Carol Vorderman would have have a word or two to say about . we have have some insulting comment from the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , who be downright play the man — or the woman — and not the ball , early in the debate . however , I will try to respond to some of the point raise , and certainly those that the Minister for Development do not answer . I think she do a pretty good job in open the debate . as my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) say , the Chagos island deal be paramount for our national security . it secure the joint UK - US base on Diego Garcia ; without it , the operation of that base be at risk . once finalise , the deal will ensure that the base can operate as it have do well into the next century . as member know , Diego Garcia be a joint UK - US base , and it be only right that the new US Administration have the opportunity to review the agreement — that point have be make on a number of occasion tonight . we will continue to hold constructive discussion with the US on the deal . as my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) say , we will only agree a deal that be in the UK ' s good interest and protect our national security . she , of course , have extensive experience in security and defence matter . many colleague have ask about the cost of the deal and whether payment have increase . the claim be circulate in the medium be categorically untrue . the overall cost of the deal have not change from that negotiate under the former mauritian Prime Minister . the initial political agreement sign in October be clear that the annual payment would be index , and that position have not change . as the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) — who be no long in his place — have say , this be a policy of the previous Government , one that have long be agree in write with the previous Mauritian Government . once the treaty be sign , it will be lay before both Houses for scrutiny in the usual way . this deal have not be rush . in fact , it be the subject of several — will the Minister give way ? I will just finish this point . the new UK Government inherit a situation in which the long - term future of the base be under threat . the previous Government obviously agree with this Government that there be a need to act , and rightly so — otherwise , the two year of negotiation would not have take place . successive conservative Prime Ministers , Foreign Secretaries and Defence Secretaries recognise this and give instruction to begin negotiation in 2022 , hold 11 round before July 2024 . if the Government be so confident that this deal offer excellent value for money and that taxpayer will welcome it , why do they not just tell we how much they be go to pay ? what this debate have show be that some member be find it difficult to deal with the fact that a treaty be between two sovereign government , and that when a government be operate , they have the right to make negotiation in their own way , particularly with the sort of majority that be achieve last July . of course , we have to have parliamentary debate and question have to be ask . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be there any rule whereby the amount of transparency from a Government should be determine accord to the size of their majority ? I think the Member know that that be not a matter for the Chair . let the Minister continue . that be the second point of order that be not really a point of order . it be quite fun to be in opposition , but what we have see in the past 24 hour be genuine leadership on defence matter , as oppose to some very high jink . do the Minister agree that what be important be assure the security of this base ' s future , and that until the opposition put forward a credible alternative , they should support the Government , who be fix this issue ? I rest my case . before the Minister conclude , will she put it on record that this debate be about the most grotesque injustice that be do to people under colonial subjection by this country ? since the 1980 , they have fight for their right to return to their island . right the historic wrong do to the chagossian people should be central to our thought . the right hon . Member have a long history of be active in the all - party parliamentary group with the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , who be not in his place but be on the shadow Foreign Office team . it go to show that across the House , there have long be a desire , include from the former Member for Crawley , to bring the true situation of the Chagossians to light . I pay tribute to all member from all part of this House who have fight for a long time for the Chagossians to be treat properly . as my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) say — in a sensible contribution , as oppose to some of the other contribution to the debate — we regret how the Chagossians be remove from the island and how they be treat thereafter . the negotiation be between two state , and our consistent priority and that of the previous Government have be to protect the base , and we have not necessarily always focus on the need of those people . I thank those member this afternoon who have bring forward the interest of the Chagossians , include some Lib Dem Members . the Government will finance a new trust fund for the support of the chagossian community . we will also take forward visit to the archipelago . for the first time , Mauritius will be free to implement a programme of resettlement to the island other than Diego Garcia . I know that that will also be a positive development for my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , whose community include an active group of Chagossians . I have a lot of respect for the hon . Lady , and that be why I will have one more go at this : be there any court , other than the ICJ , that could come to a judgment against Britain over the sovereignty of the island ? as the right hon . Member be aware , give his long background in intelligence , the lack of legal certainty be why we have act . the base can not operate in practical term as it should . it be bad for our national security , and a gift to our adversary , if we fail to secure legal certainty for the base . to continue the point on the Chagossians , there be many different view within the chagossian community . to give one example , the Chagos Refugees Group , often represent by Olivier Bancoult , be one of the large chagossian group . it have welcome the agreement . on the environment question , my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall ( Anna Gelderd ) mention the unique environment around the Chagos island . the most important marine environment need to be protect . while security be paramount , we have also secure a deal that will help protect the unique environment of the Chagos archipelago . there will be an enhanced partnership between the UK and Mauritius , under which the UK will support Mauritius ' s ambition to establish a marine protect area that protect the globally significant ecosystem in the Chagos archipelago . do my hon . friend the Minister agree that it be somewhat unfortunate that , after some consensus in the Prime Minister ' s statement yesterday on matter of national security , we be now see , sadly , Opposition member revert to type by flirt with populism on important issue ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I will conclude our debate — I be look at you , Madam Deputy Speaker — by say that — claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . question agree to . Main Question accordingly put . Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately Max Wilkinson Jeremy Wright Claire Young Ashley Fox James Wild Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Bambos Charalambous Ellie Chowns Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Martin McCluskey Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 147 , Noes 298 . question accordingly negative . business of the House Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Orders Nos . 15 and 41a ) , that , at this day ' s sit Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to estimate ( Liaison Committee Recommendation ) . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . business without Debate Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 145 ( 3 ) ) , Estimates ( Liaison Committee Recommendation ) that this House agree with the Report of the Liaison Committee of 25 February : that a day not later than 18 March be allot for the consideration of the following estimate for the financial year 2024 – 25 : Department for Health and Social Care ; Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ; and Department for Business and Trade . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Town and Country Planning that the draft Town and Country Planning ( fee for Applications , Deemed Applications , Requests and Site Visits ) ( England ) ( Amendment and Transitional Provision ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 January , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Constitutional Law that the draft Social Security ( Scotland ) Act 2018 ( Scottish Adult Disability Living Allowance ) ( Consequential Modifications ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 January , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . Petition - Repairs to Whitebarns Lane in Furneux Pelham I rise to present this petition on behalf of the resident of Furneux Pelham in my constituency , where Whitebarns Lane have be leave in a state of disrepair for year , despite be the only access road for many social housing tenant and other in the village . Hertfordshire county council have refuse to adequately maintain this road , force resident , include schoolchildren , the elderly and the disabled , to endure unsafe condition . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Hertfordshire County Council to ensure that a proportion of the £ 1 . 6bn in increase funding for pothole repair be use to repair and maintain Whitebarns Lane . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the village of Furneux Pelham , North East Hertfordshire , declare that Whitebarns Lane be the sole pedestrian and vehicle access for resident in social housing in Furneux Pelham ; however , it be unfit for purpose and have be in a near constant state of dangerous disrepair for many year as a result of Hertfordshire County Council ' s refusal to maintain the route as a road ; far declare that this refusal to carry out repair after many year of lobbying have lead to vulnerable resident of Whitebarns , include the disabled and elderly , suffer from fall and other injury ; and furthermore express dismay at the ongoing neglect and mis - treatment of social housing tenant in rural community . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Hertfordshire County Council to ensure that a proportion of the £ 1 . 6bn in increase funding for pothole repair be use to repair and maintain Whitebarns Lane and , to ensure that social housing tenant be never again place in a situation whereby they have no substantive access to the main highway , to urge the Government to take action to ensure that the development in Furneux Pelham and all future development have such access as standard . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003047 ] Child Maintenance Service Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) this evening I want to address a system that be fail thousand of family across our country : the Child Maintenance Service . in do so , I hope that this House will send a clear message to every parent struggle with that system and every affect young person that their mp be listen and that we be determined to act . I be pleased to see that the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , be respond for the Government , and I look forward to work with he to achieve the meaningful transformation that family desperately need . before my election last July , I confess that the Child Maintenance Service have not be on my radar as such an important issue . that change almost immediately upon my taking office , as constituent come to I with account of their experience with the CMS , and appeal for help . these be not isolate incident or minor inconvenience ; they reveal systemic failure , enforcement mechanism that seem to exist in name only , loophole exploit by those seek to evade their responsibility , inadequate protection for survivor of domestic abuse , and an impersonal bureaucracy that overwhelm those it should be there to help . failure to correct even basic error grind down those unfortunate enough to be let down by the system . I want to share one constituent ' s story that exemplify those failing . for nearly two decade , date back to the day of the old Child Support Agency , she have fight for what her child should have be entitle to . in all that time , her ex - partner have make consistent payment for just six month . after courageously leave an abusive relationship , she have turn to the CMS for support . instead , she encounter a system powerless to act when her ex - partner begin game the system . he claim to be unemployed while there be evidence that he be work . miss payment would coincide with birthday and Christmas , deprive she of the mean to make those occasion special for her child . he refuse to engage unless she contact he directly , know full well how traumatic that would be give the history of abuse . her mental health , understandably , deteriorate . yet in all her desperate call to the CMS , rarely do she speak to the same person twice — someone familiar with her case and invest in its resolution . in her word , support consist of someone " who read from a screen , then say they will transfer I to someone who can help but really just put I back in the queue . " she have spend year feeling that she be go around in circle , without receive all the payment that she should have receive for the care of her child . Madam Deputy Speaker , I hope that the Minister agree that this fall well short of what vulnerable family deserve . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . do he agree that we need more enforcement , more accurate assessment of non - resident parent income , and well join - up work between his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and the Department for Work and Pensions ? furthermore , if we see that , it would help not just his constituent , to whom he have refer so passionately , but parent such as my constituent whose ex - partner be avoid pay any ongoing child maintenance despite own multiple property . I absolutely agree ; that be exactly the sort of reform we need to see in the system , and I will come to those point later . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward this matter . I speak to he before the debate . I would love to say that thing be well in Northern Ireland , but they be not well one bit . hon . member can see that I have no hair , and one reason for that be that I find this matter incredibly stressful , and he have refer to thing that I and my staff deal with regularly . the statistic for Northern Ireland show that in March last year only 54 % of parent be pay more than 90 % of what they owe . that mean that 46 % of those who should be pay be not . it be quite clear to I that the system fall down . single - parent family be struggle . do he agree that we need a UK - wide overhaul to address such worrying statistic — not just in Northern Ireland , but everywhere in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I will come to the national statistic later in my speech , but those mention by the hon . Gentleman absolutely speak to the need for reform . the constituent I mention be far from alone , and it be not all one way , with pay parent often find themselves let down by the CMS too . another constituent have spend month battle the service after experience a genuine drop in income . despite provide every piece of documentation that he have be ask for , he have be leave wait and wait for an adjustment to his payment schedule . he say : " I receive a letter that say my request be not valid . no explanation be give . the letter say I would be refer to an unnamed team that could help I . almost two month later , I have receive no contact . " that be just another story that embody the failure at the CMS . I recently attend the parliamentary event host by Gingerbread , the charity for single - parent family , and the all - party parliamentary group on single - parent family . the testimony share that day echo many of the fundamental problem : enforcement failure , dehumanise customer service , the result financial hardship and , in too many case , continued abuse . I thank the hon . member for secure this important debate . I note that I be an officer of the APPG on single - parent family . the recent excellent report from Gingerbread on fix the CMS note that where child maintenance be pay , child poverty be 25 % low in those family . do he agree that Gingerbread ' s work be absolutely vital , but that it be also vital , as an important step towards solve the problem of child poverty , that we fix the Child Maintenance Service ? Gingerbread ' s report on fix the CMS be excellent . it have a lot of pointer and a lot of excellent statistic about how single - parent family be be let down . I will come on to some of those now . the Government ' s own child maintenance statistic paint a damn picture : 31 % of all pay parent make no maintenance payment whatsoever , and a further 12 % pay less than 60 % of what they owe . those be not just statistic ; they represent thousand upon thousand of child go without . I therefore ask the Minister directly : how do the Government intend to strengthen the CMS ' s enforcement power to prevent systemic abuse ? far , follow the recent consultation on improve payment collection and transfer , when can we expect to see the Government ' s response ? More than a million child nationwide depend on CMS arrangement . many of those child and their single - parent family lack the financial security they deserve and need . that bring I to the wide issue of child poverty . that be an area that this Government claim to prioritise , yet it be hard not to question the depth of that commitment when they have so far refuse to abolish the two - child benefit cap and when reform of the CMS seem barely to have feature in policy discussion . the evidence be stark . accord to save the child , almost half of all child in single - parent family live in poverty , compare with one in four child in two - parent household . Gingerbread ' s " fix the CMS " report reveal that over 50 % of parent not receive their entitle maintenance struggle to pay essential bill . nearly half can not afford basic necessity for their child , such as clothe , shoe and school uniform . it should be self - evident that any serious strategy to tackle child poverty must include fundamental reform of the CMS . what progress have be make on the Government ' s child poverty strategy , and have they give appropriate consideration to reform of the CMS ? the challenge for the CMS be numerous and complex , and they beg further question . will the Government consider review the CMS funding formula to ensure that it truly reflect the cost of raise a child ? will they commit to amend service charge , include the 4 % fee for receive parent who use collect and pay , and the initial £ 20 enrolment charge ? how can the Government improve staff recruitment , retention and training , to ensure that the workforce can properly support those who depend on this vital service ? those be just some of the question that the Government must consider if they want to reform the CMS . the answer will not be easy , so I thank the Minister in advance for his response , and Mr Speaker for grant this important debate . finally , I acknowledge the contribution and presence of all member who have stay for this debate . they understand the gravity of the issue . I hope the Minister be about to show we that the Government do too . let I begin by congratulate the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) on secure this debate , which be incredibly important to he and his constituent . I hope that I will assure he in my contribution that it be important to the Government too . far too many child be grow up in poverty . a key priority for this Labour Government be to reduce that number as soon as possible . that be why child maintenance be incredibly important . it be estimate that child maintenance payment keep around 160 , 000 child out of poverty each year . that have involve the CMS arrange around £ 1 . 4 billion in child maintenance payment in the 12 month to September 2024 . tackle child poverty be an urgent priority for the Government , which be why we have already announce our commitment to triple investment in breakfast club to over £ 30 million , to roll out free breakfast club at all primary school , to create 3 , 000 additional nursery and to increase the national living wage to £ 12 . 21 an hour from April to boost the pay of 3 million worker , many of they parent . the ministerial child poverty taskforce , to which the hon . Gentleman refer , be work to publish a child poverty strategy later this year , which will deliver last change . in develop the strategy , the taskforce be explore all available lever for reduce child poverty across four key theme : increase income , reduce essential cost , increase financial resilience and well local support , especially in the early year . the Minister mention that the taskforce would look at all option . would that include scrap the two - child benefit cap ? the hon . Member will have hear I say that we be look at all available lever across those four area . we rule nothing in and nothing out , but I understand his point . we be aware of the challenge that the CMS face and recognise that there be scope for improvement . the ministerial team as a whole be committed to make those improvement . on what we be do about those issue , I will turn to the recent direct pay consultation , which the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire refer to , and offer some background to the propose reform . my party have long call for reform to the direct pay service , state that it do not work for all parent . for that reason , this Government extend the direct pay consultation launch by the previous Government , with the express purpose of gathering as much feedback from stakeholder as possible . we be look closely at the feedback receive and will publish the Government response in due course . I appreciate that the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire would ask for a more specific timeline , but I hope he will appreciate that in what be an incredibly delicate area — deal with vulnerable child , vulnerable family and strained relationship — we want to take our time and ensure that we get the change right . my hon . friend will know that get it right for the most vulnerable child be important , but we be increasingly see post - separation abuse and post - separation financial abuse come to light . indeed , the report from Gingerbread that I cite early say that 45 % of people who report post - separation financial abuse say that it get bad when the CMS be involve . I hope that any report into the work of the CMS and support vulnerable family will look at that question and help we get some answer on that issue . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . he have a long history of work not just on CMS issue but on child poverty more broadly , and his expertise be of great value to the House . I will say a little more about domestic abuse and financial abuse later in my contribution , but I reassure he that the focus we have in the consultation on the propose abolition of direct pay be intend as a specific response to that issue . I have see appal example in case that have cross my desk as a Minister of people who can message their former partner in the form of a comment on a bank transaction . they will transfer a penny — they have a direct payment in place — along with an abusive term or some form of trigger harassment of a former victim of theirs . that show that while a parent may have move away from that unsafe and dangerous environment , they be never fully away when direct pay be engaged . rise — I can see the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) try to come in . I will beat he to it and give way . I thank the Minister . I expect that we will have a positive response from he to the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) and all the query , because that be what we get from the Minister we have in front of we . one of the thing that really frustrate I — it frustrate we all — be whenever one of my constituent come to I and say , " I get a different person every time I phone up . I have to tell they the same story over and over again , and then you go back two week later and the person you be speak to be away as well . " there must be some way in the Department for Work and Pensions that we can have a specific case officer who look after something , and they need to respond to that person . I know that the Minister understand these thing , but , honestly , it be so simple to sort out — at least , it seem to I to be simple . we really need something on behalf of all our constituent . I absolutely understand the point that the hon . Gentleman be make . with specific reference to name caseworker , initially for victim of domestic abuse , I will have something furth to say that I think he and all hon . member will welcome , but I take his more general point . if I may make some progress , turn to direct pay and domestic violence , financial abuse and so on , the proposal also seek view on collection fee and explore how victim and survivor of domestic abuse can be well support . that be so important give the issue raise by the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire and the case he cite of his constituent . overall , work be ongoing to establish the step need to really improve the service , take account of the view of parent . those will be set out in the response to the consultation . I appreciate that he would like that to be as soon as possible ; I will take that away . to drill down on the issue of domestic abuse , the scale of violence against woman and girl in our country be intolerable , and the Government will treat it as the national emergency that it be . our manifesto include the mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade — we be right to do so — and I and all Ministers be focus on make that a reality . if I may , I will therefore say a little about the support that should be available . if the hon . Member want to share specific detail of the case that he reference with I , I will take that away . the support that should be available be extensive and run contrary to what clearly happen in the case that he outline . we have oversee progress in provide support , with the continue roll - out of an operational team to deliver targeted support to parent subject to the most challenging and complex domestic abuse . the team provide a tailored and discrete service to customer , which be incredibly important , give regular progress update . they can and do assign a name caseworker to prevent customer have to re - tell their story at each interaction . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be say , that can be incredibly stressful for parent use the service . caseworker be train to identify and refer appropriate case within the collect and pay service to that team . more generally , the CMS consult on a diverse range of stakeholder to review its domestic abuse training for all frontline CMS staff to ensure that caseworker understand , recognise and respond appropriately to customer who be experience domestic abuse or who be survivor of domestic abuse . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way and I congratulate the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) on secure the debate . like he , I have have a number of people come to I with story of be ignore , let down or leave behind by this agency . the soon the failure of the agency be deal with , the well for people not just in my constituency but up and down the United Kingdom . with that in mind , will the Minister find time to meet I to talk about the specific example face by my constituent ? he touch on the point that this be an equality and safety issue . that be very much the situation in my patch for the people who come to my surgery . I would therefore be grateful , in the spirit he have approach the debate so far , if he could find time to meet I to discuss those point . I should have know that my hon . friend would be in his place . he be keen on an Adjournment debate — we all know that . this be where I out myself as an imposter , because I be not the Minister with direct responsibility for the CMS , but I be very happy to put he in touch with the Department ' s Minister in the House of Lords , who I be sure would be happy to have a conversation with he . turn back to the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire and the point he make about calculation reform , a broad review of the child maintenance calculation be be conduct . it be examine the scope for change and improvement , while maintain the simplicity of the calculation . it can be very frustrating for pay parent who be wait to have income reassess , and for receive parent when they be aware that a pay parent have receive a substantial income increase . the calculation at present generally look at income from the previous tax year and it be only when somebody ' s income have change with a divergence of more than 25 % in either direction that it trigger an in - year evaluation . we be look at way we can change that , while recognise that we need to encourage payment compliance and more sustainable arrangement in all that we do . the hon . Gentleman will be pleased to hear that the £ 20 application fee he refer to be remove in 2024 , get rid of a financial barrier to parent wish to access the CMS . proposal to include more type of taxable income hold by HMRC within the standard maintenance calculation be be consider , alongside the review of the child maintenance calculation . turn to enforcement — my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) also raise this issue — I can understand that for some receive parent there be frustration with how quickly the CMS secure payment from non - compliant pay parent . we have see significant improvement to speed up action when payment first break down and to target enforcement action more effectively . we be change the process at present to make direct deduction something we can do more swiftly where issue emerge . we have a range of strong enforcement power that can be use against those who consistently refuse to meet their obligation to provide financial support to their child , and in the past year to September 2024 the CMS have collect £ 16 . 8 million from pay parent with civil enforcement action in process . collection through civil enforcement have follow a general upwards trajectory in recent year . for comparison , the equivalent figure in 2021 be £ 10 . 3 million . I would like to finish by talk about the improvement to customer experience and digital service that the Department have be introduce . since 2020 , as part of the DWP service modernisation programme , the Department have transform the way in which customer can interact with the CMS , provide customer with the choice to make contact with digital route and reduce the time take to action change of circumstance . we continue to develop our digital offer , evaluate through user research and customer feedback , but we be commit to retain a non - digital telephony service to ensure that no customer be exclude . as I say early , I recognise that the hon . Gentleman be rightly impatient , as be other member , to see change and to see the detail of our reform package follow the conclusion of the recent consultation , but get the right solution will take a little time . it be right that the change that we make be properly consider and robust so that the CMS can continue to play not just an important role but an ever - more effective and increasingly important role in support child and tackle child poverty . question put and agree to . House adjourn .