let I rattle through the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s question . with regard to the matter cover in the precede statement , I be sure he will appreciate that , as there be an ongoing investigation — as you also say , Mr Speaker — I be limited in what I can say specifically . but I have be emphatically clear in our engagement with China that we will not accept any interference in our democracy and parliamentary system . that include the sanctioning of mps and malign activity such as the type of activity allege to have take place . I can absolutely confirm that the Foreign Secretary raise those issue on his recent visit , and I reinforce that in my meeting at the G20 . the right hon . and learn Gentleman go on to raise the announcement about the partnership for global infrastructure and investment . what he fail to mention in his criticism be that that initiative — the PGII — be create by the UK under our G7 presidency . far from be something that we be not part of , we be the one who make sure that we be there at its inception . again , he be , as ever , jump on the late bandwagon that he can find . the PGII initiative will contain a range of different project . this particular one be also not sign by Canada , Japan or Italy , for example . each and every country will participate in a range of project . what do we do to make our contribution ? as I say , we make the single large pledge this country have ever make to the green climate fund . why ? because it be important that we play our part in help country make the transition to net zero — something that we have lead on previously and , because of that commitment , we will continue to lead on . what else do we do ? we decide to work with other country to improve global food security , something that african nation in particular have call on we to do . they have welcome our leadership in host a summit later this year , which will tackle the cause at its root , improve crop yield and the resilience of food supply globally . I could go on . as ever , the right hon . and learn Gentleman try to find something to score a cheap political point , and completely and utterly misunderstand what this country be do . as ever , he would prefer to talk this country down than recognise the contribution we be make . I be happy to address the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s comment on the trade deal . I think they be tell — he ask , why do we not just sign it , why be it not do ? I have a flashback to all those conversation when we be leave the EU . his approach back then be just to sign any deal that be offer to we . we know where that would have lead . the right thing to do for the british people be to fight hard for the thing that we need . we only need a deal that work for the british people and deliver on our priority . that be why it be right not to rush these thing , as he would do , clearly . we do not put arbitrary deadline on they . I take the time to make sure that they be right for the british people . our track record be there : we be the first european nation to accede to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership — something else the right hon . and learn Gentleman fail to mention . that be the most exciting , dynamic trade bloc that exist in the world . the Asia - Pacific account for 50 % of the world ' s population . sixty per cent . of good trade pass through that region , and it will account for over half of global growth in the come decade . now that we have leave the EU , we be able to join that trade bloc , and it be excited to have we . lastly , on the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s point about Brexit , again he fail to point out that since we leave the single market we have grow fast than France and Germany . I will end where I start : as ever , when it come to these thing , he be determined to talk Britain down . we be demonstrate that Britain be lead on the global stage and deliver for the british people .