thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) . I congratulate she on a move maiden speech , and I hope to add another place on her bucket list . I be honour to have be elect as the first Liberal Democrat MP for North East Hampshire , a constituency that have have only two previous mps : James Arbuthnot — now Lord Arbuthnot in the other place — who be know for his important role in support Jo Hamilton and other sub - postmaster and postmistress ; and Ranil Jayawardena , who likewise want the good for our community and campaign for well infrastructure locally , alongside carry out his ministerial role . boundary change mean that those in Lychpit and Old Basing , who be warmly welcome into North East Hampshire , be previously represent by Dame Maria Miller in the Basingstoke constituency . she be a strong advocate for woman in Parliament and encourage those of all party . I be only the second woman to stand for Parliament in North East Hampshire , and only about 15 have stand before I in any of the constituency now cover by the current boundary , so it give I great pride to be in the Parliament with the high number of woman ever . that achievement would not have be possible without the support of my dad , my late mum , and my husband and child . North East Hampshire be a place that people often travel through : by train between London and the west country , or by road on the A30 or the M3 , stop perhaps at Fleet service . those who live there , however , enjoy good school , good transport link , low crime and plenty of countryside — all the reason , in fact , why the place often top the list of the good place to live in the UK , and why my family and I choose to move there 10 year ago . I encourage Members , the next time a journey take they that way , to stop and visit . if they wish to indulge their interest in political history , they could choose to stay at the Four Seasons . the hotel be situate in the former home of Sir Henry St John - Mildmay , the fifth Baronet of the Dogmersfield estate , who be also , coincidentally , a liberal political candidate in 1865 . or they might choose Highfield Park , where Neville Chamberlain spend his final month . once a visitor have arrive , there be plenty to experience . history enthusiast should visit Odiham castle , Basing House and the roman city wall at Silchester . those with a military interest will not be disappoint with a constituency that boast RAF Odiham ; Stratfield Saye House , the home of the Dukes of Wellington ; and Blackbushe airport , create as an airfield during the second world war . for nature lover , there be so much to choose from : the Hazeley Heath nature reserve , or a sturdy walk up Beacon hill to look out over Caesar ' s camp . if they like their nature by the water , there be Fleet pond , the Basingstoke canal and our two chalk stream , the Loddon and the Whitewater . after all that , perhaps they might be in need of refreshment . North East Hampshire be home to dozen of village pub , caf é s and bakery . from the award - win Street Bakery in Old Basing to the Heron on the Lake at Fleet Pond , look out over the water , there be something for everyone . we even have a local gin distil at Upton Grey . one of the joy of the area be that each town and village have its own personality , with a high number of independent business that make each one unique . a walk through Bramley be entirely different from a stroll along Hartley Wintney High Street or a meander through Yately . what unite all of these place be the people . each unique town or village have a strong sense of community , and the people of North East Hampshire be unfailingly generous with their time and energy in pursuit of this goal . this community spirit be see most recently when Hook infant school and local home and business be victim to a summer flash flood . People rally around , help clean up , raise fund , donate item , hosted friend whose home be damage and offer sympathy . it be in this way that all the community within North East Hampshire be connect . but this place that I love to call home be not without its challenge too . connect our town and village take more than good will . our road , particularly our small road , be in a terrible state , public transport leave a lot to be desire , and bus route be sparse at well . it be also surprising that North East Hampshire be behind the national average in the adoption of 5 g mobile service , especially when we consider the above - average employment in the technology sector — one that will be vital for the modernisation of both Government and our public service . the investment that be need to ensure join - up and efficient public service process be as vital as the investment need in North East Hampshire ' s transport . the UK have a proud history of research and innovation , but when nurse be still take patient note with pen and paper , it be clear that action be need . indeed , the National Audit Office ' s report only last year state that " outdated IT system … be a key source of inefficiency " in Government . we can not be a country need to catch up , and I hope that the Government will draw on the expertise of those in the technology sector to quickly implement the good possible solution , while ensure that individual ' personal information be hold with the high possible security . I also encourage the Government , in their review of technology in public service , to consider the role that charity play in support the sector . the tireless work of organisation such as Citizens Advice and the Trussell Trust , as well as countless local and regional charity , be the bedrock of our community . such organisation support the public sector to deliver many vital service across health , education , housing , criminal justice and more . in my view , it be essential that those organisation be also invest in , and integrate into , the new system that will be create . I look forward to work with those local organisation , those business and the people in North East Hampshire , and I thank they for put their trust in I . it be a privilege to make my maiden speech today , and to follow the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) and my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) ; I congratulate they on their move maiden speech . they bring their constituency to life vividly , and I hope I can do the same . I be proud to be the Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament for Norwich North , and my first message be one of thank to the people of Norwich North for put their faith in I ; however you vote , I be here to serve you . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Chloe Smith , who serve Norwich North for 15 year as a Minister and Secretary of State , include for science and innovation , and of course as a constituency MP . like I , Chloe be a Norfolk girl ; we go to nearby secondary school , and I know that one of her passion be open up opportunity for young people , which be something else we share . the last Labour Member of Parliament for Norwich North be Dr Ian Gibson , a fierce advocate for our community . it be apt that I be make my speech in this debate , give his passion for science and innovation , and I be pleased to say that a new fellowship be be set up in his name at the Quadram Institute in Norwich : the Invest in ME Research Ian Gibson fellowship . I also follow in the footstep of Dorothy Jewson , elect in 1923 to represent Norwich , and one of the first three labour woman mps . she be know for action to tackle poverty , and be key to the creation of many of Norwich ' s beautiful park . she be also note for refuse to wear a hat in the Chamber . I fully agree with she when she say that woman be not in Parliament to discuss dress or millinery , but to do something . do something be what I intend to do . my priority be shape by what I have hear from my constituent . that be why I will fight for well health , well home , good education and decent job , and fight to tackle the big crisis we face : the cost of living and the climate crisis . I could not be prouder to come from Norfolk . I grow up in a rural Norfolk village and have make my home in Norwich North . the constituency spread from the northern reach of the city — from the estate of Mile Cross and Heartsease , the pub of NR3 and our amazing green space , such as Mousehold Heath and Waterloo Park — and into the Broadland area , comprise Sprowston , Thorpe St Andrew , Old Catton , Hellesdon and Drayton , each of which have their own unique identity . as many other member have say , our strength come from our active and vibrant community . local organisation , volunteer and parish and town council bring so much to our area — organisation such as the Hellesdon dementia support group , which I visit just last week , the Sprowston youth engagement project , the many food bank and community hub , and the environmental organisation work to protect nature . the well - know landmark in Norwich , from the magnificent cathedral to the castle , may be in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , but Norwich North have many unique attribute , and many thing that can provide inspiration to our government , and I will touch on just a few today . we be home to Norwich airport , from which I fly this summer . that be convenient , but the airport be also a key driver of economic growth . it be pioneer green aviation , with the first all - electric pleasure flight launch last year from Norwich airport . we be also home to one of the first large - scale social housing estate in the country , Mile Cross , which mark its centenary just last year . when it be build , there be a desperate need for home , and that remain the case today , when we need social and affordable housing in particular . on the many industrial estate , we can find example after example of small and medium - sized business harness creativity , innovation and provide much - need job . beyond the boundary of Norwich North , there be a huge life science cluster at Norwich research park , which be relevant to this debate . to give just one example , scientist from the park be work closely with the UK Health Security Agency and the Food Standards Agency to harness the power of microbiology to protect our food supply . the same technology be use during the pandemic to identify covid variant for the Government . I thank the Secretary of State for visit Norwich just this year with Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales to meet student and staff from Norwich University of the Arts , which be provide so much inspiration to many of the innovator of the future . we be also home to the Canaries — Norwich City — and reportedly the old football chant in the world , " on the ball , City " . my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) be sadly not in the Chamber today , but I want to remind he that while we do not make it to the premier league , in the time it take oasis to break up and reform , Ipswich have still not beat the Canaries . I will remind he of that when I see he . I will also mention the great woman ' s football we have in Norfolk and Norwich . in fact , just a few week ago I go to the opening of the Lauren Hemp community pitch in Broadland constituency . for all its advantage , Norwich North face many challenge . three in 10 kid live in poverty , thousand be on the housing waiting list , we be a dental desert and too many child , particularly those with special educational need and disability , do not receive the education that they deserve . that must change . as important as what I intend to fight for be how I do it . time and again , people tell I that they be sick of we shout at each other , and of adversarial politic . Norfolk be now a rainbow county ; anyone who see the election result will know that we have practically every single party represent . I promise to work with everyone and anyone who want to get the good for our area . I also note Norwich ' s long history as a place of refuge . it be officially a city of sanctuary and a tolerant , welcome place , and I know that will continue . after the event of this summer , that be more important than ever . I be proud to stand here as a Labour and Co - operative woman MP . my path into politic be inspire by many woman , start with my mother , who be still persevere in the Gallery up there , and I thank she for that , as well as for the inspiration she provide to I as a local councillor ; she show I the difference that politic can make . I want to thank my family , my dad , my twin sister , my friend and my partner for all their support . I be privileged to have work for the former Member of Parliament for Camberwell and Peckham , Harriet Harman , who teach I so much about politic — about stick to one ' s principle , take on the most difficult of challenge and always , always say thank you . I join this House after year of work in international development , have work in some of the poor country of the world , and also year of serve community as a councillor . in everything I have do , from the local to the global , I have focus on fight inequality and injustice , open up opportunity , bring people together to find solution and work through difference . that be the approach that I will continue to take : to stand up for opportunity , to stand against inequality in Norwich North , nationally and internationally , and always to focus on what unite we . in conclusion , I want to finish as I begin , with a message for the people of Norwich North : your home be my home , and I pledge to give it my all — to stand up for you , for our fine city and for our great county .