Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — Artificial Intelligence whether she plan to bring forward legislative proposal to regulate the use of artificial intelligence . whether she plan to bring forward legislative proposal to regulate the use of artificial intelligence . whether she plan to bring forward legislative proposal to regulate the use of artificial intelligence . our White Paper set out how we will regulate AI through a flexible framework underpin by five principle . this proportionate and adaptable approach have be welcome by british business . it include new monitoring function allow we to update our approach in response to a rapidly evolve technology . the Government will come back with proposal in the autumn follow the White Paper consultation . AI have be use by public authority in a wide range of context that affect individual right , from facial recognition technology use by police to the system use by the Department for Work and Pensions to investigate benefit claimant . do the Secretary of State agree that public trust in the state of AI be essential and that any change to the law will require public support and , therefore , great consultation to ensure that that trust be not undermine ? the hon . Gentleman make a thoughtful point . he be right that we need a comprehensive public debate on many of these point . he name some risk that concern he . I would marry those with consideration about opportunity . for example , my colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions be also look at how the technology can help with job matching and ensure that people have information about the job market . I look forward to further conversation , as he say , as we go forward with this critical technology . follow call from the SNP , the Minister for the Indo - Pacific , the right hon . member for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) , agree that human right must be at the forefront of AI diplomacy . will the new UK law on AI protect people by outlaw any collaboration or research with nation that seek to abuse human right through , for example , facial recognition or social credit system ? the hon . Gentleman also make a thoughtful point , which be an important consideration in all our diplomacy and the work that my colleague in the Foreign Office take forward . specifically on AI technology , domestically we have set out our proposal in our White Paper , which as we have say will evolve over time , and internationally we be clear that we see a leadership opportunity for the United Kingdom , because we be already a global leader in this technology and care passionately about ensure its safe and responsible deployment . researcher at Robust Intelligence recently discover that AI could be train to bypass its in - build restriction and privacy protection within hour of use . despite grow concern about the impact of AI , the Government be expand the scope of automated decision making as part of their Data Protection and Digital Information ( no . 2 ) bill . can the public have confidence that sensitive personal datum will be protect as the Government ' s use of AI grow ? the short answer be yes . that be because , first , the legislation that the hon . Lady mention focus on do that . in addition , in our White Paper we set out the principle on which we intend to take advantage of AI , which ensure that we have safety , transparency , explainability , fairness , accountability and governance , and contestability and redress . those be all vital , as I know she will agree , and there be much work ahead of we . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . I congratulate the Secretary of State on her sure - footed discharge of her responsibility over the past few week , which I think end today . in the White Paper , there be a commitment that " when parliamentary time allow … we will … strengthen and clarify regulator ’ mandate by introduce a new duty require they to have due regard to the principle " of the White Paper . give the blistering pace of AI deployment and the fact that the forthcoming king ' s Speech will be the last opportunity until 2025 , will the Government confirm that they will bring forward that legislation in the next session ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his kind word about I . my right hon . friend the Member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) will return later this week . it have be a privilege to help she by conduct her maternity cover at the high level . my right hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee be correct that we set out that plan in our White Paper . we say that we anticipate introduce a statutory duty on regulator " require they to have due regard to the principle " , which I mention in my previous answer . he will also know that I can not commit to the content of the King ' s Speech , but what I have already say this morning be that the Government will be return to the House with a full update on the conclusion of the consultation on the White Paper . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend ' s leadership in this policy area . the conference in the autumn will give the Government an opportunity to lay out their plan for work with international partner . do she agree that AI can not be block or stop , and therefore an open , pragmatic approach need to be show to harness the benefit of AI for the economy and society in general ? my right hon . friend be correct . that be what we have lay out in our approach so far . as the Prime Minister say , we intend to lead overseas and domestically , lead the charge of that opportunity in our public service and ensure that our pro - innovation approach enable the benefit of this technology to be capture soon across the economy . be my right hon . friend reassure by the comment make by Nick Clegg this morning , while represent Meta , that AI at present be not capable of individual thought as such , but go through a massive trawl very quickly of exist datum ? we be draw on the benefit of a range of expert in our work . in particular , I thank Ian Hogarth and those who have step up to form our Foundation Models Taskforce , which be help we by look extremely closely at the safety requirement for those model at the very frontier . there will be more update on that work as time go on . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State will surely have read the many report of bad actor use AI technology to create voice clone and , ultimately , scam victim out of money over the phone . for as little as 76p a month , a subscription to one of those website can be yours , Mr Speaker . computer security company McAfee recently find that one in four people have experience a voice scam or know someone who have . what exactly be the Secretary of State do right now to prevent and , ultimately , protect people from those voice scam and deepfake ? the shadow Minister raise a good point , which we should all examine . we have the correct answer , through the approach we have set out in our White Paper use our world - class regulator , the approach we be work on in this House and the other place on the Online Safety Bill , and exist crime and offence . right now , my official be work with Ofcom to ensure it be ready for the duty that will come to it through the Online Safety Bill , and that it have the tool to ensure that scam , fraud and other offence be properly address . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the Secretary of State say that my colleague have make thoughtful point about human right concern , control of personal datum and public trust , but we need actual action and commitment from the Government . in contrast , the EU be move to become the first regulator in the world to legislate for a specific AI Act , to ensure that AI work for people as well as business and Government . will she finally commit to the UK follow suit and legislate for AI , to ensure that the UK do not become a haven for the bad possible application of what should be beneficial technology ? the hon . Gentleman be tell the wrong story . the UK Government be act comprehensively . the framework we set out in our White Paper apply across the UK . the work we be set out with our global summit lead the way internationally . that approach be proportionate and flexible , and have be welcome by business across the UK . in addition , the principle I have already name and the work of my colleague across Government on human right and other aspect ensure that our citizen can enjoy the safe and responsible use of this technology . I look forward to work with anyone in this House who have a thoughtful approach to take to that . Decarbonisation Technologies what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of UK Research and Innovation funding for decarbon - isation technology . we can all be proud that this country be lead the global charge on net zero . as part of our historic uplift in R & D expenditure to £ 20 billion a year — £ 52 billion over the consolidated spending review period — UK Research and Innovation be invest in £ 800 million annually on research and innovation in net zero , and £ 210 million through the industrial decarbon - isation fund . I be delighted that Scotland be in the vanguard , with more than 1 , 400 project fund , in receipt of £ 1 . 3 billion . the Faraday battery challenge investment of £ 540 million appear to be work , with the good news today of Tata ' s multibillion investment in a £ 4 billion gigafactory . I be delighted to hear the Minister acknowledge that Scotland be in the vanguard of research in this area . the Industrial Decarbonisation Research and Innovation Centre at Heriot - Watt University in my constituency have become a focal point of collaboration and innovation for UK industrial cluster , but the excellent progress that it be make be at risk owe to a funding gap . will the Minister meet I to discuss the vital work be do at Heriot - Watt University , and how the Government can support it well in its effort to help they to reach their industrial decarbonisation target ? Brevity , Mr Speaker : yes , with pleasure . broadband : Rural Wales if she will take step to improve rural connectivity in ( a ) Delyn constituency , ( b ) north Wales and ( c ) Wales . under Project Gigabit , we be launch procurement across Wales and the rest of the UK to deliver gigabit - capable broadband to rural and remote premise not include in supplier ' commercial plan . we be plan to launch a regional procurement for north Wales by the end of the year , which will include premise in my hon . friend ' s constituency . the town of Flint and Holywell in my constituency have 90 % and 83 % full - fibre connectivity respectively , but the exchange in Mold have only 10 % , and Northop only 2 . 6 % . the Mold exchange in particular serve many of the small village and also the farming community , which be vital to my constituency . what more can the Minister do to improve connectivity in these rural area so that the vital farming sector do not grind to a halt in place such as Delyn ? my hon . friend be right to stress the importance of digital connectivity to rural community and business . we be press ahead apace with Project gigabit , and have appoint our hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) as rural connectivity champion . at present , more than 98 % of premise in Delyn have access to superfast broadband , while 62 % have a gigabit - capable network , and our Project Gigabit procurement be intend to ensure that community such as Northop and Mold do not miss out on gigabit - capable connection . Horizon Europe what recent progress she have make on secure the UK ' s association with Horizon Europe . what recent progress she have make on secure the UK ' s association with Horizon Europe . what her plan timescale be for negotiate the UK ' s association to Horizon Europe . we be move forward with discussion on the UK ' s involvement in Horizon Europe , and we hope they will be successful . association be our preference . the talk be continue constructively , but we have not yet agree a deal . we want to reach a resolution as quickly as possible to give the industry certainty . we have also set out our bold alternative , Pioneer , which we be ready to implement if necessary . owe to the Government ' s delay in associate with Horizon Europe , the UK have lose out on " host " nearly 400 high - end European Research Council grant . furthermore , nearly 50 grant winner have leave the country altogether . scientist include Brian Cox and Sir Paul Nurse be warn that the Government ' s failure to act be damage Britain ' s science base . be the Secretary of State concerned about these failing ? unfortunately it be the European Union that have delay for more than two year , and that have cause serious and lasting damage to the UK ' s participation . what we need to do be ensure that we can get the right deal for UK researcher , UK business and UK taxpayer . that that be what we be work to do , and we be confident that the talk be proceed constructively . it be much more important to get the right deal than to get a fast deal . the Government make a manifesto promise to associate with Horizon Europe , but it be now 132 week since they take our country out of the world ' s big science fund . it be shocking but not surprising that they have break yet another promise . government inaction have seriously damage our international science pedigree . how much long will our world - lead scientist , researcher and university — who have suffer so much already — be force to wait because this government can not keep their promise ? we have continue to support the sector with more than £ 1 . 5 billion of the Horizon guarantee . we have do that to ensure that there be no loss of funding for the UK science sector . I think it far more important to speak directly to researcher , business and taxpayer about our commitment to get the right deal than to engage in party politic here . we in Bath have two fantastic university , the University of Bath and Bath Spa University . their leader continue to worry about lose talent from Europe , and the Government have worsen the position by propose a 66 % increase in visa fee . will the Secretary of State explain what that increase will mean for UK science , and how it accord with the Government ' s state ambition to bring the good and brightest to this country ? we continue to run a range of successful talent programme that bring the good and the bright to university and indeed to those in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . I welcome she represent they here today . the point be that we have to get the right deal on Horizon , as I have lay out , and we also have to strike a balance with the need of policy across Government . that be what she have hear from I and other Ministers at this Dispatch Box , and that be how we will ensure that we get the right deal for Britain , both in term of talent and of science programme . do my right hon . friend agree that it be very much in Europe ' s interest for we to be part of the Horizon programme , because we have some of the strong academic institution in Europe , and in a way it undermine the science base of Europe if we be not in there ? do she also recognise that , although there be great enthusiasm at the recent meeting of the UK - EU Parliamentary Partnership Assembly for we to join again , there be also a feeling that it could surely be do a little more quickly ? I welcome my right hon . and learn Friend ' s insight into this issue . as I have already say , we be work consistently and steadily to get the right deal for UK science , by which we mean british researcher as well as taxpayer and business . that be what we be do ; the talk be proceed and I look forward to the House be able to have an update very soon . I would like to put on record my respect for the Secretary of State and her excellent stewardship of her portfolio . I would like we to join Horizon Europe , but be it not right that we should get the right deal for our UK scientist , our UK business and our UK taxpayer , and that any commentary before a deal be do will only undermine our science industry and not be helpful in the slight ? that be exactly right , and it be right for two reason . the first be that billion of pound of taxpayer ' money be at stake and we need to be responsible steward of that money . that be why we be focus on get the right deal . the second point be that my Department exist to forward and far the frontier of science in this country and to make sure that we stay a science and technology superpower . [ interruption . ] order . we be in the middle of answer to a question . I call Vicky Ford . Teledyne e2v be the world leader in space imaging . it provide the eye to NASA , the european space programme and Copernicus . can my great and right hon . friend make sure that our conversation about Horizon also include Copernicus ? otherwise , the EU be go to be build Earth observation satellite that can not see the Earth . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s interest in this area , and she be absolutely right to say that we have enormous opportunity in our space sector , across a range of aspect . I know that the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , would like to discuss her constituency interest far with she . I can also assure the House that there will be far update come soon on the UK Government ' s space strategy . I call the shadow Minister . in Vilnius , the Prime Minister have the chance to conclude a deal allow our scientist to participate in the world ' s big international science programme , drive innovation and sustainable growth . he do not take it , again , so the Horizon saga drag on , month after month , year after year . be we in or be we out ? the Science Minister be not in the negotiation , and the chief scientist be not in the negotiation . it be all about the Prime Minister . do the Secretary of State understand that while the Prime Minister be dither , our science base be wither ? today be quite possibly my last opportunity at the Dispatch Box . I first serve from these Government Benches in May 2010 , and the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) first shadow I 10 year ago . I know that she have a very fine mind and be a dedicated public servant . however , on this she be wrong . Labour Front Benchers may not know from one day to the next what their policy be , but we have be consistent on this point and we be work hard to get the correct deal for UK taxpayer and UK science . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . since I last update the House , my right hon . friend the Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure have announce £ 380 million of funding to bring the fast internet speed to some of our most rural community . the Government ' s Office for Life Sciences have agree a landmark deal with biontech that will see up to 10 , 000 cancer patient benefit from potentially life - save treatment . today , my Department have launch a call for evidence on engineering biology . what action be the Government take to deliver regulatory reform and business investment in the bioscience sector , so that it can play its part in boost economic growth and deliver great job opportunity for people across the country ? I welcome my right hon . friend ' s expertise in this area , and I thank the team that work with I on this subject , include my hon . friend the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation , who have be central in lead how we will reform our regulatory landscape on life science . I point my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) to the Chancellor ' s announcement , both at the Budget and still to come , on how we will continue to support our life science and bioscience sector , which be essential to the UK economy . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for her time cover this role , notwithstanding her answer to my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) , who ask a very important question . today ' s inflation figure confirm that price continue to rise . broadband customer be deal with inflation - bust price hike , as a direct result of the Government ' s choice . they lift the cap on wholesale cost , which have cause retail price to rise . will the Secretary of State apologise to hard - press family and tackle the cost of live crisis for broadband customer ? we recognise that household be have a very difficult time due to the cost of living , which be why my right hon . friend the Chancellor have meet the regulator to press they to do more to help . we have agreement that social tariff be now available to all those in receipt of universal credit and other benefit . at the same time , Ofcom have agree with provider that anybody who wish to switch to a cheap tariff can do so without charge . there can be few more exciting and innovative project for any constituency than a spaceport to launch satellite into space . we have a do deal to build one on the runway at RAF Scampton , before the Home Office march in and stymie the whole project . will the Minister please lobby the Home Office to try to get the spaceport back ? why would the Home Office want a runway , or be there a dark purpose behind this ? my right hon . friend have raise this before , and I will happily speak to he about it and support that space cluster . the UK be poise to lead Europe in the launch of low Earth orbit satellite over the come decade , and we be build launchpad around the country for that very purpose . the Royal Society ' s 2021 visa cost analysis show that researcher enter the UK via the global talent scheme have to pay six time more than they would have pay under similar international science scheme . do the Minister acknowledge the cost of Brexit in our failure to attract world - lead researcher and skilled worker ? the hon . Gentleman be on his own mission . he fail to see the strength of the UK science and technology sector , and he fail to see that it will be well for Scotland ' s business , scientist and citizen to continue to be part of that thriving sector . that be what we be do in make sure the United Kingdom be a science and technology superpower . indeed , we have world - class university in the west midland . what plan do my right hon . friend have to support regional innovation cluster ? my hon . friend make an important point . we be invest heavily in regional innovation cluster all around this country . we have three : one in Manchester , one in Glasgow and one in the west midland , where the excellent Mayor , Andy Street , be drive a genuine innovation economy . almost one in two property in my constituency , and less than one in five in rural area , do not have access to gigabit broadband . they do not even have superfast connection . the Department must help property get connect where profit incentive be low . will the Minister provide an update on the gigabit voucher scheme and the total value of voucher claim this year ? currently , more than 76 % of premise have access to gigabit - capable broadband and we be on track to meet our target of 85 % coverage by 2025 . however , the hon . Lady raise a good point about the take - up of social tariff under the scheme and we want to see that happen much more . we be determined to press ahead with Project Gigabit to achieve our target of universal coverage by 2030 . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 19 July . the ban on LGBT people serve in our military until the year 2000 be an appalling failure of the british state — it be decade behind the law of this land . as today ' s report make clear , in that period many endure the most horrific sexual abuse and violence , homophobic bullying and harassment , all while bravely serve this country . today , on behalf of the british state , I apologise , and I hope that all those affect will be able to feel proud part of the veteran community , which have do so much to keep our country safe . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . may I associate myself with the remark the Prime Minister just make ? in the UK , sadly , every 90 minute someone take their own life . indeed , for man under the age of 50 and for woman under the age of 35 , this be now the big killer . when I be the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , I meet many brave family and campaigner , and I commit to they that the Government would publish a comprehensive , cross - departmental suicide prevention strategy . that be more than a year ago and still there be no strategy . I know that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister care as deeply about this issue as I do ; we have discuss it many time . will he please commit his government to publish the strategy within day of Parliament ' s return from the summer recess ? when someone take their own life , the effect on their family and friend be devastating . I know that the loss of my right hon . friend ' s own brother be an enormous source of pain for he . I want to reassure he that we be actively address suicide rate , through our national suicide prevention strategy , back by funding , and , in particular , by roll out 100 suicide prevention voluntary community and social enterprise . I can tell he that we will publish the new update national suicide prevention strategy later this year . I call the Leader of the Opposition . labour in government be proud to repeal the ban on LGBT + people serve in our armed force , and today we strongly welcome this apology from the Prime Minister as a recognition of their historic mistreatment . my constituent Ken Wright be a proud RAF serviceman who be force to leave the job he love simply because he be gay . I be delighted that he be here today to witness this apology . although we can not right the wrong of the past , the Government should now act on the recommendation of the Etherton review to fix the life break by the ban — it be what LGBT + veteran deserve . I also know that the whole House will want to send our very good wish to the Lionesses as they start their World cup campaign this Saturday . let we hope they continue the brilliant success they have in the Euros . when the Prime Minister take office nine month ago , the NHS waiting list have 7 . 2 million people on it . what be the number today ? the reason that NHS waiting list be high today than they be then , after actually be stable for the first few month as we put in place new initiative , be very simple : because the NHS have be disrupt by industrial action . we have put very clear plan in place to bring down waiting list in urgent and emergency care , primary care , ambulance , out - patient and elective . those plan be work and will continue to work , but we do need to end the industrial action . so I would ask the right hon . and learn Gentleman , if he do care about bring the waiting list down , do he agree with I that consultant and junior doctor should accept the pay deal that the Government offer ? Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] order . the Prime Minister like to get away early , but the long member stop I get on with the question , the long I be go to keep he here , so it be up to they . I be sure the whole House be pleased that the Prime Minister have grace we with his presence today , but we do not get any more answer when he be here than when he be not . he know the answer : 7 - point million people be currently on the waiting list . that be the high it have ever be . it mean that since he set foot into Downing Street , 260 , 000 people have be wait in daily agony for thing like hip and knee replacement , while he boast . have he figure out why , after nine month , dozen of gimmick and umpteen broken promise , his Government be fail more patient than ever before ? Mr Speaker , again , I do not think we hear an answer to the question , so — [ interruption . ] order . I also do not want Opposition Members hold up proceeding . it be very simple . if the right hon . and learn Gentleman actually look at what be happen , he would see that early this year our plan be begin to work : ambulance wait time down , from an hour and a half over Christmas to around half an hour ; virtually eliminate the number of people wait one and half year for treatment ; make huge progress on GP access . all those thing — all those plan we put in place , all the funding , all the extra ambulance , the extra discharge — be start to make a difference , but all be hold up by one very simple fact : industrial action in the NHS . again , I will give he a second chance : if he really want to get people the healthcare they want , will he agree with I that those doctor should accept the recommendation of the independent pay review body ? [ interruption . ] order . this would be a bad time to get throw out — it be six week , so think long and hard . I just say to the Prime Minister : this be Prime Minister ' s question , not opposition question . Mr Speaker , I think that , give his time away , the Prime Minister have slightly forget how this work . he talk about his NHS staffing plan , but he doesn ' t need to lecture I — [ interruption . ] order . this might be the last Prime Minister ' s question before recess , but let I just say to somebody that if they really want to go early , it will be very tempting to ensure that happen , so they should think long and hard beforehand . the Prime Minister talk about his plan , but he do not need to lecture I on that . on the NHS staffing plan , he nick it from Labour . it be the same old story : they mess up the NHS and look to Labour to fix it . come the election , the country will be do the same . the difference be that , unlike we , he have not say how he would pay for his workforce plan . now be his chance . where be the money come from ? not only be the NHS long - term workforce plan fully fund , but it be welcome by not one , not two , but 43 different nhs stakeholder . the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about our plan and whether they be make a difference , so let we just look at urgent and emergency care . our plan mean that we will put 800 more ambulance on the road , and there will be 5 , 000 more bed , fast discharge and more community care . that be why the Royal College of Emergency Medicine describe it as " significant " and say that it " would undoubtedly improve condition " . that be why we have see a & E waiting time in England the good in two year , while — the opposition will not like this — the NHS have the bad waiting time in the country in Wales . when the Prime Minister say that the workforce plan be fully cost , I have never see the Chancellor look more bewildered . it be less than a year since his party crash the economy with its unfunded spending commitment , and he have not learn a thing . let I ask this another way : be his uncosted spending come from more tax rise , more cut , or be it just the late promise to fall from the Tories ' magic money tree ? as I and the Chancellor set out , the plan be fully fund — the right hon . and learn Gentleman will see that at the autumn statement . I be pleased that he be now interested in fiscal responsibility , because that be very welcome . there be an opportunity for we to make sure that this be true conviction . we have just have , in the past week , the recommendation of independent pay review body , include for the NHS . I believe that the right thing to do be to accept those independent recommendation , but that involve take difficult and responsible decision to deliver those pay rise without fuel borrowing , inflation , taxis and debt . but , yet again , on this crucial issue , while his mp be back on the picket line , he simply refuse to take a position . it be the same old story . he should stop take inspiration from his friend outside and unglue himself from the fence . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] you want some more ? who want to lead the exit ? in that burst of nonsense , what we do not hear be a single word about how the Prime Minister will pay for it . labour ' s NHS workforce plan be fully fund by scrap the non - dom status that he so adore . you know the one , Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] order . I think that one or two of you have ask to catch my eye . you be not go about it in the right way . labour ' s workforce plan be fully fund by scrap the non - dom status that the Prime Minister so adore . you know the one , Mr Speaker : the " non - dom tax thing " , as he call it , that allow some of the wealthy people in the country to avoid pay tax here . be that loophole so important to he that he would rather have billion in unfunded promise than simply make billionaire pay what they owe ? that be the same policy that have pay , I think , for five different thing at this point . everybody know that I be a fan of do math to 18 , but the right hon . and learn Gentleman make a very strong case for do math all the way to 61 . when it come to the substance of the plan , it be important that we address this . I be aware — I will say this — that he do set out some proposal to train more staff . the problem be that that be all he do . our plan be much more comprehensive and much more impactful . not only will we train more staff — [ interruption . ] this be important substance . I acknowledge that the Labour party do set out some plan to train more , but that be not enough . you also have to set out plan to retain more NHS staff , as we do , and , crucially , you also have to set out plan for how you reform the NHS , so that you can have a more productive NHS . that be the difference between we : he be only ever focus on the superficial headline , while we be get on with the actual reform . if the Prime Minister be so good at math , he will know that I be 60 , not 61 . I do not know whether he have find time during the recent by - election to visit Hillingdon Hospital , where the ward have have to close , staff be work in appalling condition and patient safety be at risk , and that be simply a snapshot of the wide problem . this week , the National Audit Office set out in detail what everyone already know : the Government ' s hospital programme have , shall we say , some gap in it . so can the Prime Minister confirm that , apart from the fact that there be not 40 of they , that most of they be not new , and that many of they be not even hospital , everything be go fine with the 40 new hospital ? not only be we go to deliver on our manifesto commitment to build 40 new hospital across the country by 2030 , we be not stop there ; we be also deliver 100 hospital upgrade across the country , and crucially more than 100 new community diagnostic centre to speed up treatment for people , include in the constituency of the deputy Leader of the Opposition , and the constituency of the shadow Work and Pensions Secretary , the shadow Energy Secretary , the shadow Justice Secretary and the shadow Attorney General . that be how committed we be . let I end on this . the Leader of the opposition mention Hillingdon Hospital in Uxbridge . I want to help the people of this country . I want to make sure that not only can they get to work but they get the care that they need . why on earth do he want to charge they £ 12 . 50 every time they visit their gp and hospital ? there be welcome news this morning of inflation fall by more than expect . business in my constituency be try to plan their pricing for next January and be struggle because of the proposal to introduce the extend producer responsibility . they do not yet have the information on how much it will cost or how it will work . will the Prime Minister look at pausing and reset that programme , so that in January we do not see price rise in our supermarket without the consequent reduction in packaging and increase in recycle that we all want to see ? this be something that have be raise with I by those in the industry . we be committed to protect the environment and deliver on our net zero target , but the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be continue to engage closely with manufacturer , retailer and packaging company on the precise design of the scheme . I know that Ministers will continue to keep this House and my hon . Friend update . I call the leader of the SNP . the two - child benefit cap introduce by the conservative party have leave 250 , 000 child live in poverty . do the Prime Minister take comfort in know that the heinous legacy of that policy will no long be protect just by Conservative Members but by Labour Members too ? I welcome the labour leader ' s new - find support for our policy , even though he previously commit to a different approach . what I would say to the hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , and indeed the Labour Front Bench , be that they do not have to worry too much give the Labour leader ' s track record : he have never actually keep a promise that he have make . voter in Scotland be use to child poverty under the Tories — they almost expect it — but they do not expect child poverty support from the Labour party . if we look very closely right now , there be a shiver run along the Labour Front Bench look for a spine . [ interruption . ] do this not tell we something much big : that for child live in poverty in Scotland , Westminster offer they no real change and no real hope ? the good route out of poverty be through work , and the good way to ensure that child do not grow up in poverty be to ensure that they do not grow up in a workless household . that be why we be focus on create more job , with 200 , 000 more in Scotland since 2010 and hundred of thousand few child across the United Kingdom grow up in a workless household . we will always continue to reduce child poverty . I do not want to see a single child grow up in poverty , and we will deliver that in every part of the UK , include in Scotland . do my right hon . friend agree that if Opposition member be in favour of illegal economic migration , they should have the courage to say so , rather than claim that young man in their 20 and 30 , arrive here from safe country , be actually asylum seeker ? my right hon . friend be right that the opposition do not have a plan to tackle illegal migration . we see that just this last week , when I think they vote over 70 different time against our stop the boat Bill . that Bill will make it crystal clear that if you come here illegally , you will be detain and swiftly remove to a safe third country . that be the fair , compassionate and right way to deal with this problem , and that be what we believe in . it be exactly a year to the day since UK temperature hit a deadly 40 ° c for the first time , with 3 , 000 excess death last summer . yet business and the Prime Minister ' s own climate adviser have say that his climate progress be worryingly slow . he like to claim that the UK be decarbonise more quickly than the rest of the G7 , but since the Paris agreement that be simply not true . he also like to claim that it be not a top concern for the public , while recent polling show that that be not true either . expert , business and the public all want bold climate action , but it be not even one of his top five priority . can he tell we why not ? the hon . Lady just make a completely bizarre point . because we move quick and fast than everyone else , she think that somehow that be something we should now not be proud of . it be right that other country be catch up ; it be inevitable that they will have to decarbonise fast now to make up for the fact that over the past two decade they have not follow our example . I be not go to take any lecture from she on this topic , because our track record be a good one . we have decarbonise fast than everyone else and right now we be make the right long - term decision to make sure that we not only transition to net zero , but do so in a way that bring people along with we and create job in the process . bedfordshire business now have apprentice on the factory floor , earn £ 48 , 000 a year on qualification , easily beat cost of living pressure . what more can we do to get school to promote apprenticeship to pupil and parent , as our college and institute of technology be great poverty - bust institution ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . one of the practical step we be take be to put all apprenticeship on to the UCAS system this autumn , which will make sure that they have parity of esteem in the classroom and increase information for parent and teacher . at the same time , as I announce early this week , we be clamp down on university course that fail to deliver good outcome . what we should be do be provide young people with the good opportunity for they to get on in life , and he be absolutely right that that should include apprenticeship . why do the Prime Minister think that Sir Brian Langstaff , who chair the public inquiry into infected blood , have reopen the hearing and summon before he the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , the Leader of the House and the Paymaster General to answer question next week ? my thought remain with all those affect by this appalling tragedy . the infected blood scandal should never have happen , and that be why the public inquiry be set up by one of my predecessor . I have submit write evidence to the inquiry and be due to give oral evidence shortly , so it would be inappropriate for I to comment far at this time . some 800 , 000 people work indirectly or directly in our car industry , which account for 10 % of our country ' s export . I strongly welcome the £ 4 billion investment by Tata Motors in a battery factory , and the job associate with it . will my right hon . friend build on that success and pursue a clear plan to get more gigafactorie , include in the west midland , so that we can capitalise on our lead in battery innovation and technology ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the importance of today ' s announcement . it be one of the large - ever investment in the UK auto industry in this country ' s history , with billion of pound and thousand of job , and it be a massive vote of confidence in the UK economy . the NHS in England have just have its long - ever junior doctor ' strike and consultant go on strike tomorrow for the first time in 50 year , yet so far Scotland have have no NHS strike . that be not by chance ; it be because our Health Secretary and First Minister have keep work with the British Medical Association to try to address the pay erosion face by doctor since 2008 . Workforce shortage be the big challenge face healthcare , and the Prime Minister just mention the importance of staff retention . do he really think that refuse even to talk to health union will stop doctor leave the NHS ? we do talk to health union , but we also respect the independent pay review body process , which be the right way to resolve these issue and mean that a typical junior doctor will see a 9 % pay rise as a result of this deal . since the hon . Lady mention retention , early this year the Government deliver the BMA ' s no . 1 ask , which be to remove the cap on pension tax . that be specifically design to retain senior doctor in the NHS . the Government have now do our bit , and I urge the union , " please get back to the hospital and treat your patient . " do my right hon . friend share my unease that a bank that have the Government as its large shareholder should close the account of a senior opposition politician ? will he use the Government ' s shareholde to ensure that there be an inquiry into those circumstance , because the subject datum access request make it clear , or certainly indicate , that it be the political view of the person concern that lead to his cancellation ? do my right hon . friend agree that , however much we may find they tiresome , member of the opposition deserve bank account ? it would not be right if financial service be be deny to anyone exercise their right to lawful free speech . our new Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 put in place new measure to ensure that politically expose person be be treat in an appropriate and proportionate manner , and have consult on the payment service regulation , we be in the process of crack down on that practice by tighten the rule around account closure . but in the meantime , any individual can complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service , which have the power to direct a bank to reopen their account . I know how it feel to be homeless , squat from one place to another with your entire belonging in one single black bin liner . hard - work family , include in Bradford West , be at risk of homelessness because of the Tory mortgage bombshell and the failure to legislate to protect renter . apart from totally lose grip of the whole situation , what be the Prime Minister do to stop half a million people become homeless ? actually , rough sleeping level be about a third low in 2022 compare with the peak in 2017 . since our landmark Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 come into force , more than 600 , 00 household have successfully have their homelessness prevent or relieve , and we be invest £ 2 billion over the next three year to continue to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping . the Prime Minister mention our armed force . may I mention they again ? we lose 457 personnel kill in Afghanistan , and several thousand suffer life - change injury . so I and some of my colleague on the Defence Committee be absolutely stunned to see a video post by our own Chairman laud the Taliban ' s governance of Afghanistan but not mention that they be still try to identify and kill afghan civilian who side with NATO force , nor the fact that they do not like girl to go to school . can I make it plain that that be not in our name , and can I have the Prime Minister ' s assurance that that silly and naive act be not in his name either ? I join my right hon . friend in pay tribute to our brave serve personnel and veteran , and I thank they for their service , as we touch on early . we have repeatedly call out , and will continue to repeatedly call out , the human right abuse that we see around the world . he mention rightly the prohibition on woman be educate in Afghanistan , which be something that we have speak about in the past . we will also continue to have dialogue with regime . that do not mean that we consider those regime to be legitimate or that we approve of their action , but that be all part , as he will understand , of establish normal diplomatic presence in country where the situation allow . I will very happily look into the specific case that he raise . it be not just the adoption of the disgusting two - child benefit cap ; it be the endorsement of a hard Brexit , the tuition fee , the immigration . do the Prime Minister not agree that there be now no real difference between the two main UK party ? be it not time that we perhaps rearrange the furniture in this House , have they all on one big Bench and re - title they the " this be what you get from the UK party " ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and I will leave he and the Labour party to debate the fine point of policy between they . on the substance , because it be important , the track record demonstrate that we be make a difference and reduce child poverty . there be now 400 , 000 few child in poverty than there be in 2010 , as a result of the action of this government — notably , by move their parent into work , because that have the single good benefit for those child . that be the right policy and it be one that we will continue to deliver . conversion therapy be quackery package up by bigot seek to promote their hate and to profit from it . on 19 January , a Minister promise at the Dispatch Box to bring forward a ban against conversion therapy and ensure that pre - legislative scrutiny be complete before the end of this parliamentary term . how do my right hon . friend plan to continue that ? may I also welcome his statement today and thank those LGBT veteran who be with we ? we be so grateful for their service and we seek this ban also in their name . I thank my hon . friend for her question . I agree with she that conversion therapy be an abhorrent practice , and we need to do everything we can to stamp it out wherever we see it . the Minister for Women and Equalities , my right hon . friend the Member for Saffron Walden ( Kemi Badenoch ) , will continue to keep my hon . friend and the House update on her progress . do the Prime Minister remember seven year ago , when he be a passionate supporter of leave the European Union , along with his then good friend , Boris Johnson ? be he aware that Sir John Major now say , in every speech he make , that that decision be catastrophic for the people of this country and living standard , as well as deeply damaging to our role , status and influence in the world ? I would say gently to the hon . Gentleman that he make the central point at the beginning of his question : it be seven year ago , and we need to move forward . he talk about what have happen since then . since we leave the single market , this economy have grow fast than Germany , France and Italy . he also talk about our standing on the world stage . he obviously be not here for the statement on the NATO summit last week , but nobody can be in any doubt that the United Kingdom be highly respected on the world stage . just last week the Leader of the Opposition announce his new flagship policy — the two - child benefit cap . it be very popular on this side of the House , but it be not so popular on the other side . can the Prime Minister tell the House when the Leader of the Opposition will jump off the bandwagon , be honest with the british public and tell they what he stand for ? my hon . friend be right . I welcome the Leader of the Opposition now support the Government ' s policy , but I do not think anyone actually believe that he believe in what he say . that be the — order . the Prime Minister need not worry , because he have no responsibility for the Opposition . every single Member of the House be require by law to confirm the true source of a donation before it be accept or declare . can the Prime Minister tell we whether he follow all the rule all the time before he take £ 38 , 500 of free air travel on 28 April ? if so , why do his story keep change about who pay ? all donation be declare in the normal way . as the hon . Gentleman know , if there be administrative change to that they be quickly correct . to bring the Prime Minister back to the question ask , rightly , by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , the opposition politician refer to be Nigel Farage , whose bank account be close not because he be a PEP — a politically expose person — or for commercial reason , but because his view do not align with the value of Coutts bank : thinly veil political discrimination and a vindictive , irresponsible and undemocratic action . in addition , Nat West also disclose confidential detail about Farage ' s account to the BBC and lie about the commercial viability of his account , action that should jeopardise its banking licence and should certainly worry Nat West ' s 19 million other customer . the Prime Minister have tell we what he will do in the future , but there be many other people in this circumstance . will he require every bank with a british banking licence to inform the Treasury of all the account that they have shut down for non - commercial reason in the last decade ? I know that my right hon . friend have speak to the Chancellor about this issue , and that he will continue to have those conversation . in the short term , have consult on the payment service regulation , we intend to crack down on that practice by toughen the rule around account closure . in the meantime , the Financial Ombudsman Service be available for people to make complaint to , but I look forward to continue the dialogue with my right hon . friend , as do the Chancellor . as a father , the Prime Minister will know how precious child be . Adam Watson , aged nine , and Poppy Ogle , age 10 , from my constituency sadly lose their battle with childhood cancer just last year . their home be forever break . both family want to see a change in financial support for the 1 , 600 child diagnose with cancer across the UK each year . will the Prime Minister commit to meet these family to listen to their story , and to review child disability living allowance payment so that they commence immediately on diagnosis of childhood cancer , whether or not the diagnosis be terminal ? the three - month wait for support be just too long . surely this Government can see fit to wrap their arm around these child and their family in their hour of need . I thank the hon . Lady for raise that issue . I can not imagine how difficult it be for family whose child be be treat for cancer , with everything that come along with that . I will happily look into the specific issue that she have mention and get back to she in all haste . she should know that she have my total support for help and support family who be go through what will be an unbelievably difficult time . contest : UK Strategy for counter Terrorism 2023 ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department if she will make a statement on Contest , the United Kingdom ' s Strategy for counter Terrorism 2023 . yesterday , the Government publish an update to our counter - terrorism strategy , Contest . a write ministerial statement be lay alongside the Command Paper in Parliament . Contest have a clear mission : to reduce the risk from terrorism to the United Kingdom , our citizen and our interest overseas , so that people can go about their life freely and with confidence . the terrorism threat level , set independently by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre , have not change , but the threat from terrorism be endure and evolve . despite a prevalence of low - sophistication attack in the UK , the threat we see today and in the come year be more diverse , dynamic and complex : a domestic terrorist threat that be less predictable , hard to detect and hard to investigate ; a persistent and evolve threat from islamist terrorist group overseas ; and an operate environment in which accelerate advance in technology provide both opportunity for , and risk to , our counter - terrorism effort . it be within that context that we judge that the risk from terrorism be once again rise . by far the big terrorist threat come from islamist terrorism . it account for 67 % of attack since 2018 , and about three quarter of MI5 ' s caseload . the remainder of the UK terrorist threat be largely drive by extreme right - wing terrorism , which account for approximately 22 % of attack since 2018 and about a quarter of the MI5 caseload . our counter - terrorism response will be even more agile in the face of an evolve threat — more integrated , so that we can bring the right intervention to bear at the right time to reduce risk , and more align with our international ally , to ensure that we continue to deliver together against that common threat . through this update strategy , we will place great focus on use all the lever of the state to identify and intervene against terrorist . we will build critical partnership with the private sector and international ally to keep the public safe , and we will harness the opportunity present by new technology . there be no great duty for this Government than to keep the british people safe , and I will not rest in deliver that mission . the Contest update have very much be a sobering reminder of the threat we face . our agency , to which we be so grateful , have prevent 39 late - stage terror attack in the past six year . the majority of they , as we have hear , be islamist - motivated , with extreme right - wing terrorism make up the remainder . however , we be concern by certain omission from the update , and the disparity between the threat outline and the response propose . on artificial intelligence , the update recognise the challenge , say that " terrorist be likely to exploit the technology " . we have call for new offence criminalise the training of chatbot to radicalise individual , but concrete measure be woefully lack in the update , so how be the Government go to tackle that ? the update say that the threat from Daesh and al - Qaeda be on an " upward trajectory " , so can the Home Secretary tell we how we be work urgently with international partner to mitigate that risk ? the desperate situation in prison be lay bare . with four of the nine terrorist attack in the UK since 2018 perpetrate by serve or recently release prisoner , we be tell individual may develop " a terrorist mindset … during their time in prison . " not only be we fail to de - radicalise people in prison , but people be be radicalise in prison , and failure to manage those prisoner on release be put the public at risk . can the Home Secretary tell the House how many terrorist prisoner be due to be release in the next 12 month , and whether every one of they have be engage in intensive de - radicalisation programme and assess for terrorism prevention and investigation measure ? finally , perhaps the most glaring omission be on state threat , despite the fact that the director general of MI5 make it clear in his annual threat update in November that Iran be " the state actor which most frequently cross into terrorism . " in February , our agency say that they have to disrupt 15 attempt kidnap and assassination attempt here in the UK . remarkably , the report make no reference to the resource , the approach or the power necessary to respond to that form of terrorism . the Home Secretary know that we have advocate for proscription power on multiple occasion , so why do the Government continue to reject those proposal and why have they not finally proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . I know that she recognise the gravity and the sensitivity of this subject , and she will share my view that we must face the threat of terrorism unite as one unified country . since March 2017 , our agency and law enforcement have disrupt 39 late - stage terrorist plot in the UK , as the hon . Lady say . these have include the targeting of public figure such as member of Parliament , specific community and event such as Pride , and public location such as iconic site in London . I want to put on record my profound thank and admiration of all the professional who work day in , day out under pressure for all they do to keep the british people safe every day . many of we will never know the length to which they go in apply their expertise , dedication and public service attitude to put our safety above their own . I be very proud of this Government ' s track record when it come to keep the country safe . as Martyn ' s law make its way through Parliament , I expect the Opposition to be responsible and to support we in our effort to provide this extra layer of protection for venue . we have see significant reform in our National Security Bill , now enact . the hon . Lady mention terrorism in prison . we take a very tough approach to manage terrorist prisoner , limit their interaction with each other and restrict their communication . we have develop a new counter - terrorism assessment and rehabilitation centre for expert psychologist and specialist staff to research and implement specialist programme to draw offender away from terrorism . indeed , the independent review of Prevent make extensive recommendation relate to those in custody . the hon . Lady refer to the use of artificial intelligence and technology . foundation - model ai undoubtedly hold vast potential , and they be crucial to the UK ' s mission to become a science and tech superpower , but there be still many unknown with this class of technology and many other form of emerge technology that pose significant , but not yet fully understand , public safety and national security risk . I be particularly concerned about the rapid development and public deployment of generative large - language model like chatgpt , and we be alert to the exponential pace of their development , the emergent capability which make the exact risk difficult to anticipate or control , and the relative ease with which safeguard can be overwrite . those at the forefront of these technology be explicit about the seriousness of the risk if proper safeguard be not develop quickly . we look forward to promote and enable an open and constructive dialogue and deepen collaboration with tech company leader , industry expert and like - minded nation as we seek to ensure that the gift of this technology be deliver and that society be protect . indeed , at the recent five Eyes security meeting in New Zealand , where I represent the UK , we discuss the emerge hostile use of technology and collaborative way in which we may work at the international level to mitigate those risk . to conclude , I be very clear that we need to face the threat unite as one country . I hope that the opposition understand the heavy weight of that responsibility and that we will work together constructively to keep the british people safe . one of the most effective way to disrupt , identify and reduce the terrorist threat be to bring together the disparate and disjointed data source that exist to link organise crime group activity to terrorist . will my right hon . and learn Friend detail how the Contest strategy will help make that happen ? as I mention in my statement yesterday , there be huge interaction — a blurring of the line , if you like — between terrorist organisation and group , hostile state actor and serious organise crime group , act on a transnational basis with sophisticated and well - resource network and a heighten level of elusiveness . that be exactly why our Contest strategy have be refresh to realign our priority , resource , technological capability and co - ordination across agency to properly respond in a swift and robust way to these emerge threat . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . may I start by express my party ' s deep gratitude to all those who be work to protect we from despicable terrorist attack ? of course , our thought remain with all those who have suffer as a result of such evil crime . on that note , while I welcome the strategy ' s focus on victim , may I raise the recent report of survivor of terrorism who have be deeply upset by poor treatment by the criminal injury compensation scheme ? what discussion have the Home Secretary have have with colleague about fix those problem ? the strategy ' s commitment to engage across the tech sector be welcome but , like the shadow Minister , I be surprise by its very limited reference to the use of artificial intelligence for radicalisation and instruction . the Windsor castle crossbow attacker be a perfect example of someone be radicalise in that way . do the Home Secretary believe that legislation be require , and what concrete step be be take to address the use of AI in that way ? what extra funding will support the refresh strategy , especially give the report that later this year a significant number of convict terrorist will complete their sentence , which will require the most careful management ? the strategy recognise the critical importance of the close partnership work with the devolved government and agency that have responsibility for deliver various aspect of Contest . can we have the Home Secretary ' s assurance that that close working will continue ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his observation . he talk about support and compensation for victim of terrorism . More can and must be do , which be why the Government be review the support available to well address victim ' need . we be absolutely committed to ensure that victim of terrorism get the full compensation to which they be entitle , in line with scheme administer by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority . those scheme deliver for victim of terrorism . the truth be that no amount of compensation can ever make up for the ordeal suffer by victim of terror . that be why it be right that survivor get all the support they need , in whatever form it may be require , through the publicly fund CICA , which pay out more than £ 158 million to victim of violent crime last year alone . I welcome the update of the strategy . it would be helpful if the Home Secretary tell we whether it will get the big tech company to do more to prevent terrorist from exploit their platform — an issue highlight in the Intelligence and Security Committee report , " Extreme Right - Wing Terrorism " . the technological aspect of terrorism be very real . our enemy be use more and more sophisticated tool against we for hostile purpose . that be plain from an intelligence point of view . that be why Contest make a deliberate point of address the technological feature of this kind of work . a huge amount of investment and operational capability have be put into mitigating and deal with that threat , most notably in the form of the counter - terrorism operation centre — a new collaboration centre that I have the honour of visit recently . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . a few week ago I meet Travis Frain , a founder member of Survivors Against Terror , who explain how his life have be change forever by the Westminster bridge terrorist attack and how he do not get the support he need in the aftermath . this week , a survey of 130 survivor of 11 major terrorist incident find that more than two third feel that the compensation scheme oversee by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority be unfair and unreasonable . the Home Secretary talk about a review . it be unacceptable that these people be in that position at the moment . when will the review actually be publish ? as I mention , there be no word and there be no amount of money that can adequately reflect the pain and suffering experience by victim of terrorism . that be why it be absolutely right that we provide victim of terrorism with full compensation and the full support possible and available to enable they to move forward from these tragic event . as I say , we know that more must be do . that be why we be review the support available . we need to well address victim ' need through the current scheme and ensure that they be properly meet the need of victim . there be people in Ukraine who find their territory illegally occupy and annex by Russia , their child disappear into russian custody and their land settle by ethnic Russians . under international law , we recognise the right of victim of the criminal action of the russian state to resist . how can we ensure that we do not end up characterise the legal action by the victim in that conflict , and in other analogous conflict around the world , as terrorism ? I be very proud of the UK ' s track record of support Ukraine and the Ukrainians both in Ukraine and abroad through the devastating illegal conflict that Russia and Putin have wage upon they . it be right that we provide military support , it be right that we roll out an extensive set of sanction against Russia , and it be right that we continue our international and diplomatic support for Ukrainians . I add my comment to those of the Home Secretary on our security service and thank they for the work that they do . the Intelligence and Security Committee report last year on right - wing terrorism find that 30 % of disrupt plot be from right - wing terrorism , and that they mainly involve young people who aim to join either the armed force or the police . we make recommendation on tighten up the vetting of police officer and proscribe membership of right - wing organisation for member of the armed force . will the Home Secretary update the House on what progress have be make on those two issue ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to refer to the emerge threat pose by extreme right - wing terrorism . the director general of MI5 , in his annual update , refer to the ideology that be emerge and increase in activity , and the independent review of Prevent focus on work that can be well do . it be absolutely right that we take robust action . that be why I be act on the recommendation set out by Sir William Shawcross on upgrade and update Prevent , so that it well respond to the risk of extreme right - wing terrorism , as well as to the risk pose by islamist terrorism . in update the UK ' s counter - terror strategy , what work be the security service do with UK Border Force to identify those enter the United Kingdom , particularly by irregular mean ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . terrorist and those who have malign intent for our nation will exploit all sort of vulnerability , include at the border — that be obvious . that be why the Contest upgrade deal specifically with this issue . we need to far strengthen the UK border as a critical line of defence against terrorism , take advantage of new immigration tool — detection , target and biometric capability — to identify and block threat from enter the UK illegally in the first place . this be a policy area that throw up some of the most difficult case ever to be find , so I welcome the Home Secretary ' s determination to build political consensus and ensure that we work with our strategic ally . some of the most difficult case around counter - terrorism involve UK citizen , especially child who be traffic by isis and be currently in north - east Syria . that be an area where we risk become an outlier , because all our ally have repatriate their citizen . it risk cause friction between ourselves and our ally . indeed , we have our own responsibility , give the fact that these be UK citizen who be trafficked . be there anything in the strategy that will help to tackle those very difficult case ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to refer to this very regrettable feature of modern day counter - terrorism . paragraph 26 of the Contest strategy state : " in recent year there have be a small increase in the number of minor investigate and arrest by Counter Terrorism Police . Most adverse activity conduct by minor have occur online ; over half of under - 18 convict of terrorism offence over the past five year be charge with non - violent offence ( the collection or dissemination of terrorist publication ) . " it be vital that we be cognisant of this emerge threat , and that we have the right resource , service and professionalism in place to mitigate and intercept the threat at source as soon as possible , but it be clear that wherever criminality have occur there will be a robust response from the appropriate agency . technology bring huge benefit , but it be also exploit by terrorist . be my right hon . and learn Friend confident that the update strategy will ensure that technology company do far more to prevent their service be use by those who wish we harm and to co - operate with our security and law enforcement service , particularly give the approach that some have take on encryption and child abuse imagery ? my hon . friend have speak about an issue that be close to my heart : tackle online child sexual exploitation , which be rise at an exponential and horrify pace . about 32 million instance of online child sexual abuse be record by the global recording centre last year alone . in this country , we arrest 800 individual a month involve in this heinous crime , and we safeguard about 1 , 200 child a month . it be horrify , and that be why we be take step to work constructively with the tech company . in term of Contest , I refer he to the extensive section on page 21 onwards and in other part of the strategy that talk about the technological aspect , how it be emerge and our action and response . notably , our world - lead counter - terrorism operation centre , newly establish , will bring together the right datum , technology and expertise to investigate and disrupt these type of threat . I welcome this statement . although it be much delay , it be much await . one of the key thing miss from the strategy be the use of covert human intelligence source — the people who use to be know as informant to the police . increase number of people catch under this network be people with mental health issue . will the Home Secretary provide a detailed account of how many chis be use , what the result be and how many of those report be people suffer with their mental health ? I can not get into detail that relate to operational independence and decision make by the agency in live investigation , but what I would say be that I expect all agency and law enforcement organisation to use the full breadth of power that we have afford they . the current situation , whereby ten of thousand of young man be arrive in small boat on our shore — primarily young man from unstable part of the world — be frankly an accident wait to happen . do the Home Secretary agree that the british people expect our border to be robustly enforce , and that be just as important when it come to defend our nation from terrorism as it be for anything else ? a strong border be critical to counter - terrorism . the Contest 2023 strategy clearly set that out . in the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , the Government revise schedule 7 to the Terrorism Act 2000 , expand power to prevent illegal entry , include via small boat . our migration and border system provide a critical opportunity to identify and manage individual and good that pose a terrorist concern . that be why rigour and robustness in our border be essential for national security . in the Government ' s response to the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s " Extreme Right - Wing Terrorism " report — I thank the Home Secretary for refer to the scale of that threat early in her remark — they say that " our counter - terrorism strategy , CONTEST , remain threat agnostic so that rather than target specific ideology , our tool , power and overall CT approach can adapt to change threat while also ensure our approach be still able to identify and assess what be inherently ideological threat . " can I simply ask she to confirm that nothing she have say today and nothing that have be publish change the underlie philosophical basis of how the Contest strategy operate ? as the Contest strategy refresh make clear , a broad range of ideology and narrative draw people into support terrorism . that include , as I have say , islamist terrorism , which be by far the large proportion of MI5 ' s case load , but there be also an increase threat from extreme right - wing terrorism that we must confront , eliminate and do everything in our power to stop . wherever it come from , and however people be radicalise into extremist and violent behaviour , it be unacceptable , and we take a robust approach , ultimately , to keep the british people safe . in June this year , the border inspectorate say that not every arrival into the UK at Manston be have security check do as part of their interview or have their property check . can the Home Secretary guarantee now that every arrival be be fully check , and if not , why not ? have visit the reception centre at Western Jet Foil and Manston , and have be work closely on ensure that the right facility , resource and mechanism be in place to ensure that those who arrive illegally be appropriately accommodate , I can say that we ensure that those who arrive be check . they go through biometric check and any other appropriate check , and then they be put through our processing centre , generally at Manston . they be then put on a track , effectively , to other onward accommodation if they have an asylum claim . that be the general scheme that we have be carry out for some time . the UK police and security service use to conduct more than 600 million real - time security check on a share EU platform before we lose access after Brexit . at the time , the Government inform we that we would have access to a share platform within two or three year . now , the permanent secretary have advise that we will not have access to a share dataset until 2027 or 2028 . can the Home Secretary confirm just how much of a damaging effect the loss of this vital intelligence and security mechanism be have on our ability to tackle terrorism and cross - border crime ? I know the hon . Gentleman be on his Brexit bandwagon , or whatever it be , but the reality be that from a security point of view , we have never have strong collaboration with international partner than today . we have continue to develop our global reach and insight through sustain work with ally . that be particularly with the five Eyes , where we share an enormous amount of common approach and strategic development , but also with european partner . I have meet many of my european counterpart , and we share the common goal of national security . in many instance , the UK be see among european ally as a leader and a nation value for its contribution to pan - european national security . as the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) , rightly state , the Government ' s update acknowledge that when it come to AI , " terrorist be likely to exploit the technology to create and amplify radicalise content , propaganda and instructional material , and to plan and commit attack . " however , there be no concrete plan in the update to address those grow risk . beyond point to the Government ' s own Online Safety Bill , which have be delay yet again and water down , and other than the rhetoric we have hear today from the Secretary of State , what be the Government actually do ? what concrete plan be in place to tackle this grow problem , because we have see little to no action thus far ? the hon . Lady obviously have not read the document . if she have , she would see our action , our achievement and what our plan be . first — I will save she the trouble of read the document — we be realise the full potential of our newly establish , world - lead counter - terrorism operation centre . I do not think she have visit , but I recommend she try to , because it be an incredibly impressive , world - lead operational centre establish recently that bring together the right team , datum and technology to more effectively identify , interrupt and disrupt terrorist . we be also ensure a broad range of expertise from non - law enforcement intervention to mitigate the evolve terrorist threat . we be maintain our investment in the critical threat assessment capability through the world - class joint terrorism analysis centre . I could go on , but in the interest of time , she would probably do well to read the document first . the new Contest counter - terrorism strategy mention that incel threat " could meet the threshold of terrorist intent or action " . the person behind the shooting in Plymouth in 2021 , where we lose five people , could have have their action inform by incel culture and violent misogyny . Incel violence currently largely fall out of the scope of all the Prevent strategy tactic . do the Home Secretary agree that it be now time to develop a cross - government incel strategy , so that we can not only prevent people from go down that path towards violent misogyny , but help rescue those who be do so ? that would provide a great level of community safety for woman and our entire community , and we would never again see the violence we see in Plymouth repeat on our street . the hon . Gentleman be an incredibly powerful advocate for his constituent . let I put on record my thought and prayer for the love one of all of those who be tragically lose or affect . Incel culture be not strictly within the Contest apparatus , but it do need work . I readily accept that it be a violent trend and a radicalise influence that be promote a culture that be totally at odd with the free , safe and democratic society that we all love and want to cherish . I be happy to speak to he about what further step we can take as a Government . in March , the security threat level in Northern Ireland be increase from substantial to severe in the aftermath of the attempt murder of DCI John Caldwell . since 2016 , the additional security funding that the Government provide to the Police Service of Northern Ireland have be flatline in cash term at £ 32 million a year . will the Home Secretary undertake to review that level of funding to ensure that the PSNI and the Security Service have the tool to continue their good work in combat both dissident republican and loyalist terrorism ? Northern Ireland - relate terrorism remain a serious threat , particularly in Northern Ireland . the Contest strategy do not address the threat from Northern Ireland in Northern Ireland ; that be manage by a separate strategic approach lead by the Northern Ireland Office . at the Home Office , our Contest approach cover the threat from Northern Ireland - relate terrorism in mainland Great Britain . it be important that we do not decouple those two threat , which be very interlinked . we know that some dissident republican group continue to carry out terrorist attack , as the hon . Member refer to , so we need to ensure that all the resource be available , and we want to ensure that we support partner in Northern Ireland so they be readily equip to mitigate and respond to the threat . in June , the national security adviser to the Canadian Government — a key five Eyes member — list Russia , China and Iran as key state actor that pose a threat to canadian life . they then add India to that list due to the rise of hindu nationalist activity specifically target canadian Sikhs . be that anywhere in the Home Secretary ' s think on extremism ? if not , why not ? as I say , general ideology be set out in our Prevent approach and our Contest approach . we be actor - agnostic , but we note where these threat be emerge base on a casework analysis , as confirm by MI5 and other agency . the predominant threat relate to islamist terrorism , but of course it be right that there be robust law - enforcement response for any kind of violence or extremism that meet the criminal threshold . I welcome very much the Secretary of State ' s answer to the question pose . far to the question from the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) , will she outline what step have be take to allocate additional funding to local police force in area with high threat level such as Northern Ireland , where republican terrorism be a real threat to the democratic process ? bear in mind that the police budget in Northern Ireland have be cut in real term in a time of crisis , will she confirm what discussion have take place with the Chief Constable and the Policing Board to ensure that the commitment to ringfence funding for the battle against terrorism in all of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be maintain ? I make some reference to the specific nature of the threat pose by Northern Ireland - relate terrorism . it be clear that it be primarily concentrate and direct against target in Northern Ireland . I regularly discuss with UK Government colleague how we can ensure robust defence across the whole piece , but I be happy to see what more can be do through a conversation . the rapid proliferation of end - to - end encryption and anonymous messaging service allow terrorist group to communicate freely without the risk of detection or identification . of course , personal privacy must be uphold for ordinary citizen , so how be the Government look to work with tech expert to find alternative way of access the communication of member of such group ? this be something that really do concern I . the propose roll - out of end - to - end encryption without enable lawful access or without safeguard will pose a danger not just to national security , but to child and to all our people . it be vital that the technology company work with we to roll out the available technology — I be confident that it exist — to enable and protect privacy right , but at the same time to enable law enforcement access and intervention to take place so that we can safeguard child online , prevent radicalisation online and prevent criminality online . veteran update with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like expand on the apology deliver by the Prime Minister this afternoon for the unacceptable hurt cause to LGBT member of our nation ' s armed force by the 1967 to 2000 ban on homosexuality . it be not acceptable and it be not what the brave man and woman it affect deserve . for that , on behalf of the Government and the armed force , I be deeply sorry . for hundred of year , join the british armed force have be a career choice full of opportunity , adventure and self - improvement ; one of the most fulfilling and stimulate occupation a young person can choose . but it be also one of self - sacrifice and bravery . this morning , we publish the independent review into the service and experience of LGBT veteran who serve prior to 2000 . it make for miserable and distressing reading . it be only right that the House take the time to acknowledge and reflect on those veteran who have share their experience with the review . I , along with a number of colleague in the House , serve in our armed force when the ban be in place . I can not imagine what it must have be like for someone to join the armed force , buoy up by that great spirit of service , only to discover , to their horror , that many believe they do not fit . I can not imagine what it must have feel like to be hound out of a job they love simply on account of their sexuality . nor can I imagine what it must have be like to lose their livelihood , their family and their home simply because of the person they choose to love , yet that be the experience of many sailor , soldier and aviator over decade , and it happen here — in this country — little over 20 year ago . the report publish today bring the experience to life for we and spotlight the hurt feel by those affect . for that , I be truly grateful . the ban be introduce in 1967 — unbelievably , after the Sexual Offences Act 1967 decriminalise same - sex sexual act in private between consent adult . to add to the injustice , when the ban end at the beginning of the millennium , the story of those who suffer be forget and their record be bury . additionally , in 2010 and 2011 , in line with Government policy agree by the Association of Chief Police Officers , the Ministry of Defence enact a policy to destroy legacy police investigation record concern decriminalise sexual offence , so that historical decriminalised conviction could not show up on criminal record check of service personnel . I assure veteran that this be not a cover - up and do not mean that their wide service record have be destroy . I want to place on the record my thank and gratitude to Lord Etherton and his team for compile this comprehensive report . it be commission in January 2022 and , since , 1 , 128 people have respond with their experience , many in substantial detail . I pay particular tribute to all those who come forward . they have show tremendous courage in chronicle traumatic experience , which for many have be cause grief and groundless shame for decade . I also place on record my admiration and thank to fight with Pride , and especially Craig and Caroline , who have hold the baton for so long . the testimony make truly harrowing reading . they paint a shocking and shameful picture of a defence that be hard to comprehend . the enforcement of the ban become something of a witch hunt . the testimony detail investigation , invasive search and examination , degrade test , brutal bullying and , in some case , sexual abuse . one doctor who join in 1984 describe how he have to perform a test for which there be no medical or clinical basis . some who think they could confide in their chaplain be stunned to find their detail be pass to their superior . for those affect , the hardship impact every aspect of their life . reputation be demean and defame . commission be surrender and officer demote by multiple rank . veteran who serve with distinction , award medal in famous campaign from the Falklands to the Gulf , be strip of their medal . we can not turn back the clock , but we can make amend and take action . this report make 49 recommendation . my Department , alongside the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , the Department for Health and Social Care and other across Government , in partnership with the devolved Administrations and the charity sector , all have a role in deliver the report ' s recommendation . many in the LGBT veteran community have be eagerly await the publication of this report , and rightly so — they have be wait for decade to be hear . I be pleased to say that , since we receive this report at the end of May , multiple Government Departments have be busy work through the recommendation to ensure that we come to the House today accept , in principle , the vast majority of the report ' s recommendation . while we agree with the intent behind they , we may deliver a number in different way from that describe in the report . we will set out those difference when we publish the Government ' s full response to the review after the summer recess , but I assure the House : that will be the time when we can not only deliver restitution and redress to the LGBT veteran community , but make sure that the House properly debate the report and the Government ' s response to it and its recommendation . this of course be a statement today . while I welcome all colleague ' challenge and request on it , I have decide specifically that a debate in the House should take place to give a chance to debate the Government ' s recommendation . that be the right thing to do . although that may take the summer , it be important that both Opposition and our colleague can hold I or my successor to account . in fact , we have already deliver six of the recommendation today ; the Prime Minister deliver the first this morning at the Dispatch Box . importantly , we have set up a digital front door , which go live today at midday , to offer information on veteran ’ service , support and restorative measure to those affect by the ban . I encourage LGBT veteran to visit it to see what support be available to they now , and to stay informed as our delivery of the recommendation be roll out . I be happy to be draw on further detail on the recommendation during today ' s question but , as I say , the House should have proper time to debate and scrutinise they . I be glad that today ' s MOD be a very different place today from the Defence of the late ' 60 to ' 90 . our LGBT colleague be an integral and undifferentiated part of the Defence family , make a fantastic difference all over the world . at the start of this month , the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , meet LGBT member of our armed force and veteran before they march at London Pride . the occasion have become a celebrated part of our military calendar . today ' s MOD policy be gear towards LGBT issue . there be training for LGBT ally and thriving LGBT staff network . there be no place for prejudice in the modern armed force . however , thing be by no mean perfect , which be why we continue to improve on our zero - tolerance policy towards discrimination . we should not forget that we could not have reach this point be it not for some incredibly brave people . I pay tribute to those who have campaign for justice over the decade , include fight with Pride , Rank Outsiders and the Armed Forces Legal Action Group . cultural change take time , particularly in such large organisation as our armed force . but it can only really begin when individual be prepared to stand up and be count . this government have show they care about right historic wrong . that be why we bring forward this review . once we have take the time need to fully work out how to deliver recompense for this community , we look forward to be back at the Dispatch Box to outline those detail . in his preface to the report , Lord Etherton note : " the survivor have wait for at least 23 year for acknowledgment of what they have suffer , and for justice and restitution . " today be about that acknowledgment . it be about recognise the sadden personal account and the deep traumatic hurt that the historic ban have cause . it be about acknowledge the adversity they overcome . it be about celebrate the spirit of service they display . and it be about take the time to acknowledge their importance within our Defence family , serve or veteran . I be strike by one particular quote in the report from a veteran : " I don ' t feel I be a veteran . I have never ask for help . I don ' t feel like my service be recognise . " today , we want to say to all those ex - soldier , sailor and aviator , many of whom be in retirement : you be one of we , you belong to our community and , in choose to put yourself in harm ' s way for the good of your colleague , your community and your country , you have prove yourselves the good of we . I say again to the veteran community — I be deeply sorry for what happen to you . the very tolerance and value of a western democracy that we expect you to fight for we deny to you . it be profoundly wrong . I be determine as Defence Secretary , and as a veteran , to do all I can today to right those historic wrong , so that you can once again take pride in your service and inspire future generation to follow in your footstep . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . today might be his last appearance at the Dispatch Box , so I pay tribute to he for focus his last appearance on such an important issue for the LGBT + community . I thank Lord Etherton and his team for their diligent work in complete the review into the pre - 2000 ban on LGBT + serve personnel in the UK armed force . as the Leader of the opposition say at Prime Minister ' s question , we strongly welcome the apology from the Prime Minister as a recognition of this historic injustice . the review represent important progress in recognise the injustice that LGBT + veteran have suffer , and recommend a framework to enable LGBT + veteran to rebuild their life and get the resolution they need . on behalf of the Labour party , I pay tribute to LGBT + veteran and group such as fight with Pride which have campaign for justice over this appalling treatment . it be right for the Government to launch the review , reflect proposal put forward by the Labour party during the passage of the Armed Forces Act . the loss of livelihood and long - term suffering endure by LGBT + veteran due to the cruel and unjust ban have be enormous . LGBT + veteran put their life at risk to protect our country . they be our nation ' s hero , yet suffer a serious injustice . we now know that , as a consequence of the ban , around 20 , 000 LGBT + military personnel be jail , dismiss , out to their family or subject to abuse , simply because of their sexuality or gender identity . that should have never happen . many lose a job they love , and their income , pension and honour . those dishonourably discharge be ban from wear their military uniform at remembrance event . many more be force to conceal their true identity . the review reference the shocking and appalling treatment of serve LGBT + personnel , include the disgraceful use of electric shock therapy . no one across the whole of society should be subject to that awful practice . I have speak to brave LGBT + veteran impact by the ban , who tell I how they lose career they love , suffer disgraceful abuse and still suffer the impact of the ban — all for simply be themselves . many LGBT + veteran show exceptional courage to reach back into traumatic memory to contribute to the review . the review receive 1 , 128 response from people share their live experience . it be important that their testimony be hear to ensure that the LGBT + community have a sense of ownership of the report . today ' s commitment represent the beginning of the process . we must now see immediate action from the Government to implement the review ' s recommendation , as that will begin the process of help LGBT + veteran to get the resolution they need and , in some case , rebuild their life . the Secretary of State say that the Government agree with the intent behind the recommendation , but may deliver a number of they in a different way from that describe in the report . will he outline to the House which recommendation will be deliver in a different way from that set out in the report ? how have that be decide ? will the Government work with LGBT + veteran and third sector group to ensure that they be deliver appropriately ? we fully support give back medal to LGBT + veteran and end the ban on those dishonourably discharge due to their sexuality or gender identity from wear uniform at remembrance ceremony . I hope the Minister will outline how veteran can seek the return of their medal . recommendation 28 state that an " appropriate financial award should be make to affected veteran " . how be the Defence Secretary and the Chancellor planning to take that forward ? any propose compensation scheme must be accessible to all veteran affect , whether they be dishonourably discharge , medically discharge , at the time , because of their sexuality , or dismiss while under investigation . the recommendation relate to mental health and physical welfare must be deliver in an inclusive manner that recognise all LGBT + veteran and the different way in which they be affect by the ban and dismiss . can the Secretary of State assure the House and the LGBT + community that this be an issue his Department be actively consider ? the Government must do whatever it take to successfully implement the recommendation . we look forward to their full response and to a future debate . we can not right the wrong of the past , but we can help LGBT + veteran now fix their life , damage for too long by this ban . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for what she have say . I think that all of we — the Opposition and those of we on this side of the House — share not only a desire to honour those veteran and make our apology , but a recognition that we must work to deliver recommendation that will make that difference . there be no delay and we be not avoid the question : when I say that " we may " apply some recommendation in a different way from that describe in the report , I be allude to simple issue relate to the general data protection regulation and to difference of opinion in the same community . let I give an example : the veteran badge . some member of the LGBT community would say that they be veteran , full stop . they do not want to be differentiate ; they want the same badge as all other veteran . there be other , however , who want a separate badge . there be no easy answer to that , which be why we will be work on the issue with organisation such as fight with Pride . the same go for financial provision or recognition of the harm do . we must arrive at an elegant solution that match the need and requirement of those individual , rather than come to the House in haste and make a statement . as we have see with the infected blood scheme , for instance , when scheme be not think through , more problem be cause and lawyer seem to take more money than the victim who deserve to be compensate or support . we will be very happy to work with the Opposition in advance of any debate to discuss our thinking on the recommendation . we have no qualm about that : the whole House have a role to play in value these veteran . People in my age group serve in the old Army , and I say " old Army " because what the report say about institutional homophobia be true , and member should read it . I be part of that Army , and I be determined to make this statement today — rather than its be make by my excellent colleague the Minister — because I want to acknowledge that I have be part of that Army and that thinking , which I deeply regret . we should get these recommendation right , but some element be less straightforward than other . where we have be able to get on with they , we have do so , with , for instance , the apology . " LGBT veteran : support and next step " go live today on gov . uk . it refer to the process of help to restore medal , which we have do , and help to inform the veteran community about , for example , the fact that their pension right be not abolish . many , as they leave , be misinformed or bully , and tell all sort of thing — for example , that their record would disappear completely , and that they would have no pension . that be not true . there be some pension still to be claim , and we should do everything we can to help the people concern . let we hear from the hon . and gallant Gentleman , Crispin Blunt . I find a way of accommodate myself to the law and to the rule of society of the time . I then overtly follow a successful journey through my life and career . this report — an outstanding piece of work — be cause I to re - evaluate the damage do to I , and the price pay by those close to I , as a result of have to make that accommodation . I be profoundly grateful that I now live in a society , and under law , that allow I to be myself . will my right hon . friend ensure that all 49 recommendation be deliver in a spirit that meet the author ' s intention ? my hon . friend be a good friend of mine , and I remember he make that brave decision . many of we on this side of the House who know he well — and many on the other side — pay tribute not only to his decision to come out at that moment , but to his ongoing campaigning for LGBT people and , indeed , for all those across society who have have to make such difficult decision in their life . I can give he an assurance that we will absolutely hold to the spirit and the intention behind the recommendation , that we will do everything we can to implement they , and that only when we encounter difficult technical challenge will we seek another way of fulfil the intention . all that will be do in a transparent manner , not behind closed door . we will ensure that when we have a problem , we discuss it ; and when there be two side to the argument — as with the veteran badge — we will consult the community as closely as possible . I also ask member to recognise that in the case of some of the recommendation there will be no perfect answer : some people within that community will have a different view , and we must find a way of accommodate that as well . I call the Scottish National party spokesman . I hope you will indulge I for a moment , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I know that this may be the Secretary of State ' s last time at the Dispatch Box in this role — let we see what the summer bring — and I have to say to he , as a former member of the Defence Committee , that I find he hard - work and determine . we might not have always agree on a few thing , but when it come to issue that I find particularly important as a member of that Committee , especially the High North and the north Atlantic , he always answer the question in a way that the Committee want to hear . I commend he for his work in his current role , and you never know — we might see he back in Holyrood , where it all start . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . I think it quite appropriate that this last appearance — possibly — at the Dispatch Box should be one in which he right , as he say , a historic wrong . I also commend those who have play a part in bring we to this point — I see Craig Jones and Caroline Paige in the Public Gallery . I commend they and everyone else who have work for this so hard for so many year . those of we on these Benches welcome this statement . be a member of the gay community have never be a barrier to martial accomplishment . let I give a little history lesson : from Achilles to Frederick the Great , and from James VI to even William III , we should be clear that LGBT people have serve with distinction at every level of the armed force for as long as humanity have exist . I appreciate the Secretary of State ' s candour about his own time in service . I also appreciate his clear use of the term " the LGBT community . " it be indeed welcome that his Department have not seek to play a part in other issue that be a distraction from the reality of the LGBT community , and I be extremely grateful for that . while acknowledge the work that have bring we to where we be now , can I ask the Secretary of State what work his Department be do not only to widen access for LGBT personnel , but to push back against the pernicious idea that LGBT inclusion be contrary to the interest of the armed force and our national security ? while we may want to talk about medal , which be great , perhaps we could hear something about pension for the spouse of those who have not live to see this point in time . I be grateful to my honourable colleague across the Floor . as he say , we never know : he may find I back in the Scottish Parliament , where it all begin . an independent one . I be not go to live to the age of 200 , so I do not know , but I have always enjoy work with the hon . gentleman . he be absolutely right : there be no barrier to the success of gay man and woman and what they can achieve in this world . Dr Turing be probably the great hero of the second world war , in my book . his achievement shorten the war , save thousand of life and help to defeat the Nazis . the story of how society treat he be a sad one . I remember campaign for he to appear on a £ 50 note , and I think that the empty plinth in Parliament Square , rather than feature the Mayor ' s various gimmick every five minute , should feature he as well . that would be the great tribute to the success of someone from the LGBT community and what they have do in this world . the hon . Gentleman ask about pension . as I say early , pension right be still there for those veteran . I trust that the website I mention will lead those who be not aware of that , or who be badly inform or deliberately mislead , to the true position , and to the fact that with those right will come the right of their dependant . I would be very happy , as a Back Bencher in this House , to take up that cause and make sure that they have access to that as well . diversity and inclusion be often knock and ridicule by the medium , as be our effort to try to accommodate all in our armed force , but our armed force be only as good as the society they reflect . we can not afford not to have the talent of the LGBT community , just as we can not afford not to have the talent of woman , in the armed force . it would be simply ridiculous if we be not to encourage it , support it and make sure that it thrive . I thank my right hon . friend , and also the shadow Minister — the hon . member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) — for all they have have to say about this excellent report . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Crispin Blunt ) , whose testimony move we all . this be a very fine report , and Lord Etherton have do a first - class job in bring it forward . I very much welcome the fact that the Prime Minister have make a real and heartfelt apology — as do my right hon . friend in his statement — for this historic outrage . however , would the House agree that the real outrage be that nothing at all have happen for 22 year ? it have take we as a nation 22 year , under all party , to put this thing right . that be quite wrong . I therefore think that the sincerity of the Prime Minister ' s apology will be judge not only by how well he do in achieve the 49 recommendation in the report but by how enthusiastically , how rapidly and how well he bring those thing forward . the LGBT community be wait to see what he do . we look forward to the debate in the autumn and we will judge he by the enthusiasm with which he adopt these recommendation . I can not answer the question of why it take 22 year . all I can say be that , from the authority I have in my office for now , have be able to commission this report and start this process be something that I be proud and pleased to have do , ably support by the Veterans Minister and the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , and by my colleague the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) . I can only speak for that . as for the enthusiasm and support for get this implement , I will be sit alongside my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) and I can hold whoever come to this Dispatch Box to account to do it . I absolutely think we should do it with enthusiasm . at one stage we think about just have a full debate on this today , but that would have involve come here with no solution . that would be the bad thing to do to the House . the good thing be to come here with this statement today and come back after the summer and hold the Government to account . I will be there , beside my hon . friend , hold they to account on whether they uphold these recommendation . I draw the House ' s attention to my own interest in this , include my past service as an openly gay Army reservist after the ban . I strongly welcome the apology today , but I be acutely aware that I be able to serve openly only because of the repeal of the ban , and that I have a very different experience in service than that of so many here today , include the hon . member for Reigate ( Crispin Blunt ) . I can not praise enough the work of the veteran who have campaign so tenaciously , and also their service and the courage that they have exhibit so many time during and after their service career . I write to the Ministry of Defence a few year ago on behalf of a lesbian constituent who have be discharge for her sexuality . it be the first time she have tell anyone about this when she come to see I in my surgery , and she tell I that it be record in her record of service and her discharge that her service be no long require , although of course she be discharge for be a lesbian . she tell I of the horrific experience she have go through , include the invasion of her privacy , and the impact that have have on she for decade . the MOD tell I that her service record could not be amend because it have be administer correctly and that it would be inappropriate to do so . give the recommendation in the report , particularly recommendation 26 and 27 , can the Secretary of State tell I whether record will now be able to be change to truly reflect the service and bravery of so many of our veteran ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question and for his service . when I think of my own experience , I know that be friend with and get to know man and woman from the gay community — which I do not really do in my childhood or in my service because it be never talk about — be what have bring I to a position where I regret vote against gay marriage , for example . my relationship and friendship with people such as my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Crispin Blunt ) and the former Member for Arundel and South Downs , and meet friend and colleague from throughout the House , be part of the experience for all of we . on the hon . Gentleman ' s question of make sure that those veteran who want their service record to say what they want it to and be open about it , we absolutely should see a way of how we can accommodate that . it be not go to be easy , but that do not mean we can not do it . there be clearly a policy run through the armed force where the real reason that people leave be not put on their record . I think that apply to thousand , or even ten of thousand , of people . of course that be go to be a challenge , but it be not insurmountable . we must find a way to do this , and I be clear that we should do so . however , I also remember a debate about pardon when I be a parliamentary private Secretary at the Ministry of Justice . at that stage , there be a longing for people ' s record to be remove because people do not want a record of a criminal offence that they feel should never have happen . that be the drive force behind the police chief ' discussion that lead to the destruction of those record . as I have say , it be not a cover - up . there be some people who say , " this be wrong and it should not be on my record . why should I be know for that ? " so we just have to find a way through . if there be anything we can do to find a way of do this , I will do my very good to do it and I know that the Defence team will as well . do the review report throw any light on the strange paradox that this ban be so rigidly enforce in peacetime , yet during the first and second world war there be mass conscription , as a result of which many gay military personnel serve with distinction and be award the high medal for gallantry ? that be a pretty cruel reflection on a state , and it affect not just LGBT people but woman . in the first and second world war , woman keep industry go . they keep the home fire burn and keep the factory go . woman be not allow to fly fighter plane in war , but they be allow to deliver they . then , after the war , everyone go back to treat woman as , in some case , second - class citizen in the workplace . it be a good observation that we should not repeat this , and that we should embrace the fact we now have great achiever serve in our armed force who be gay . this be the way to ensure that we set the right example for the future . I thank the Defence Secretary for his statement . with 270 page and 49 recommendation , it be a lot of summer reading . I welcome the Government ' s apology to LGBT veteran today . those veteran serve their country but a number of they be strip of their medal . will those medal now be return swiftly and will the ban on LGBT veteran wear their uniform at ceremony be lift ? in answer to both : yes . also , some veteran be tell that they do not qualify for medal in the first place . they , too , will be able to have their medal from now on . I thank the Defence Secretary for his statement , which , as a proud LGBTQ + champion , I strongly support . I wonder if he might indulge I the opportunity , as a former commanding officer , of present he with his annual appraisal on his final tour of duty with the MOD . it say here , quite clearly , that Captain Wallace be strident , forthright , spirited and fearless in the pursuit of an outcome , which we have just see in this statement . I have regretfully grade he a - for potential , give that he be move on from the top job , but we can all agree that he get an a + for performance . do he agree that he be leave the MOD a much well place than it be when he arrive , not least for LGBTQ + personnel ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . if the truth be know , I do not think I ever get an a in anything . maybe I be finish this job without be find out . I warmly welcome the report and pay tribute to the campaigner . recommendation 16 refer to pension , and the issue have already be raise as to whether survivor will be beneficiary . can I stress that that need look at ? recommendation 28 relate to financial compensation . the MOD set the Committee a maximum of £ 50 million as a cap on what could be pay in compensation . I urge the Secretary of State not to use that as a way of keep compensation payment down to keep the Treasury happy . could he also clarify — I know that the Veterans Minister be not here today for the announcement — who will implement the recommendation ? I be happy to write to the right hon . Gentleman to clarify the pathway to the pension , which be important . first and foremost , we recognise that there should be a financial award . secondly , as I say , it be important that we work with people like fight with Pride on how we can do that . the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs be sit right above the right hon . Gentleman , and the implementation will predominantly be do by the Ministry of Defence , but some recommendation be cross - Government . no doubt the right hon . Gentleman and I , from the Back Benches , will write to the Treasury . I thank my right hon . friend for his courage and openness , and I thank the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs for his work . the report make for incredibly difficult reading . we be a proud service and military community in Rutland , Melton , the Vale and Harborough village . I take this opportunity to recognise that community and to put on record that we see they and hear they , and that it be the senior military of the time who steal career and steal future . they be the one who should feel ashamed , not those who serve or who seek to serve our country . I also put on record the House ' s sorrow that there be the same ban on diplomatic staff , with an apology be make only in 2021 . we see they and thank they for their work . we work with , train and equip many military around the world that continue to persecute LGBT people who simply want to protect their people . what be we do to make sure that , when we work with , train and equip those military , we do not allow they to repeat the mistake we make ? my hon . friend ' s last point be incredibly valid . yes , we train people all over the world to protect their society , but what be the point if we do not also train they to uphold international humanitarian and human right law ? on many occasion we do that . I once stand in Lebanon to listen to former british soldier , under a british scheme , train the lebanese army in human right . that be incredibly important , otherwise what be it all for ? I understand my hon . friend ' s point about senior commander , but it would be wrong to focus on only one cohort . ultimately , the institutional organisation , culture and mindset — and society ' s mindset that affect diplomat , the judiciary and everything else — be collectively responsible for the environment that lead to this . as a rather junior officer I do not have a role and do not come across anyone who be go to be lock up or prosecute , but I take responsibility as much as the senior people in the Department who make the policy . I welcome this statement , and I sincerely welcome the manner in which it have be deliver . it show the Defence Secretary ' s leadership quality , which have be all too lacking in many other lead politician in recent time . I pay tribute to my constituent Simon Hinchley - Robson , who urge I to bring his case to the Floor of the House in an Adjournment debate . he be horribly physically abuse after be out by a doctor who have give he a medical examination , before be summarily dismiss from the RAF . he be deny his pension and his opportunity to serve his country . he , like many other , deserve redress . what I do not want to see be the interminable case we be see with contaminate blood , Grenfell and the Post Office . what can the Secretary of State say today to ensure that we do not see such delay and obfuscation in this case ? some of the delay and obfuscation be drive by a rush to get a scheme that satisfy speed . the obfuscation be not always deliberate . we have see a list of example where thing have be write incorrectly . I remember the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) campaign on the vibration white finger scandal . the intention be good , but the lawyer be the one who profit , so we have to get it right . if the hon . member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) would like to write to I personally on behalf of his constituent , I will make sure of his pension right , which be not take away from these people . they may have be inform as such , so we must make sure that their pension right have not be take away . if there be a reason why they be take away , I be very happy to explore make sure they be restore . whether it be the cadet , the battle of Britain memorial flight or the Red Arrows , the military ' s reach go far beyond simply their personnel . do the Secretary of State agree that the least the military can do , in the light of today ' s report , be use their influence to try to break down broad anti - lgbt prejudice in our society ? I totally agree . when people join the armed force , they want to belong . one of the good part of basic training be when they be finally give their beret or when they finally pass their weapon test . believe it or not , be on guard for the first time feel like they be be treat like a proper soldier , and they just want to belong . the fact that they all look the same and be wear the same uniform be actually part of the attraction . that have to be the quality we sell to people . it do not matter if a person be gay or straight , or whatever they be . they be part of the collective defence of this fine nation and its value . the Red Arrows , troop the colour , the cadet force and all those other symbol be , in a sense , about belong to one thing . LGBT + veteran be willing to make the ultimate sacrifice and risk their life to protect our country . they be our nation ' s hero , but they suffer such a gross injustice . I be proud that Labour repeal the ban on LGBT + service personnel in 2000 , and I welcome the Etherton review when it be first launch . do the Defence Secretary agree that the Prime Minister ' s very welcome apology be merely the first step in the healing process , as we attempt to correct this historic wrong ? do he also acknowledge that how compensation be deal with will be the true barometer of the Government ' s success in deal with our LGBT + veteran ? the true barometer will be how we implement all 49 recommendation . yes , financial award will be part of it but , for some , the restoration and the valuing of these people be just as important . I hear the hon . Gentleman ' s point , but not a single other Member have talk about party politic or political party . my point about the overall culpability of society be that my party oppose lift the ban and his party oppose lift the ban . the European Court of Human Rights rule against they and force they to do it . I come to this House in the spirit of honesty and openness about the culpability of society . let we not make it party political . I welcome the apology , which will go some way towards correct the hurt that our veteran face . as a proud member of the Royal Navy branch of the armed force parliamentary scheme , I have see at first hand the vital role of our LGBT personnel . what effort be the Secretary of State make to ask the service chief to redouble their effort to make our armed force even more welcoming in the recruitment of LGBT people ? we have a strong and dynamic d & I plan to make sure we talk about it . we be sometimes criticise , and it be not an easy line to follow , as we see with the RAF ' s issue in promote the recruitment of woman . we be guide by the Equality Act 2010 , but we be also guide by the desperate need and importance of have the whole of society in our armed force . I would not appoint a Chief of the General Staff , First Sea Lord or Chief of the Air Staff who do not wholeheartedly believe in have a diverse armed force community . they would not get past I in the appointment process . as I finish this job , I have appoint all the armed force chief . every single one of they embrace that requirement and action it . I mention my political party only to associate the Liberal Democrats with the Defence Secretary ' s comment . I respect he a great deal , and I thank he for what would be refer to as long service and good conduct in another career . my thought be with former LGBT service personnel whose family member die before the policy change and before the apology be make . have there be discussion with homelessness charity , such as St Petrocs in Devon , on identify veteran who be dishonourably discharge and find themselves on the street ? some of the recommendation will go across government , include those on homelessness , which the hon . Gentleman rightly highlight . it will be important that the MOD and the Minister for Defence People , Veterans and Service Families work closely with the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs to make sure that we have that grip not just across national Government , but across local government . if we be really to implement some of these recommendation , we require our approach to involve not only the whole of the government sector , but the charitable sector . I absolutely support the Defence Secretary ' s campaign to put a statue of Dr Turing in Trafalgar Square if that be what he be launch . today ' s apology be particularly welcome and will make a huge difference , but a large part of the community leave the military of their own accord . they be not hound out and they do not have mark on their service record , and this report have to ensure that it take those people into account , because they leave and give up successful long career in the military because they feel that the environment be not supportive of they . will my right hon . friend reassure I and my constituent that the report will make sure that they be keep under consideration ? my hon . friend make not only an important point , but a difficult one . obviously , there be people who be formally discharge , but there be not that many of they . other be elbow out , fit up , set up or push out because of other offence . then there be other who just say , " I be unwelcome and I be leave . " first , those people will know who they be , and I hope they read this report , which be an easy and good one to read . someone say it be long read over the summer , but it be not . it will not take long to read Lord Etherton ' s report , and it be a good report . I hope that those people will also use the Government website and that they will find a way in which they can come forward and talk about their experience . we have to find a way to make it up to they if there be something they need . as the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) say , one of the most humbling and inspiring experience a parliamentarian can have be take part in the armed force parliamentary scheme . early this year , along with colleague , I have the immense privilege of observe our Marines in Norway as part of their cold weather deployment training . we get to meet our proud lesbian , gay and trans service personnel — they be proud to serve our nation , and our nation should be proud of they . they speak of how the culture have rightly change , and I thank the Secretary of State for take part in that culture change and make it happen . however , there be always more to do , so what can his successor do to ensure that all our armed force , from our cadet force onward , be inclusive and free of discrimination ? the first thing to do be to have exposure to everybody in the community and for people to be able to talk about their sexuality and experience without fear or hindrance . my child ' s experience and ability to talk about a range of thing be very different from those of my generation . that be because these thing be much more acceptable to be talk about . every time a soldier in training meet someone from the LGBT community who be sit next door to they or be on a patrol with they , we see that that be the strong way to change the culture . that be the first challenge : let we get more people from the LGBT community join our armed force , as that will help change the culture for good . I , too , thank my right hon . friend for the candour he have display in bring forward this important report , which have be warmly welcome by LGBT + veteran in Carshalton and Wallington . may I press he on the issue of marriage on the defence estate ? I know that three marriage have happen since the change of regulation in 2014 , yet the defence estate still do not allow civil marriage or civil partnership to take place on the estate . that have a particular impact on the LGBT + community . I know that he be already look at this matter , but will he reassure we that the MOD will continue to make this policy more inclusive ? I totally hear what my hon . friend be say . I have just make certain decision on exactly that issue that I can not yet talk about . the relationship between the church and the military be complicated , with respect to church premise and so on . I be happy to write to he to set out the detail . my intention be that these military premise or church premise should be open to administer marriage and so on to people of all orientation . I wish to acknowledge the campaign work of LGBT + veteran and other on this issue , and to add my voice to the thank to Lord Etherton for this excellent report , which be welcome and much need . the Secretary of State commit in his statement to a zero - tolerance approach to LGBT + discrimination in the armed force and he just talk about culture change . as LGBT people , we do not just come out once ; we have to come out over and over again , sometimes several time in one day . I welcome his acknowledgement that LGBT + people join the military be much to be welcome , but LGBT + people can not be responsible for tackle the culture change that be need simply by turn up . will he please outline what the Government be do today to make sure that the culture change we so desperately need in our armed force be take place and that the Government take responsibility for it ? some of what we be do come out of the excellent work do by my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) on woman in the armed force , such as allow people to feel that they can make a complaint about inappropriate behaviour and ensure that inappropriate behaviour be deal with outside the chain of command . the service complaint route use to go via the chain of command , which understandably cause all sort of problem for people about who they complain to and whether they should complain to their boss about their behaviour . part of that route be about say , " if you feel something be inappropriate , you can make a proper complaint right through the system . if senior officer or officer be not act on those complaint , not only will that affect their career , because the ombudsman can rule on that , but something can be do . " first , this be about uphold the standard we wish to have and make sure that unacceptable behaviour be deal with there and then , on the spot . that be the first thing : to make it a welcome environment . the second thing be to make sure that when we be recruit , or when people be in training , an appropriate level of training and support be give to those people . we must then make sure that the environment be equal all the way through . the same go for married quarter and for living accommodation : people must be treat absolutely the same , without any discrimination at all . ultimately , this be about get more people to join , but it be also about those people who be serve feel welcome and not have to come out every few hour or day . the one thing I can tell the House , have be in an infantry regiment , be that the people who know you the good be the people you serve alongside . in those unit , you will not have to come out every hour or every day ; you all know each other . what stick you together be your friendship and your bond , and sometimes that be form under fire . I thank my right hon . friend for come to the House today and for the tone in which he have deliver this statement . may I also tell he that the two friend of mine , one a former naval intelligence officer and the other a non - commission officer in the Army , who have to leave in tragic circumstance will both be very pleased with the apology that he and the Prime Minister have give on behalf of the state ? finally , I wonder whether the Defence Secretary would agree with something that a colonel in the Royal Marines say to I 25 year ago : " in a firefight , I would rather have a gay Marine alongside I who can shoot straight than a straight Marine who can ' t . " as a Scots Guard , I have well not make a comment on the Royal Marines . all I would say to my first Whip when I join this House be that that be the point : the man and woman of our armed force all belong to a common endeavour , which be to keep this country safe . that be what be forget in all those year . what matter be the skill they bring to bear to deal with the enemy . as my hon . Friend say , I would much rather everyone shoot straight . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s tone and the statement itself . everyone in the House welcome that , and the Government ' s commitment be clear . unfortunately , some veteran have take their own life , and other have be discriminate against and be traumatise , and their health have deteriorate . will he pledge to help those who have offer their all for this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland but who have feel on their own for far too long ? the feeling of rejection that those man and woman must have feel will stay with many of they all their life , which be something we have to do our very good to help solve . it must have be awful for people to think that they be help society , and society , at that time , tell they that they do not belong . wherever they be , we should help to look after they and urge the regiment and the veteran association — I be president of the Scots Guards Association in Lancashire — to reach out and ask they to rejoin the family if they feel exclude . the tragedy of those who have take their life go to the heart of the importance of the suicide strategy , which be raise at Prime Minister ' s question today . we must make sure that we be alert to the need of those people who be take their own life and to any sign of rejection , and not just for the time that they be in the military . that conclude proceeding on the statement . the whole House appreciate the determination and sincerity with which the Secretary of State have come to the House today to make this statement himself . if this be his last appearance at the Dispatch Box , as he predict it might be — one never know — then the whole House will join I in wish he all the very good . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it would have be out of order for I to have ask a question during the statement , because I be afraid I be upstairs with some youngster from my constituency at the beginning , but would it be in order for I to join the general approbation of the Secretary of State for Defence ? I note that Elton John have say several time that he have do his last performance , but now that the Secretary of State for Defence be a gay hero , we will all be buy he some LGBT jacket , shirt and rainbow flag . may I make a serious point about the right hon . gentleman ? he have be one of the very few people in this House who have be clear - sight about Russia from the beginning — from the very outset . I feel sometimes that if the whole House have listen to he a bit more on Russia , Ukraine might have be in a well place than it be today . if it be not too obsequious , may I add my obsequie to those of everybody else and praise the Secretary of State . be that in order ? the Chamber will appreciate that it be not in order at all , but I have exercise some leniency , as we come to the end of this long sit period and approach summer , to allow the hon . gentleman to make his remark , because I know that he make they with sincerity . I think that most of we would agree with he . it be not at all in order for I to say from the Chair that I agree with anything , but the Secretary of State know that he leave with the very good wish of the whole of the House of Commons . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . early this morning , a note on parliamentary head notepaper and a mug be send to the press lobby from the Scottish National party leader in Westminster , refer to China ' s one - child policy . Madam Deputy Speaker , this be not what I come to Parliament to do , but sadly I have become use to call out Sinophobia and misogyny in this place and I would be grateful for your guidance . official statistic confirm that as a result of the chinese one - child policy there be 196 million sterilisation and 336 million abortion . it be a policy that break family and lead to infanticide , mostly of baby girl . in 2017 , there be still 33 million more man than there be woman in China . when can our diverse community expect well from member of Parliament , especially in understand the history and trauma of other country ? Madam Deputy Speaker , be it appropriate for the SNP leader in Westminster to use parliamentary stationery to make crass political jibe that speak to Sinophobia and misogyny ? should we , especially the east and south - east asian community , not expect well on this issue ? far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . maybe you could clarify two point for I . be the british Labour party more rattle by a minor breach of the rule than it be by child poverty ? and critically , in June 2018 , the following be say : " the cap remind I of Communist China ' s morally abhorrent one - child policy . now , even the Chinese have abolish that ; perhaps the Tories can bring themselves to follow China ' s example and abolish the two - child cap . " that be say by the deputy leader of the Scottish Labour party . so in answer those two question , maybe we can find the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) the telephone number of the labour sub - branch office in Glasgow . order . neither of these matter be point of order for the Chair . I appreciate that they be matter on which member feel very strongly , and that they wish to find an opportunity to criticise and to debate what be right and what be wrong in this matter . it be not for the Chair to take any responsibility for member ' correspondence with journalist , for example , but I would always , as the Speaker have do many time , urge that responsible language be use by member in this House and outside this House . if the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) have a specific point about the use of parliamentary stationery , the way to deal with that be to write , with evidence , to Mr Speaker , rather than to raise it on the Floor of the House . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . please could you advise I of how I can get hold of a response to my letter to the Minister for Immigration and the international development Minister , date 2 March — that be four and a half month ago — about the ballooning bill of aid for asylum hotel under their watch ? last year , in - donor refugee cost balloon to £ 3 . 7 billion . the cost per person per night in asylum accommodation have go up fivefold in four year and the case backlog still stand at 170 , 000 . as we be a day from recess , can you advise I on how I can get a timely response , Madam Deputy Speaker ? will the hon . Lady clarify her question ? be the letter write personally by she on behalf of a particular constituent ? yes , of course — many constituent have write to I on this matter . no , I be ask the hon . Lady whether the letter be about a name , particular constituent . the letter be write in my capacity in my current role , but it be on behalf of many people who have write to I raise concern . as have be say from the Chair many time — the Speaker have repeatedly say it — it be essential that Ministers answer correspondence in a timeous fashion ; four and half month be too long to wait . however , if every time a Member of Parliament write a general letter about a general matter to a Minister and do not get an immediate response , they raise a point of order here in the House , then we would have point of order for two hour every day . it be not a point of order . I hope that the hon . Lady will get an answer to her letter , but it be not a point of order and member should not come to the Chamber to complain about a general matter that be a matter for debate . offence against the Person Act 1861 ( Sentencing Guidelines ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Sentencing Council to issue sentence guideline in respect of section 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 ; and for connected purpose . I will start by say what the Bill be not do , to avoid any misunderstanding . it be not remove section 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 ; it be not change any of the regulation on abortion set out in the Abortion Act 1967 that allow , in strict and limited circumstance , abortion to take place , include time limit for those procedure . I make absolutely no secret of want to see far more wide - reach reform than the Bill deliver , take woman seek abortion away from the sanction of criminal law , and I believe a great many member of Parliament agree with I on that too . I have draw up that Bill and plan to bring it forward today , but that be not possible , despite widespread cross - party support , so that have to wait , yet again . so what would this Bill do ? this Bill relate solely to sentencing under the Offences against the Persons Act 1861 , the criminal law underpin abortion in the UK . the effect of the Bill would be to ensure that there be sentence guidance in place for judge to use in court . sentence guidance from the Sentencing Council be entirely proper for Parliament to legislate on . while I would prefer complete reform , I also believe that , as parliamentarian , we have a duty to scrutinise how the current law be work and to make the change that be possible when problem emerge . when it come to abortion , we should not be surprised that have a 160 - year - old law underpin a medical procedure cause problem for the court . the law have to evolve to well reflect modern - day Britain . it should be compassionate and apply with an understanding of the medical context of today . at the moment , there be no such sentencing guidance in place , and , with little case law to draw on , we leave judge bear the brunt of try to interpret legislation agree in this place more than 150 year ago , when the world of woman ' s health be a very different place . sentence guidance help to ensure consistency in how the law be apply today . the council ' s found legislation , the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 , be clear that the Sentencing Council must publicly consult on new guidance to ensure that professional and public view be properly take into account and , where necessary , then adjust . we see in the recent case of Carla Foster that the judge specifically cite the lack of guidance in his sentencing remark . if sentencing guidance have be in place , perhaps Ms Foster would not have have to endure week of prison , away from her child , wait for the Court of Appeal to decide yesterday that her initial sentence should be halve and that it should be a suspend sentence , mean that she should not be in prison at all . Dame Victoria Sharp , one of the Appeal Court judge , call in her own word for " compassion not punishment " . if sentencing guidance have be in place for the judge at the initial sentencing , it be possible that this heartbreaking situation could have be avoid altogether . the measure in the Bill already enjoy widespread support . the shadow Leader of the House , whom I can see in her place and whom I inform that I would be refer to she , call for exactly this change just a few week ago and have be clear about the official Opposition ' s support for sentence guideline . follow the sentencing of Carla Foster , she say : " in the wake of this awful case , I hope that the Government will be in a position to take action , at least on sentence guideline . this be too important an issue to play politic on . labour be willing to work with the Government . " — [ Official Report , 15 June 2023 ; Vol . 734 , c . 438 . ] the Government have not bring forward such measure , because — they be absolutely clear on this — any change on the law relate to abortion must be above party politic and come from the Back Benches . that be why I be stand here today , to get action — such as the action that the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) talk about in her remark — for woman up and down the country who be fearful when they read of the plight of Carla Foster ; or who need to consult a doctor about abortion and may have be absolutely unaware of the sentencing guidance gap , or , indeed , of the criminal law that be in place . I hope that the hon . Lady ' s support for sentence guidance extend to my Bill , though of course I understand that it be an issue of conscience . I be extremely grateful to those right hon . and hon . member , from across the House , who have indicate their support for the Bill , include the Father of the House . some have their own experience to draw on , while other have see at first hand , through their constituent , how the current situation do not work . the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , who be in her place , and other have show how distinct and deliberate step be important in change attitude on abortion , and I applaud the work that she do . I believe that this Bill be another distinct step forward from where we be today and would see woman give well certainty , while we wait for fuller reform to achieve agreement in the House . I be also immensely grateful to the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , the Mother of the House , for her full support and expert guidance in how to take forward this Bill with the Sentencing Council . I hope that the Sentencing Council agree to meet we to consider a way forward with the responsible Minister , who I think may be the Minister sit on the Front Bench . it be worth dwell on the context of the 1861 Act for a moment . the reason that law be pass in the first place be to protect woman — woman who be far more likely to die as a result of a barbaric abortion than during childbirth — at a time when woman be forbid by law from even take part in that debate in Parliament . today , thing could not be more different : woman can debate , and regularly do debate , woman ' s health issue . what be even more important be that we now live in a time when abortion be far less dangerous for woman than give birth , so there have be a complete change . the Bill matter because the fair and equal treatment of woman matter . abortion be the only medical procedure in the UK subject to the criminal law . woman who find themselves have an abortion outside the law , for whatever reason , deserve our " compassion not punishment " — to quote the word of that Appeal Court judge — and it be difficult to understand how society would ever be well serve by place a woman in prison after she have experience a pregnancy loss for whatever reason . she deserve our support and compassion , not imprisonment . but these be matter for the Sentencing Council to consult and decide on base on expert knowledge . the Bill I present to Parliament today be not a panacea for the significant difference between the law and medical opinion on abortion , and it do not pretend to be . but the Bill do demonstrate to those whom we expect to interpret the law that we understand that we make it very difficult for they . the Bill be a small step in the right direction to get a well balance between public opinion , medical opinion and the law . I hope that the House will unite to agree that it should proceed . our job as parliamentarian be to find solution , not to define problem . it be to find common ground and to work together to establish consensus where it may not be obvious and easy to find . in the word of the prayer with which we start every session : " lay aside all private interest and prejudice keep in mind " our responsibility to " seek to improve the condition of all mankind " — and indeed of all womankind , too . thank you . I rise with great sadness to oppose this Bill for four very specific reason , on behalf of many member of this House who believe , like the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , that there be much agreement on the fact that there be a problem that need to be resolve , but fear that this approach may end up make thing bad . I start by recognise and respect the work of the right hon . Lady . I have be proud to stand with she on this issue on many different occasion over the year . none the less , our fear be that the Bill fail to solve the issue , and possibly make it bad , by normalise the big problem of all . that be why we have not receive any representation in support of this approach from those work on these issue . the central problem that we face be not that there be no sentencing guideline , but that there be sentencing at all . the Offences against the Person Act 1861 be not a foundation on which any sensible modern law on abortion can be make , because it be not about healthcare . it be legislation that also criminalise place wood on a railway with intent to cause danger , cast stone on a railway carriage , obstruct a clergyman , and assault a seaman . alongside that , it criminalise a healthcare decision . we can be deeply oppose to abortion and still recognise that no other healthcare begin with an offence and then go on to medical regulation . we can also be concern about the conduct of a defendant , as in the recent case that spark all of this . resolute , as we all be , that there should be time limit on abortion , we can still think that the Offences against the Person Act should be repeal . we have other offence for those who seek to force woman to have abortion , and for those who have abortion beyond the term limit . my first reason to oppose this Bill be that sentencing normalise the fact that woman continue to be prosecute under this legislation and so investigate for a crime even if they do not end up in court . sentencing guideline would affect only those woman convict . guideline would do nothing to halt the grow number of woman investigate for have an abortion , stillbirth or miscarriage under this law . freedom of information datum show we that there have be 67 prosecution in the UK in the last 10 year , but many more woman have be investigate . the Home Office tell we that , in 2021 alone , 40 woman be investigate . we currently know of two live prosecution — that be where there have be no decision on whether to charge the woman under this legislation — but sentence guideline would not deal with the hostile atmosphere that woman be face . we can see that in the recent guideline issue by the Chief Coroner on the need to report live birth follow determination , which state : " a lawful termination of pregnancy under the Abortion Act 1967 can trigger the coroner ' s duty to investigate . " that guidance mean that bereaved parent could end up face a coroner ' s inquest , and entangle in the lengthy criminal justice system , because of the connection between reproductive loss and prosecution . that be why a 15 - year - old girl who suffer a stillbirth at 28 week suffer a year - long investigation by the police , which be eventually drop only after a post - mortem find that her pregnancy loss be due to natural cause . she be still under emotional pressure as a result of that . there be no distinction in the law between reproductive loss that be self - induce and prosecution of man who provoke a miscarriage , mean that it lead to the potential prosecution of domestic violence victim . because of this law , woman across the country be have their medical record access and be interview because they have experience baby loss , and because of how section 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act frame how public agency approach woman . my second argument be that , even if we just focus on keep woman out of prison under this outdated legislation , we be still equate abortion with a criminal act , such as damaging property , stalking or theft , by suggest community sentence . indeed , Carla Foster have a suspend sentence that involve 50 day of rehabilitation activity . a woman with a community sentence still have a criminal record . it be still class as a conviction . it remain on the police national computer indefinitely and can be use in future criminal proceeding . it have to be declare to employer and financial institution , and could prohibit future work with child . she could be subject to curfew , oblige to live at a particular address , prohibit from travel overseas or forbid from take part in certain activity in certain venue . she could be disbar as a solicitor . it could affect a Disclosure and Barring Service check , and the ability of employer to discriminate on the basis of criminal conviction mean that woman have abortion could be discriminate against . that approach reinforce the idea that there be shame in have an abortion rather than it be a choice . even if someone think that that be acceptable , my third concern be that , especially since yesterday ' s successful appeal by Carla Foster , we do have case law on which sentencing can be base . we need , as the right hon . member for Basingstoke say , for compassion , not punishment , in the application of this . the Sentencing Council be an independent body , so there be no guarantee that it would agree with the approach that many of we would like to see , and that have be put forward today . it could open a can of worm regard what the sentence could be . frankly , the woman currently face a court case would not be help by the Bill because of the length of time that it take to develop sentencing guideline . for motor offence , it be 11 month . for animal cruelty , it be over a year . for pervert the course of justice — a recent one , in March 2023 — it be also over a year . my final concern be that look at sentencing directly contradict the call for decriminalisation , and the case for equalise the human right of woman in the United Kingdom . woman in Northern Ireland would never face a prosecution , or indeed an investigation , under the legislation because the law have be repeal there . I do not propose to divide the House on the Bill , although I know that there be many opinion about the way forward , because I recognise that behind it be an ambition that we all share , and the current situation be untenable . I can not , however , support the Bill , and I know that many other can not . I urge the Government not to go down this path , but instead to enable the House to have a vote on the Back Benches , as the right hon . Member agree that we should , on whether , as a matter of conscience , to equalise abortion right across the United Kingdom , allow the many of we who vote for such right in Northern Ireland to extend they to our constituent , so that we can uphold the human right of woman everywhere . we know that the public be with we , and that those who oppose abortion on principle will continue to do so whatever the proposal . we also know that the time for real courage and real change be now , because the woman face investigation will not be help by sentence guideline . the woman frighten that their right be at risk need and deserve nothing less . question put and agree to . order , that Dame Maria Miller , Sir Peter Bottomley , Ms Harriet Harman , Caroline Nokes , Sarah Champion , Wera Hobhouse , Tracey Crouch , Dame Caroline Dinenage , Matt Warman , Christine Jardine , Nickie Aiken and Theo Clarke present the Bill . Dame Maria Miller accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 357 ) . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit - ( 1 ) Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of David Rutley relate to Sanctions ; and ( 2 ) the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Penny Mordaunt relate to All - Party parliamentary Groups not later than 90 minute after the commencement of proceeding on that Motion ; such Questions shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; the business on that Motion may be enter upon and proceed with at any hour , though oppose ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply — [ Fay Jones ] . sanction I beg to move , that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 713 ) , date 27 June , a copy of which be lay before this House on 29 June , be approve . the regulation amend the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) Regulations 2019 . the instrument be lay on 29 June 2023 under power in the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 . the measure in the instrument , which enter into force on 30 June 2023 , have be co - ordinated with our international partner , while refine the approach to accommodate the particular circumstance of the UK ' s legal sector . by restrict access to additional service from the UK , they will contribute to increase the pressure on Putin for wage his illegal and brutal war against Ukraine . the measure place further constraint on the russian economy , and therefore Putin ' s war machine . they add force to the large , most substantial package of economic sanction that Russia have ever face . the instrument deliver on the commitment make by the UK Government to ban legal advisory service on specify commercial activity . that will far hamper the ability of russian business to operate internationally . the legislation will make it illegal for any person work in the UK , as well as all british national work abroad , to advise on or facilitate certain commercial activity that would be sanction by the UK Government if they involve a british national or entity , or be take place in the UK . in practice , that will make it hard for Russia to benefit from the UK ' s world - class legal expertise . that go beyond prohibition already in place , which cover a range of professional service , include accountancy , architecture and management consultancy . this late measure demonstrate our determination to ratchet up pressure on Putin for continue his illegal war . although the legislation will close down opportunity for Putin ' s associate and supporter to benefit commercially from the UK ' s legal expertise , it be important that we ensure that legal service can continue to be provide where they contribute to uphold the rule of law and compliance with our sanction framework . by protect the fundamental right to legal representation , we distinguish ourselves from Putin ' s oppressive regime . by ensure that legal advice can continue to be provide for the purpose of compliance with our sanction framework , we enhance the effectiveness of our regulation and intensify the pressure on Putin . legal professional be under a strict obligation to ensure that their service support their client to be sanction - compliant , and do not stray into enable they to circumvent restriction . it have become apparent , however , that the legislation can be interpret as have the unintended consequence of prohibit person in the UK and british national abroad from provide legal advice to client seek to comply with the sanction regime of our international partner . it be not the intent of these regulation to prohibit that type of legal service . UK lawyer should be able to support their client to be sanction - compliant beyond UK law as we work closely with our ally to tighten the net on Russia ' s economy . we have look at this issue thoroughly and , as an immediate response , we be work across Government and alongside representative of the legal sector to implement a general licence that will make it clear that that type of activity can continue . the Minister be address a point that the Law Society have make to quite a few of we , and I guess quite a few of we will be refer to it later in the debate . if this have be primary legislation , we would have table an amendment . be it not normally well for we to do all the scrutiny of this kind of work on primary rather than secondary legislation ? then we can always help the Government to get it right first time . the hon . Gentleman be generous as ever in offer to assist we to make progress . I hope that , as we bring in the secondary legislation , it will be another step towards tighten the pressure on those who would wish to use legal representation for the wrong thing . I welcome the Minister ' s willingness to engage on the general licence ; it be very important to the Law Society , and for good and sound reason . we all share the policy objective , so will she perhaps agree to meet , at both official and ministerial level , with representative of the Law Society so we can thrash out the exact detail and get it right ? I will be happy to do so . I know that we aim to have this in place in the come day . as I say , we be work closely with the legal sector and be grateful for its constructive engagement on this important issue . I be happy to commit to my official meet the Law Society to hear its particular concern and indeed , I have no doubt , offer of its view on how we can make the scheme as effective as possible . once we have issue the licence , we will consider whether amendment to the SI to address the issue be appropriate and necessary . we will do that in conjunction with the legal sector and bring such amendment forward , if need , at the early opportunity . as with all other sanction , this late package have be develop in co - ordination with our international partner . we will continue to work with the legal community to monitor the effect of the legislation to ensure that it be achieve its objective . we will also continue to co - ordinate with our international ally to identify and address any gap or loophole that emerge in our respective sanction regime . to conclude , this late measure demonstrate our determination to target those who participate in or facilitate Putin ' s illegal war of choice . through our sanction regime and those of our ally , Russia be increasingly isolate , cut off from western market , service and supply chain . key sector of the russian economy have take a significant hit and its economic outlook be bleak . the UK Government will use action to intensify the military and economic pressure on Russia until Putin end his brutal invasion of Ukraine . we welcome the clear and continued cross - party support for this action and for the sanction regime . I commend the regulation to the House . I thank the Minister for set out the measure we be debate . as the House rise for recess later this week , I be pleased we be able to meet before that , not only to debate new and welcome sanction measure , but to reiterate our unwavering commitment to and solidarity with Ukraine , its people and its sovereignty . the NATO Vilnius summit last week underscore the strength of feeling across our diplomatic and military alliance that we must stand with Ukraine in all measure — economic , military , humanitarian and diplomatic — until this war be win and provide the guarantee that it need . I be also pleased that the House have the opportunity last week to explore and debate the Foreign Affairs Committee ' s report on illicit finance , the Government ' s response , the need to crack down on dirty russian money within our economy and the serious problem we have have with London as a location for that and the whole ecosystem that have facilitate it over many year . on these measure , I want to make it clear , as I have on many occasion , that we will support the Government where we think they have get thing right on sanction and we will not seek to divide this House on this measure . however , I do have some question for the Minister . More than 500 day into this conflict , it should not be potentially lawful for a UK legal service provider to support commercial activity that advance russian state interest and the interest of those who support the egregious and barbaric war in Ukraine , just because say activity do not have a sufficiently tangible connection to the UK , due to the territorial application of the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) Regulations 2019 . it must be the case that no UK person , or person in the UK , can provide legal advisory service to an activity that would be prohibit under our regime . I hope the Minister can say why it have take so long to bring forward this measure . I accept that the sanction regime be a constantly evolve feast , and we have have this debate many time , but that be obviously a significant potential risk , so I hope she can explain what have happen with the timing . I welcome the Minister ' s clarification regard a general licence and the discussion that will be have . I know that other right hon . and hon . member have express , and will express , concern about the ability to access legal advice for positive purpose , if I may put it that way . on the other hand , I have some question regard licence and exemption that have be grant in the past , include for access to legal service , and the ministerial oversight of those . one particular case be in January this year , when it come to light that the Treasury have issue special licence that allow Prigozhin , the leader of the brutal Wagner Group , exemption and licence to acquire legal support — in fact , I believe it be fly to he in Russia at the time — to sue his critic here in the UK . that be obviously completely unacceptable . I hope that the Minister can explain , give the question that I and other have ask about that , what role minister be now take in the issuing of exemption and licence . the Minister will be involve in develop the general licence that she talk about for legitimate purpose , but at the other end of the spectrum there be an awfully large number of licence that have be grant . perhaps she could write to I and to the House with a full list of licence and exemption that have be grant and for what purpose , and clarify whether Ministers , particularly in her Department , now have oversight of those , or whether that be just be do by official . these be significant matter and we do not want to see anything sneak through that be go to facilitate or aid russian activity . I would also like the Minister to explain how the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation be monitor the utility of the various exemption issue under the sanction regime , and whether they be enhance the regime or potentially , in some instance — I hope this be not the case — undermine it . the OFSI should be undertake constant reflection on and refinement of the regime and ensure that , while we have the strong text for the sanction , their actual application be be do in the most effective way to tackle the aggressor in this case . while I be on the subject of exemption and loophole , in the last Committee debate that we have on such measure the Minister commit to write to I regard some serious concern I raise about third country be use to avoid our sanction regime in a number of product area . that would be interesting in term of the service sector and the legal service we be refer to in this debate , but it also apply to a number of good . I hope she can write to I before the recess with answer to those question , because they be significant . as the House be about to rise for recess , I reiterate the position of the official Opposition , the Labour party , to work with the Government in support of Ukraine , its security , its prosperity and its future , and to co - operate on measure against Russia and those who would aid and abet Putin ' s regime . we must continue to do that and to see that Russia and all those who support Putin lose . our sanction regime and the way they be apply be crucial to that . we must never again allow London to be part of an ecosystem of lawyer , accountant , company formation agent and other who have facilitate the very people behind the russian regime and be ultimately aid and abet Putin . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I welcome the tone and approach of the Minister ' s remark , and I fully understand and support the policy objective of the regulation , as do every decent lawyer in this country . for completeness , I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . we want the UK legal system to retain its reputation as an able , efficient and honest jurisdiction , which it be . however , it be important that we get the detail right , so , with apology from one lawyer to another , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will know that , if I say the detail matter sometimes , there may be a little detail to raise with the Minister in the context of her very welcome assurance that she will meet , and have official meet , to discuss what come next . I appreciate that the regulation have — rightly — have to be develop at pace , and that we have seek to be align with our ally , but there be some bit to which further attention need to be pay . I be grateful to the Law Society of England and Wales for the briefing that it have send to a number of hon . member . give that we all endorse the policy objective that Russia must never be allow to gain from its barbaric and disgraceful invasion of Ukraine , and that russian entity must never be able to gain from it , we must do it in a way that retain the ability of UK - base international law firm to advise , with the high level of professionalism , on the way in which client may wish to divest themselves of interest in Russia , for example , or on the risk or otherwise of potential transaction that might involve an element of a russian entity of one kind of another . it be in everybody ' s interest that they be able to do that , but I be concern , as be the Law Society , that the wording of the regulation , however well intended — I think that they be totally well intended — may have the unintended effect of limit it . in particular , there be concern that the very broad language of the regulation be broad than that of our counterpart in the United States and the EU in term of limitation . the Minister be absolutely right that we should align , so that be something we perhaps now need to revisit . licensing may be one way , and a revise statutory instrument may be another — perhaps the two go together — to align the language I will set out one or two of the practical consequence . the language of new paragraph 8a ( 1 ) ( a ) ( i ) to schedule 3j — I think I have get that right ; it be all in the detail , Madam Deputy Speaker — be quite important . essentially , it prohibit advice that facilitate or enable activity that would be prohibit if it be conduct in the UK or by a UK person — let we call it " UK - prohibit activity " . it then go on to prohibit any advice in relation to , or in connection with , UK - prohibit activity . in that context , " advice " include the provision of legal advice that involve — here be the rub — " the application or interpretation of law " . well , that be pretty much what lawyer do , hopefully : they advise people about the application and interpretation of the law . early advice be the good way to prevent people from get into legal problem and prevent needless litigation . there be , I accept , an exemption cover advice , but , as the Minister will know , there be real concern that the exemption be narrowly draw — too narrow , I would argue . on the face of it , that mean in practical term that british company can not get advice from English and Welsh lawyer on whether their activity will comply with international sanction regime , for example . they could go to american lawyer for that . many American - base law firm have enter the UK legal market . it would be a bizarre situation if one could not go to the UK law firm for that advice but could go to the New York office of the american law firm . I do not think that be the intention behind the policy . we must ensure that the language reflect the intention . in the same way , if , for example , an international company want to know whether a specific activity that it be contemplate for perfectly good and legitimate commercial purpose be prohibit by UK , EU or US sanction — all of which vary somewhat — the UK lawyer can answer on whether or not that activity be prohibit by UK sanction , but once the lawyer have say , " yes it be , " they be not then allow to advise on whether it be prohibit by EU or US sanction . that can not be a sensible or practical approach , and it can not be what the Government actually want to achieve . the whole advantage of UK international law firm be , of course , that they have many multidisciplinary lawyer and people qualified in many jurisdiction . our strength be that people come to we because we can advise on a range of law in a range of jurisdiction . at the moment , however , a lawyer would be commit an offence if they take the obvious step . instead , they have to say , " okay , it be illegal in the UK , but I can not tell you whether it be illegal in the EU or the US . " that be clearly not a situation that anybody want to see . the difficulty be that the language do not reflect the intention . surely , give such advice do not enable or facilitate unlawful activity . it allow a company to know whether , if it do the activity , it might infringe the law , and whether the law be applicable to it . the language do not reflect that policy intention as it stand . another example be that the advice exception in regulation 60DB ( 3 ) be limit to advice on compliance with sanction , and not to other form of compliance advice . the logic be that one seek advice from one ' s lawyer on the whole range of potential legal risk that one might run in take a particular course of commercial activity . the fact will be the same , and may raise question about sanction compliance , but as it stand — this be of real concern to the Law Society — a UK lawyer could supply the client only with advice on sanction , not on whether they comply with other criminal offence . the strict wording of that regulation would , on the face of it , criminalise lawyer give advice on whether that same form of action fall foul not just of sanction , but of anti - money - laundering , anti - bribery and export control law . surely we want any UK lawyer to be able to give one - stop - shop , roll - up advice on all the legal risk that might arise from that activity , but at the moment , once they have establish the first part — that it fall foul of the UK sanction regime — they can not go on and do the obvious and common sense thing of say , " and , by the way , you also fall foul of this , that and the other . " that can not be the intention , but as it stand , that be where we could end up . that be why the general licence be , in the short term , so important . individual licence , which be refer to by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , have be try in the past . not only be there difficulty in how effective they be in policy term , but there be practical difficulty as well . that be where advice about disinvestment come in , for example , because UK company might very properly want to withdraw from transaction involve russian entity or individual . surely we want UK lawyer to be able to advise they fully and frankly on how good to disinvest . but if they have either to be catch by the risk of a criminal sanction or to get an individual licence , we know that Russia — not a rule - of - law country , to put it mildly — be well able to take action to sequester property and prevent the return of asset to british national and british company in a way that we would never countenance in this House . when deal with people of that kind , we do not have that leisure , frankly . once a company have take the decision to disinvest , they want to get the asset out quickly . wait for an individual licence would not make that possible . that be why a general licence , rather than individual licence , be important . that be why it be important to sit down with the Law Society , hear the live experience of law firm in the UK , and get the regime right so that it stick . regrettably , this war , and therefore the sanction , may go on for long than any of we would wish — however long it take to get Ukraine its freedom and to get rid of that wretched regime in the Kremlin — so we must have something that will stand the test of time . that be why I be so anxious for the Minister to engage in detail with the Law Society about this . I have a final example . we could have a situation in which an EU firm base in the UK can go to their Paris office for advice on different term of legal trade from the UK office . that can not be to the advantage of the UK legal system , and it do not help we to align with our ally . I have greatly shorten the briefing that I receive because everyone want to get away for the summer recess . I hope I have flag up some serious practical point . there be an issue of principle , but the detail matter . if we can work together to get that right , I hope we can come back to the House after the recess with the general licence and a revised approach to the SI , which will give we a permanent system through which to bear down on the evil of the russian regime while enable british lawyer , with their expertise , to play their part in that fight . at the moment , they would have one hand tie behind their back , which be not the Government ' s intention . it be always a pleasure to follow the knowledgeable hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . give his legal expertise , I can now take three page out of the speech I be go to deliver , and I hope the Minister be listen . this be a serious issue . for the Scottish National party , our stance have always be clear , unambiguous , and unwavering : we vehemently support the principle of democracy , peace , and the rule of law , and we unyieldingly oppose any entity or individual that would act to undermine those bedrock principle . it be worth recollect the context here . the russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 be a blatant breach of those principle and an affront to the international community . the unjust and unprovoked aggression cause immense pain , loss , and destruction to the people and the critical infrastructure of Ukraine . there be much more that the UK Government could and should do . we have hear from the Labour spokesman about the lack of action , in my view , about Progozhin , and the issue of deal with third country . as we have just hear , the detail be important . the issue need to be properly scope , and the detail need to be agree as quickly as possible . speed have be lack in deliver some of the sanction that be so greatly need . it be in that context that we put our support behind the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2023 , which far the United Kingdom ' s stance that Russia bear full responsibility for the damage it have work in Ukraine . this be not a matter of politic : it be a matter of basic human right and justice . we believe that those who cause harm should be hold accountable and be make to pay restitution . by support the regulation , we be not just vote for sanction : we be vote , ultimately , for justice for Ukraine . we note and support the provision for a defence under section 68 ( 1 ) of the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 relate to the prohibition on exportation of certain good to non - government control area . that thoughtful addition will ensure that sanction do not inadvertently penalise innocent party , and provide a fair balance in extraordinary circumstance . again , we await the legal detail . since the start of Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine , the SNP have consistently back the UK Government ' s sanction regime against the Kremlin . we see the regulation as a natural , necessary and meaningful extension , albeit more can and should be do . in conclusion , the SNP support the regulation . we stand for justice , for peace , and for hold those accountable who disregard those value . we stand with Ukraine and will , as indicate , support the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2023 . I want to comment briefly on the Minister ' s remark about international partner and our relationship with they . the Council of Europe recently hold a summit in Reykjavik , which the UK attend , and we also sign the result declaration . the Council of Europe have always see sanction as a rule of law issue , because Russia have act illegally in invade Ukraine . the Council of Europe have have a tremendously robust response , not least from I : I be the first member to call for Russia to be expel from the Council . the Reykjavik summit ask member state to support it on the rule of law issue , by bring legislation to make sure that the change happen . I be glad to see that we have do that , and we be make a very good change . I hope that the Minister will include the Council of Europe among the international partner with which she will maintain contact , because it have a vast amount of expertise . it be not just I , there be many distinguished member who have enormous expertise in deal with Russia and these issue . I hope that she will both use that and feed into it , because there be a lot we can do — subject to what we have just hear — to set a model that other country can use . it be a joy to follow the hon . member for Henley ( John Howell ) . since we have be in valedictory mood today , with the Secretary of State for Defence early , it be a sadness that the hon . Gentleman will not be with we in the next Parliament . obviously , I want Labour to take every seat in the land , so I would not want to go too far in that . none the less , the hon . Gentleman have be admirable in his work in the Council of Europe in this regard and on human right generally across the continent . our membership of the Council of Europe be an important part of the structure of human right across Europe . it be one of the reason I support our remain in the european convention on human right and adhering to the European Court of Human Rights , which I understand to be a necessary aspect of our membership . I reassure the hon . Gentleman that I hope to stay in the role for another year . long may he persist . I support the measure before we today . the Minister know that I and other member have campaign for as robust a set of sanction as possible . I have be critical sometimes of the process we have use to get there . Oliver Bullough write a splendid book that lay out why it be important to deal not only with financial instrument but with some of the people who have effectively enable other to bypass sanction regime and hide their money from pry eye in the UK . it be a joy to hear the extremely learn hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , not least because he refer to " every decent lawyer " . I detect a characteristic wink at that point , because not every lawyer be decent , m ' lud . I gently suggest — rise — now look what I have do . I have prosecute some less than decent lawyer over the year , so I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point . but he know just how good the english legal system be collectively , and I know he will want to recognise that . I have great admiration for lawyer , especially those who advise I , as be occasionally necessary — [ Laughter . ] it be a serious point : if the UK stand for anything in the world , it be the rule of law . the hon . Gentleman and I have often have to join cause on occasion when we have worry that the front Benches have not quite see thing in exactly the same way as we do . I will not rehearse all the argument , which be lay out so beautifully for the hon . Gentleman and other in the Law Society ' s note . he understand it well than I do . the important point be that all british business should be withdraw from Russia . it be extraordinary that any british business be still do significant business in Russia . I do not wish to make any partisan point , but I think it be still true that Infosys have a substantial presence and have not manage to wind down its presence in Russia . that be worry . mantrac be certainly still operate in Russia , and some of the money it have earn there will have make its way into its recent £ 5 million donation to the conservative party . we should be do more due diligence about these matter . I do not understand how Unilever can still claim that it be only sell Magnum ice cream in Russia because they be an essential item . they might be an essential item for somebody who be go to watch the " Barbie " movie later this year — that sort of fit — but in all seriousness , I honestly do not think that Unilever should still have a significant presence , or any presence , in the Russian Federation . its remain there be a problem . I hope that the Minister will be able to respond to the point about british company be able to advise on how to disinvest as fast as possible . if the regulation be to make that more difficult , that would be a bit of an own goal on our part . I have some other , very minor , point to make . one be that the sanction regime be now get very complex . these be no . 3 , the third regulation in this session . I know that this Session of Parliament have go on a bit — one could argue that the whole of this Parliament have go on a bit , maybe a bit too long — but we be rely on lot of statutory instrument and secondary legislation . the amount of such legislation have grow enormously over the past 20 year , not just since 2010 but before then , and there be a danger that it be very difficult for lawyer to keep up with what the law be . of course , there be no excuse for lawyer to say that they do not know what the law be , but none the less , these regulation come into force on 30 June — they be already in force . that be the problem with the way in which we be legislate these day . when there be a Labour Government , I hope that we will use secondary legislation much less frequently , because we need to be able to amend legislation on the Floor of the House or in Committee to make sure that government do not make silly mistake . I note the subtle difference in the exemption that exist for advice . of course , advice can cover a multitude of sin and be sometimes design to do so , but I note the subtle difference between the exemption grant in the UK , those grant in the US and those grant in the EU . if I hear the Minister correctly , she attribute those to the different legal system that exist in those jurisdiction . that may be true , but I would like she to expand on that and explain why it be necessary for we to make distinction in that way . otherwise , the point make by the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst be absolutely right : an international law firm could just say , " all right , I ' m pop over to Paris , Madrid , Berlin or wherever for the weekend , and we will do it from there . " that would be a mistake . I also think that sanction need to be a stiletto blade , not a blunderbuss , if they be to be truly effective in peel away support from Vladimir Putin within the Russian Federation . in a previous debate on sanction , I refer to the former leader of UKIP . let I be absolutely clear : I have have no correspondence of any kind — electronic , in writing , or digital — with Coutts bank about he , or for that matter about anybody else , because I do not have many constituent who bank with Coutts . I have no idea why Coutts have close his bank account , but I should have be more careful with the word that I use a year ago . the figure I give be for his total income . I think he himself have state that he be pay for his appearance on Russia Today , which be of course a part of the russian state , and he have make clear his respect for Vladimir Putin as a nationalist . however , I do not think that the figure I give be anywhere near the accurate figure , so I apologise if I have inadvertently mislead the House . I have no intention of do so , and I hope that put the record straight . I have hope that this afternoon ' s debate be go to include a debate on the Procedure Committee ' s report into allow all member of the House to correct the record , rather than just Ministers , but that option be not yet available to we . as such , Madam Deputy Speaker , I have rather stretch your generosity in make these comment . I thank all hon . member who have make contribution this afternoon . I will do my good to address the question they have raise , and as ever , where I do not have the information to hand , I will ensure that I write to they . this late measure reflect the reality that legal advisory service can play a fundamental role in facilitate border trade and investment , and that by restrict those service , we will far constrain the russian economy and Putin ' s war chest . while we have work to ensure that Russia can not access our legal expertise in relation to certain commercial activity , we have not hinder work , but have help to provide judicial right and access to justice . we have also not hamper legal advice that facilitate compliance with our sanction network and framework , and we be work to ensure that advice in relation to compliance with the sanction law of our international partner be also permit . I absolutely commit to write to the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) about the question he have raise , include his important point about third - party circumvention risk . discussion and work be ongoing with a number of colleague ; I have be talk with colleague internationally about how we tackle those risk and find tool to address the enforcement challenge they present . as ever , my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) have bring his wisdom to the debate about this important piece of legislation . I will ensure that he and the Law Society be able to discuss their concern about the detail of the general licence in the very near future , conscious — as a number of colleague have say — of the timeframe over which we be keen to move it forward . he make the important point that access to legal advice should be take early to reduce the risk of error or breach . we must ensure that the general licence will work in practice , provide the right support while constrain those who wish to abuse the system . I put on record that the continue leadership of my hon . friend the Member for Henley ( John Howell ) at the Council of Europe be hugely welcome and appreciate by all member across the House . I thank he for his offer of support and for share the expertise that sit in the Council of Europe . as we continue to work in what be a complex and , sadly , ever - change and ever - develop environment , we continue to get ahead of those who wish to abuse the system . it be good to hear the Minister confirm again that she be go to work on the issue that have be raise about the general licence . however , can she say whether Ministers such as herself be actively involve in the issuing of all licence and exemption in relation to our sanction regime , or be it still just be do by official without ministerial sign - off ? obviously , the hon . member would not expect I to discuss the detail of matter that be live and ongoing . however , we work as a team and across Government : while it be the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office that hold the pen , and it be I at the Dispatch Box today , the legislation , work , management and enforcement issue be cover across Whitehall . we all work together very closely on those issue , and as I say , it be a live and continually change environment as we keep track of what we be try to achieve . one part of that , of course , be ensure that enforcement can be monitor . the commitment of £ 50 million follow the integrated review refresh be an important part of that and it will help we build even strong enforcement tool to ensure we make the most effective use of the sanction we bring in . this , Madam Deputy Speaker , be the late edition of our package of sanction . we will continue to use sanction to keep up the pressure until Putin end his horrific , senseless war and Ukraine be allow its territory back to live peacefully once again . will the Minister allow I to intervene before she sit down ? yes , I will . I would just like to put on the record how much we respect and admire the team of roughly 150 people who work in the sanction group . it be not easy work — it be tough to get it right — and they be magnificent . be that in order ? that be in order . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind and thoughtful intervention . they be an extraordinary team — they be work flat out all the time . sadly , until such time as Putin lose this war , we will continue to work flat out to ensure that we have as many sanction tool available to we as possible . in the meantime , I hope and trust that the House will support the regulation . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 713 ) , date 27 June , a copy of which be lay before this House on 29 June , be approve . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Official Statistics that the draft Official Statistics Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 19 June , be approve . electricity that the draft Electricity Capacity ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 12 June , be approve . — ( Steve Double . ) question agree to . all - party parliamentary Groups [ relevant document : guide to the Rules on All - Party Parliamentary Groups approve by the Committee on Standards . ] I call the Minister , Mr Johnny Mercer . [ interruption . ] I beg to move , that this House approve the Eighth Report of the Committee on Standards , Session 2022 - 23 , HC 228 , on All - Party parliamentary Groups : final proposal and , with effect from 16 October , the Rules for All - Party Parliamentary Groups contain in the Annex of that report , subject to any transitional arrangement agree by the Committee on Standards . I think I hear the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) shout " really ? " from a sedentary position , at the thought that I be here for this debate , but he must understand that I have have a deep and long interest in all - party parliamentary group . appg play a valuable role in our parliamentary system . they bring together parliamentarian and external expert to far cross - party consideration of important issue . it be paramount that any new rule do not deter APPGs , particularly those that be self - fund , from meeting , because these forum aid the development of public policy on matter that otherwise may not be consider by Parliament . rather , the new rule should seek to increase transparency , limit undue influence and secure the parliamentary estate , while allow appg to perform their vital function . the Government be grateful to the Standards Committee for review the rule govern these group to ensure that they remain fit for purpose . it be right that we give exist appg an opportunity to comply with the new system , so I be grateful to the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards for outline the need for transitional arrangement to implement the rule . appg be able to play an important role in Parliament by virtue of their informal status , but I believe these group should be hold to high standard and operate in keep with the broad principle share across the Houses , which be that Parliament should be transparent , protect from undue influence , and boast a reputation that be cherish at home and envy abroad . the reform be propose represent an important step towards this objective , and as per the Government ' s response in June , we welcome the Committee ' s consideration of whether the rule on foreign contribution could be strengthen at a later stage . I look forward to this debate , and I commend the motion to the House . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I rise to support the motion . I must confess that I be a little take aback at the brevity of the Minister ' s speech , but the point he make be absolutely right . we be here to support the Standards Committee ' s work . I thank the Leader of the House for bring forward this important motion , and I join the Minister in his full thank to the Standards Committee and of course its Clerks , who we can see have put in a lot of work . this work follow on from previous investigation , such as the report publish in 2013 . I of course agree with the Minister that this motion will help to safeguard Parliament from various thing that could be improper , such as improper lobbying and hostile state actor , and that be why I support it . the Standards Committee be right to have conduct the inquiry now , because the current rule for appg be last agree by this House almost 10 year ago . appg have a long history , and they have make a significant contribution to the life of Parliament . I understand from the 2013 report that the first , create in 1939 , be the parliamentary and Scientific Committee . it be establish to help with the war effort and focus on the big scientific issue of the day over many year ; of course , it still thrive . it be a great example of the long - term focus that appg can have , compare with the short - term thinking of many government . another example of the value of appg be the APPG on autism , with which I have the pleasure of be involve for many year while on the Back Benches . I pay tribute to its former chair , dear Dame Cheryl Gillan , whom we all love and miss very much . it be still one of the big and most active group in Parliament , and much of that be down to Dame Cheryl , with her dedication and her warm and welcoming style , which draw in member from all political party . that be what appg at their good can do . they effectively bring together and organise supporter of a particular issue or country from across both Houses and all party . they provide space for long - term policy development and a strong voice to Back Benchers , and they therefore have a rightful place in our Parliament . however , the Committee find that appg can pose a " significant risk of improper access and influence by commercial entity or by hostile foreign actor " . look down the list of appg , as I do ahead of this debate , there have be a significant rise in their number since we last look at their governance , which make it hard for the House to monitor their practice . the Committee note the " real possibility of appg have be set up at the suggestion of , and as a result of lobby by , a commercial interest . " that be clearly bad practice and — this be the very thing the Standards Committee have be work so hard to prevent with its work in other area — it could enable commercial entity to , in effect , buy access to or the influence of parliamentarian and decision maker . throughout its inquiry , the Committee undertake extensive consultation , receive write and oral evidence and come to clear conclusion , and we have to act now in support of the motion to strengthen how we run appg . I think the two - tier approach to governance and regulation propose by the Committee strike the right balance . it safeguard Parliament where there be the great risk — for example , focus on those with external financial benefit of over £ 1 , 500 in a calendar year , and have a light touch on those that do not . I also support the recommendation that the number of appg an MP can be an officer of be limited , as should be the number of officer per APPG . it be also right that we take a stand and say that no secretariat should be allow to be provide or fund by a foreign Government , and that external member of a secretariat should not be grant parliamentary pass . I think I have understand the report correctly there . this be about we , the House and Parliament clamp down on the risk of improper lobbying . for the record , I be not speak from any particular experience of it have happen , but from the risk that it could , and that be very important . we all have a role to play in maintain Parliament ' s security , and I urge member and secretariat to do their bit and to follow the new rule carefully . I think appg should welcome they , because they be a great opportunity to showcase that we know how to do our work properly and professionally , which can only increase the respectability and credibility of appg . the Committee have say that it will provide an update guide on APPGs , which will consolidate all the exist guidance . I think it be an excellent idea to have that in one accessible place . I suggest that it be send in physical form to every MP ' s office and that copy be make available in the Vote Office and the Library , as well as online . finally , I would like to see these change as just part of a package of reform to restore trust in politic , and in Parliament in particular . the Leader of the House and I have a share desire to increase the transparency of ministerial interest and , for example , to make information on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests more accessible . will the Minister convey to the Leader of the House that I reiterate my offer to support she in bring forward these reform as soon as possible ? in the meantime , I urge everyone to support the motion if the House divide . I think I have to declare an interest because — I have tot they up — I be the chair of nine appg at the moment . ten . all right , the figure may be 10 if I have miss one out , but , in hurriedly put some note together , I could remember nine . I chair the APPG for child , which be a substantial group . over many year , it have produce some report that have lead to change in the law , and I do not think that anybody be go to challenge the legitimacy of that . I chair the 1001 critical day group , or the APPG on conception to age two — first 1001 day . that be the genesis of the Government ' s " good start " policy , bring in by my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , which have play an important part in early year provision . I chair the APPG on archaeology , which brief parliamentarian on change to the law regard the influence of archaeology on the environment , agricultural matter and cultural matter , and it be very active . I chair the British Museum APPG , which meet only yesterday . it have an important job , give that it be this House that establish the British Museum back in the 18th century . when there be serious challenge ahead — the future of collection such as the Elgin marble , for example — this House must have a voice . I chair the APPG for Armenia , which I take on reluctantly from my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) because he be a Minister again . I be tell there would be very little go on , and within a few week Azerbaijan invade Nagorno - Karabakh and Armenia become a very hot topic . I have virtually weekly conversation with the ambassador and other on this subject , so it be an active group . I chair the reform Wilton Park group , an important foreign affair melting pot finance by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . I chair the all - party group on mindfulness , which have do so much good for the mentality , mental health and camaraderie of Members in this House since its formation about 10 year ago , with the strapline of " disagree well " ; that be very relevant , and it be one of the more active group . I chair the all - party group on Tibet , which have be absolutely essential to the whole issue of China ' s abuse of human right not just in Tibet but in Xinjiang and beyond . I chair , too , the all - party group on photography . I take that role on after the murder of our former colleague Sir David Amess . because I be the next name officer , very shortly after his murder I be , disgracefully , contact by the registrar to say , " you must have an egm within 30 day to appoint a new chair , " completely oblivious to the circumstance of the loss of our previous chair . that be how I get to take on that role . the group exist largely to organise the annual photography exhibition , which Mr Speaker very kindly support and will be attend again later in the autumn . so those be my interest — and there be apparently a tenth one that the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) will tell I about . I will therefore automatically be catch under these rule , so I have a double interest . I do not criticise the report , although I disagree with some of its finding , but I think it have go largely under the radar and many member be go to be very surprised if and when it go through that they will be impact . I absolutely take the point from my right hon . friend the Veterans Minister , who I be delighted be here to defend these measure today , that the all - party group system be an important part of Parliament — the report itself say that as well — and that new rule should not deter all - party parliamentary group . I be afraid they will , however , for some good reason and for other , unintended not - so - good reason . may I , through my hon . friend , invite the Minister before he wind up to read page 55 to 74 of the " Guide to Rules " and see how long that be go to take and how sensible it be ? all right then , I will , but my concern be that there have be very little profile for this report and study . I notice that only one Member of Parliament submit write evidence and only one give formal evidence to the Committee , and I can not see that there be any submission or call to give evidence face to face from any chair of all - party group , let alone multiple chair of all - party group . rise — but the Chairman of the Standards Committee be probably about to correct I . yes , I think the hon . Gentleman be refer to the second round . we have a first report , for which quite a lot of people submit evidence — both member of the public and Members of Parliament — and we also do a survey of all Members , which a large number respond to . we have other submission as well , and various Committee Chairs appear before we . I be refer to the second report because we be discuss the second report . because there be quite a gap between this study be initiate and this final report be issue , with final recommendation with imminent implication , many people think this would not happen and might be kick into the long grass . we all have to take responsibility if we have not notice thing , but the fact that very few people take part in the second report suggest there be a large degree of ignorance that it be take place . I agree that there be a problem : there be too many all - party group — over 800 — and I come to that conclusion some year ago when I be invite to the inaugural meeting of the all - party group on meeting . that be not a joke ; it do get establish — although I do not know whether it be still go or whether it have just have one big meeting right from the start . there be a number of all - party group subject that clearly stretch credibility , and the fear be that too many of they be in danger of be hijack by lobby group , commercial trade body and other interest to give they a platform in Parliament that they otherwise would not be able to get . I absolutely understand that that be a problem and something need to be do about it . that demonstrate the case for make it hard to set up appg in the first place and have strict rule for the way they operate and their transparency . everything in the report on transparency , include financial transparency and have a much well check on financial contribution or freebie to certain member , be essential . I have no issue with any of that and will certainly support it . on the issuing of pass , none of the group I be involve in have , to the good of my knowledge , issue pass to any outside body , which I think absolutely go beyond the pale . I agree , too , with have an annual income and expenditure statement and an annual report . those be all sensible recommendation , and there might be a compendium of all the activity that go on through all - party group , which would be a good selling point in highlight why the all - party group be an important part of this House and the work they do . many all - party group , include many I be involve in , commission report . in some case , we act as quasi - Select Committees to take evidence and produce review that be intend specifically to influence government and political party and feed into legislation . they get publicity and be generally a good thing . the hon . Gentleman betray something I have worry about for some time when he refer to quasi - Select Committees , because appg do not have the authority of the whole House . it be a really important distinction that they be not constitute like Select Committees or any other Committee of the House . we have strive very hard to make that important distinction , which be why a specific rubric have to be put on any appg publication say it be not from a formal Committee of the House . that be absolutely right , but although they be not Select Committees they can adopt a Select Committee style in take evidence in order to produce report . the Select Committee system work really well . I have sit on the Select Committee on Home Affairs for nine year , and those Committees be one of the strength of this House , but they can not cover everything . the all - party group can drill down into more specialised , niche issue that a Select Committee would never have the time or capacity to take on , in order to produce a report on something specific . a few year ago the all - party group for child produce a report on stop and search by police of young child . we take some very important evidence and produce a report with recommendation that lead to a change in guidance . so there be a very clear role for do that group , and the then Select Committee on Home Affairs do not have the time or remit to be able to cover the issue . we produce a valuable report that have a clear implication at the end of it . so all of those thing be good , which be why we do not want to throw the baby out with the bathwater . it be sensible to have a two - tier approach for group that have outside funding , but that funding include benefit in kind . the National Children ' s Bureau be the secretariat to the all - party parliamentary group for child . it do not give we any money . it will organise reception occasionally to promote our work , it will pay the hire fee for one of the room here , for example , and it give we its time for free , which be a benefit in kind , but none of we receive any money or any perk because of that . the NCB would certainly be catch by this measure , and so would a lot of small group and charity act as secretariat . on group have a minimum of four officer rather than the unlimited amount at the moment , I have be involve with group that have have large number of officer . we do not necessarily need so many , but four be too few . one strength of all - party group be in the name : they be all - party group . one want to get as many party represent as possible , include in the Lords , as group be make up of member of both Houses . to limit they to four officer may limit representation to only two party — I think it would still apply that they would have to have an Opposition Member as an officer — would not give we a broad spread , so I do not understand the logic of have just four officer . on limit each individual member to be an officer of only six appg , I would instantly fall foul of that . in some case , it may be an excuse for I to be able to say , " I ' m very sorry , I can ' t be a chairman of that anymore " and I can stand down . but the group I have take on — I have give up other in the past , and perhaps there be too many — be on subject in which I have a strong interest , be active and I think serve a good purpose for the House that I would not be a part of otherwise . so I instantly have a problem . if the new rule be come in on 16 October , subject to any transition rule of which we know no detail — the motion state they will come in when we come back after the conference recess — how be that go to work ? the Chairman of the Standards Committee be about to tell I how it be go to work , which may delete my next paragraph . it might be good if the hon . Gentleman wait until I make my speech , because I will lay it all out very clearly . it be print in the document , but group will have to have have an AGM or an extraordinary general meeting , which they can do virtually or by correspondence if they want to , by 31 March next year . therein lie the problem . there be no common year end for all appg . we have the agm of the all - party parliamentary group for photography at the beginning of this week , because yesterday be the end of our year when we have to do that by . there be another group for which I have another two month to hold it . after 16 October , when the agm start come up , which group do I then have to drop to take I down to six or below ? it may be one that I do not necessarily want to drop . the point be , why be we bring in this change at the tail end of a Parliament ? this be quite a significant change and the obvious thing , surely , be to bring it in in the next Parliament , when none of the group will exist until they be form again if there be sufficient interest and a sufficient number of member interested . there may be a large number of member require to set they up — that be a well way of do it . at their genesis , appg , whether they be renew from a previous Parliament or be genuinely new group , need to justify the need for set up that group . that could involve a high threshold of Members need to sign the form and somebody scrutinise in more detail whether it be a credible and legitimate APPG that will serve some positive purpose for the House . this may be slightly unconventional , but what we be deal with actually matter to the House . would it be possible , during this debate , for the Minister and the Whip to consult with the Leader of the House , the official Opposition and the Chair of the Standards Committee , the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , to see whether it be possible for we not to make a decision on the motion today , but to come back to the issue in September ? that would still allow whatever timescale be need , and would allow more mps to be aware of the implication . we also have to hear from the Chairman of the Standards Committee , which will tell we more , but it might be sensible if the Government , the Opposition and the SNP consider not come to a decision , have the debate and then come back in September when mind will be clear and more mp know what be go on . the Father of the House , my constituency neighbour , make a very helpful suggestion . I do not understand the rush in any case . as the motion stand , I can not support it . it would be a bit unusual if we have to force a Division on it — I be not one who usually like to have division on report by the Standards Committee . there be a need for change — I absolutely agree — but I think we be go to be throw the baby out with the bathwater . there will be damage and harm do to APPGs , which be specifically what the Minister say he do not want to happen and go against the thrust of a report that want appg to continue to play their very important role . there be other detail in the new rule , for example put up the quorum for an AGM from five to eight . we all know it be often difficult to get five mp to attend a meeting to form a quorum because of the compete priority in this place , and unwitte mp be literally drag in from the caf é s to boost number . again , I be not entirely sure what that be aim to achieve . we have the idea of have outside chair to chair these agm , but who will those people be ? will Mr Speaker have to create another pool of chair or whatever ? again , I will leave that for the hon . member for Rhondda , if he be go to explain more in his speech . in conclusion , I support reform of the all - party group , because there have be abuse , they be open to abuse and we do not need as many as there be . however , we do need a great many of they and we need great transparency in how they operate . I fear that some of the detail around the implementation of these rule , though well intend , will undoubtedly have the result that many appg will not be able to continue in their current form , and this House will be at a loss for it . that be why I air those point in good faith . have have some experience of be chair or hold other office of all - party group over the year , I can say that the report be a good report , but in its detail it be still lack . I would like the Minister and other to agree that further work need to be do to come back with a more suitable solution . preferably , the whole lot will be put into the next Parliament , which will probably not be that far away , so that we can start afresh without people involve in all - party group now be unwittingly penalise for it . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I have well start by declare an interest , in that , although I be not a chair of an APPG , I be a member of a number of appg , several of which I be an officer for . the appg I be part of include the APPG on Malawi , the APPG on immigration detention , the APPG on HIV and AIDS , the APPG on Gypsies , Travellers and Roma , and the APPG on electoral campaigning transparency , to name just a few . I agree that appg play a significant role in the functioning of this place . as rightly state by the Standards Committee , they keep member inform on a wide range of topic and provide a platform for diverse group that might otherwise be exclude from the political system to present their argument to engage parliamentarian . I can think , for example , of the excellent work by the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , which I join after be contact by constituent whose family life have be devastate by that scandal . it be important for our democracy that member engage with broad society and address topic of wide public interest , but it be clear that the current APPG system lack sufficient transparency and oversight . the exist rule be not stringent enough . currently , all appg must be register and provide funding detail , but many do not produce or make readily available a detailed breakdown . numerous appg have routinely break transparency rule by fail to disclose their financial record or to provide they upon request . that lack of accountability can allow for undisclosed private donor to exert influence . the SNP support strengthen the rule at this point to prevent any undue influence from state actor , commercial entity or dark money through appg , and we back the proposal to do so at the early opportunity . it be vital that we know who fund appg to understand where the influence lie and who be drive the agenda . many appg operate perfectly legitimately and with clear transparency and oversight , but those with more opaque funding stream could mean member be unduly influence by those in the private sector or even hostile state actor , risk corruption and endanger democracy through inadequate scrutiny . analysis by the Guardian and opendemocracy in 2022 — I pay tribute to their work on this — find that more than half of the £ 25 million - worth of donation to appg since 2018 have come from the private sector . over the past four year , for example , arm manufacturer have contribute £ 256 , 000 in cash , service or a combination to appg , and significant donation have be make by large company such as Facebook , Huawei and british American Tobacco . private health and social care company have donate more than £ 1 million to several appg where health - relate issue be discuss , with the funding increase every year . in consider the risk that may be associate with group accept financial benefit , the Committee ' s suggestion of a two - tier approach appear reasonable . I also welcome the report ' s recommendation that all appg should publish an annual income and expenditure statement . although they be currently obligate to provide account on request , half of the 190 appg approach by opendemocracy fail to do so . the Committee ' s propose 28 - day time limit for provide account therefore seem sensible . the additional rule apply to group that receive outside financial benefit total over £ 1 , 500 , which include produce the annual report at the end of the year and agm be chair externally — I look forward to the Chair of the Standards Committee provide more detail on the make - up of those chair — also seem justified . the report also indicate that there be simply too many appg , which make it challenge to ensure adherence to House rule . may I suggest that membership list should be update far more regularly when MPs join and leave appg ? I have experience the frustration of try to remove myself from an APPG and finding , month later , that my name still appear on that list . I wonder whether thought could be give at some stage — perhaps the Standards Committee be look at this — to a more centralised administration system , so that MPs and the public can access more accurate and up - to - date information about membership detail and , indeed , how active a group be . Parliament will always be a target for hostile foreign state , but well regulation and transparency around appg can ensure that they continue to make a positive contribution . of course , country appg help to promote understanding , co - operation and cultural and economic partnership between the UK and other nation , but evidence suggest that some foreign government may be exploit appg to promote their view should raise alarm bell across this place . that also emphasise the need for great regulation . the Committee ' s proposal that group should not be permit to have a secretariat either provide or fund by a foreign Government seem appropriate . it be certainly right that group officer should apply due diligence as to whether a foreign Government may be the eventual funder of a secretariat or other benefit . I note the Government ' s support in particular for that recommendation . I wish that they be a little more willing to require great due diligence on political funding from unincorporated association but that , no doubt , be for another day ' s battle . the Prime Minister speak about his Government ' s mission to ensure integrity , professionalism and accountability at every level . appg perform a key role , but action in this area be clearly necessary to live up to those value and make this place more transparent . I thank the Committee — and the Clerks who support it — for all its work . I know that it have be some effort and the House very much appreciate that . I support the motion . I agree with many of the point make — particularly those make by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) — and fully support the report ' s aim in respect of transparency and financial accountability . however , I have a few concern , similar to those express by my hon . friend . for example , I be the trade envoy to the western Balkans , which be six country . I happen also to be an officer or a member of those six country appg , which I think be advantageous to my role as the trade envoy . it may be that show an interest in those country before I be appoint to be an envoy play a part in my appointment . I do think it be important that I take an interest in those all - party group because they give I wide knowledge and an interest in aspect of those country other than their trade and economy . I be also an officer of a number of other appg , usually because of a personal interest or because they be relevant to my constituency . I be a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Iceland because my constituency be heavily reliant on its trading relationship with Iceland ; thousand of my constituent who work in seafood processing be totally reliant on supply of fish from Iceland . there seem to be a particular logic to that . I be a member of those APPGs because of the trade envoy role , interest in the country or relevance to my constituency , but why should that stop I from be the treasurer of the all - party parliamentary group on heritage rail ? I happen to have a passion for steam railway , some of which be in Wales , I say to the Chair of the Standards Committee . the restriction on membership to six appg be perhaps over - egg the pudding to some extent . there be an issue with transparency in some appg , but we be perhaps look for problem that do not exist . on the issue of 20 member be a member of an all - party group , on the face of it , that would seem perfectly possible . however , some all - party group deal with illness and disease — virtually every illness or disease know to man probably have an all - party group . there be the headline one such as stroke , cancer and so on , but some be rather obscure illness that may have affect member , or their family , who have a particular passion to deal with that and to work with the charity and support group . to find 20 member could be challenge and make it a little more difficult to do that important work . the report say : " there appear to be the real possibility of appg have be set up at the suggestion of , and as a result of lobby by , a commercial interest . " I set up the all - party parliamentary group on freeport a number of year ago because it be a policy concept I want to push that would be beneficial to my constituency and other . we have see the Government adopt the freeport policy around the country . I set that up because I think it be advantageous to my constituency , not because I be be lobby by any commercial interest . however , I be aware that commercial interest be interested in the establishment of freeport — port operator be the obvious candidate . I agree wholeheartedly with the vast majority of what be propose , but , in respect of the point I have make , it go too far . I certainly support the suggestion by the Father of the House that we delay a final decision on this . I call the Chair of the Standards Committee . first , may I put on record my gratitude to the member of the Standards Committee — both the MP member and the seven lay member — to all the Clerks and , in particular in regard to this paper , to James Davies , the registrar , and Philippa Wainwright , the other part of the team run the appg register . we have 762 appg at the moment . it be virtually impossible to have any kind of proper regulation or oversight of they , or examination of whether they be do their job properly when we only have two member of staff , one of whom also do the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . so I pay enormous tribute to they for their work . they try to be as helpful as they possibly can be and to ensure that member do not inadvertently break the rule , because the rule be complicated and there be too many of they . we have rule for what we be allow to do in the Chamber , the code of conduct , the behaviour code and the rule on appg . then there be the stationery rule , the rule of the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority and the ministerial code . all those body be different . frankly , it be very difficult for most member of Parliament to keep up . I be desperately keen , as be the Standards Committee , to try to have rule that be coherent , consistent and , to use a valley word , " tidy " . I use that phrase when we be introduce Ofcom , many year ago , and Hansard render " valley " as " valet " . we do not have many valet in the valley , so Iusb hope people understand what I mean . we be just try to bring a bit of tidiness to the set of rule that we have . some of you may have valet who do that for you — I do not know why I be look at you , Madam Deputy Speaker — or indeed batman , if I be look at the Minister who open the debate . rise — and here come my valet . it do depend on how many Ls there be , and whether there be a t . it do — and I have new hearing aid , so I be now quite precise about what I can hear and what I can not hear in the Chamber . the serious point here be that we have be lobby incessantly , ever since I become Chair of the Committee , for new rule on APPGs , by successive leader of the House , shadow leader of the House , the Speaker , the Speaker in the Lords , Members of the House of Lords — because these be bicameral body — a large number of member of the House of Commons , and external body which have be campaign for change in the rule because they think that the exist rule be far too flimsy and leave we expose to a potential new scandal . I do not like the way in which Sky present the so - call Westminster Accounts . I think that some of that be very unfair to individual member , not least because it lump any financial benefit that an APPG have receive together with the financial interest of the individual member . it look as if some individual member have receive hundred of thousand of pound of financial support which have go into their own pocket , whereas all the APPG be do be try to bring to the attention of Parliament and the voting public an issue relate to , for instance , a medical condition . I be therefore keen to get a new set of APPG rule through . I have listen to everything that have be say in the Chamber , and I hope that I will have answer for pretty much everything . I be now look at the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , because I be rarely able to satisfy he — the Member for Del Monte in his suit over there . he say no . [ laughter . ] one thing the hon . Gentleman say which I think be really important be that there be too many appg . that be true : 762 be just daft . one member — I do not know who it be ; I have not ask — be an officer of 88 group . I admire their dedication , but I do not think that they can possibly exercise due diligence on 88 appg , especially those with financial interest . that be why we want to address the question of how many group someone could be an officer of , and how many officer there should be for each one . I hear what the hon . Member say , and I do not demur . I say at the outset that I think there be too many appg . for example , dozen of they have some connection with child , which be why I recently bring as many of they as possible together to try to establish a common child ' s manifesto . I be contact virtually every week by someone ask whether I would be interested in set up a new all - party group , to which my answer be invariably " no , we have too many already . " we need to merge more of these group into one overarching interest . if there be more scrutiny at the outset , with someone ask , " can we really justify set up this appg ? can it not be part of another one ? " , that would be one way of cut down the number at the beginning of each Parliament when they be set up . that be an idea that we toy with . it be put to we that we should have a gatekeeper who would decide whether there could be , for instance , an all - party group for each of the caribbean country and one for the Caribbean as a whole , and one for each of the overseas territory as well as one for the overseas territory . the danger with that be the question of how to set the criterion for that person to be able to decide . it would mean put a great deal of power in the hand of one individual , and that be why in the end we reject the idea . we have reach a different set of conclusion , which we hope will lead to the same eventual outcome : that someone who currently chair , or be an officer , of three appg in a fairly similar field will say , " do you know what ? I be go to try to get they all to combine , and I want to be the chair of the one . " the guide principle for we have be , first and foremost , that appg be , broadly speak , a good thing , but there be a danger that they can be a very , very bad thing . it be certainly a bad thing if a commercial interest be effectively suborn Parliament , gain a kind of accreditation by virtue of the appg name . I would argue that this get particularly acute when the secretariat be provide by an external body that be not even a charity but a pr company or a lobby company . it seem to I that there be a commercial interest in their make appg just to keep themselves in business , and that be an inappropriate way for we to proceed . it leave we open to real reputational risk for the whole House . I will go through some of the point that have be make , start with those make by the hon . member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) . he say that he be a trade envoy and an officer for six group . I know that some trade envoy have decide no long to be officer of the relevant group because they be the trade envoy who have a relationship with the Government in relation to those country . I gently suggest to he that that be a well , or perhaps more appropriate , way of proceeding . I understand fully why he may have end up be a trade envoy , which be a good thing to be , although I worry about quite how the Government make people trade envoy and retain their commitment to the Government by virtue of do so . I understand that he might have get there because of express his interest through those various group . I would also say to Members that be a member of an all - party group be a perfectly satisfactory way of signify to the country and to their constituent that they be supportive of it . they do not have to be an officer in every instance . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? have the hon . Gentleman be in for the whole of the debate ? [ hon . member : " no . " ] in which case , I will not . I be sorry . rise — the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) be not give way . I be not give way . it be a courtesy to the House that if you be go to start intervene in a debate , you should have be here for the ministerial opener . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think it be within the order of the House not to accept an intervention , but to make a derogatory comment while not accept an intervention do not allow the hon . member who have be refer to to answer back . sorry , could you do that again ? I be suggest that it be all right for the hon . member not to take an intervention , but that to go on to make remark that might be regard as adverse to the person try to intervene when he do not have the opportunity to respond seem unfair . I be not sure that that be a point of order — it be perhaps an opinion — but I think it be courteous for those who be intervene in a debate to have be here for a long time . my feeling about this be that a lot of different view have be express and it be important to have hear the whole debate . I do not think it be unreasonable for the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) to say that the reason he be not allow an intervention be that the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) have not be here for the whole of the debate . he be perfectly within his right to give a reason why he will not take an intervention . have say that , I now feel that I have be discourteous and I be go to give way to the hon . Gentleman . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . the point I be go to make be that there seem to be an issue about the definition of membership of an APPG . my understanding be that anybody who be not a member of the Government be a member of an APPG . the hon . Gentleman himself be once involve in a contested election to become chair of the APPG on Russia , and some 200 member across both Houses we dragoon into voting in that election . they be not register member of that APPG , but they happen to qualify because they be ordinary Members of Parliament . the rule specify that anybody who be not a member of the Government can be a member and an officer of an all - party group . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I remember the occasion when he , among many other , come to a meeting on the top floor and we have about 350 people vote at an appg extraordinary general meeting just to get rid of I — over Russia , ironically enough . the important point the Committee be try to underline be that an all - party parliamentary group should only be an all - party parliamentary group if it have enough support among the 1 , 450 member of this House and the other House to be able to have a proper agm attend by five member , for heaven ' s sake , and with 20 member express support . that be important because , otherwise , it be very easy for an APPG to be run by an individual member on behalf of a commercial interest or in pursuit of a personal agenda , bring along their friend just once a year . that be the evil we be try to address . unfortunately , the propose rule we be be ask to adopt this afternoon say : " a Member of the House of Commons may be an officer of a maximum of six Groups . an APPG must have at least 20 member " . I think the hon . Gentleman be talk about 20 register member , because all member of both Houses , other than member of the Government , be automatically member of appg if they so wish . no , they be not automatically a member of all appg , otherwise every APPG would have 1 , 450 member . the hon . Gentleman need to read the rule and the guide to the rule , both of which be available from the Vote Office , as they make all of this perfectly clear . the point the Committee be try to make be that every APPG should have a properly constitute annual general meeting , should have a limited number of officer — who have full responsibility for the running of the APPG , and for make sure it operate under the rule of the House and do not expose the House to further reputational damage — and should have enough register member on the list it submit each year to be able to qualify as a proper all - party parliamentary group . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) refer to the guide to the rule on all - party parliamentary group . I go out to try to get a copy of this document from the Vote Office and be able to get one copy , but there be no other copy available . the Vote Office be currently try to print more copy . consider how few member there be in the Chamber , it seem most unsatisfactory that we have such a small number of copy of the guide to the rule , which extend to a very large number of page . why can we not all see this before we reach a conclusion ? what be the point of order ? this debate should not conclude until all member present have have an opportunity to read the guide to the rule on all - party parliamentary group , a copy of which be not yet available to every Member . I have receive no other complaint from hon . and right hon . member that they do not have a copy . as the hon . Gentleman say , he have not be here for the whole debate , so he have not hear a lot of the other argument . it be a bit discourteous to keep disrupt the debate in this way . we should allow the Chair of the Standards Committee to finish his speech without interruption through point of order , which be a poor approach when we be have a debate . the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be on the Panel of Chairs , so I hope he would understand . I will come on to the Panel of Chairs a little later . I rather enjoy that point of order , because I think the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be complain that he have a copy of the relevant document that he want . appg be great , but we have too many . there be a great deal of duplication , and I suspect we be all guilty . many of we end up create another new APPG on another new medical condition that be somewhat similar to other appg , and so on . colleague be often a bit naughty in try to make every appg publication look remarkably like a Select Committee report , know perfectly well that , when it be refer to on the " Today " programme or on ITV , the APPG will be refer to almost identically as a " Committee of MPs , " which be unfortunate because we should rigorously protect the authority of Select Committees and official communication of the whole House . as I say early , I sometimes feel that appg be the soft underbelly of the way we do parliamentary lobbying . one Member , who I be not name — I do not even know who it be — be an officer of 88 all - party parliamentary group , and I do not think they could possibly do due diligence on all 88 group . I be not here at the start of the debate . I tune in and have be follow it on the television . I hear the speech from the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , and I find that there be more to this than I have previously realise . I make all the due apology , but I think it be well to make a late intervention than no intervention . the point the Chairman of the Committee make about the quasi - Select Committee report have some substance , but he have to remember that not everybody or every party in this House have an automatic right to be a member of a Select Committee . that privilege be give to the three large party only . the Liberal Democrats , the democratic Unionists , the Green party and other do not have that opportunity to be part of the Select Committee structure . for that reason , our voice be hear through APPGs be very important . the right hon . Gentleman make a very fair point , which I fully take on board . however , ever since appg be first create , the House have repeatedly want to ensure a clear distinction between report produce by a group of mp and one produce officially by the House . that be an important distinction . not every grouping of MPs need to become an APPG . I have chair an APPG on acquire brain injury , and it be often difficult to get it go , because all the Conservatives on it keep on be make minister — they then get sack and then they be make Ministers again . one of they , the right hon . member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) , may be about to become Defence Secretary — I have co - operate with he on this subject for a very long time — and another be the Northern Ireland Secretary . keep APPGs go be sometimes problematic , because the people who be most interested sometimes get other job that mean that they can not take part . but there be no reason why someone can not continue the work without be in an APPG . I be not sure whether the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham be irritated when he keep get text message from appg say , " can you come to Room r for two minute at 2 o ' clock because otherwise we will not be quorate for our AGM . " that be an inappropriate way of do our business . if we can not get five genuinely interested people along to an AGM , it probably should not be an APPG , especially if it have some external financial interest . the danger be that nobody be exercise proper due diligence over the finance . for some of we , appg have become a bit of a tyranny . the hon . Gentleman say that he be chair of nine , and he be also an assiduous member of a Select Committee and he be regularly in the Chamber . it would benefit we all if there be few all - party group and , as I say , there be reputational risk here . the Committee expressly ask I to say that it expect that the rule we be introduce will lead to few all - party group . that be the express intention of what we be do . let I be clear about what we be do . as have be mention , we propose that appg will be able to have only four officer . the intention be to make sure that every one of those officer take a proper interest in the running of the APPG . rather than have 10 vice - chair , four treasurer and all the rest of it , we propose that there be four officer , who be charge with make sure that the group be run properly . we also propose that all appg must have an up - to - date list of 20 supporter — register member . thirdly , we propose that a member can be an officer of only six all - party group , as have be mention . again , part of the reason be that we want these people to be able to exercise due diligence over the running of the group . I be not question the hon . Gentleman here ; I belong to nearly all the all - party group that he chair and he have admirably drive forward issue , include on the British Museum — that be an all - party group that I found . I admire all that work , but we do want to make sure that we do not imperil the reputation of the House . it be David Heathcoat - Amory who set up the British Museum group , but that be neither here nor there . on most of the all - party group where I be chair , I be actually co - chair , so it be not a question of the chair have to do all the work . do he take my point that limit the number of officer to four mean that there will not be such a wide spread of party to make it a genuine all - party parliamentary group ? those four people will now be key and will have great control , accountability and scrutiny over the activity of that group . no , I do not buy that , I be afraid , because what we be try to say be there be officer and there be registered member . all the register member should express an interest in the running of the group , and that will demonstrate the cross - party nature of the body . we recognise that there be many appg where there be no financial interest at all . there be no money or external secretariat ; it be simply do out of the goodness of the office of the individual member . we have leave most of the rule for appg with no financial interest unchanged in all other regard , and the quorum will remain five people . however , we be introduce a quorum of eight for appg where there be a financial interest , and we be say that the chair for an AGM or extraordinary general meeting of those appg will be provide by Mr Speaker , as be request by Mr Speaker and the Lord Speaker . they want a clear , independent body to be able to administrate whether there have be a proper annual general meeting and that all the rule have be abide by . I know that Mr Speaker have have some conversation with the Panel of Chairs . it may be necessary to have a couple more member of the Panel of Chairs . we be fully cognisant of the fact that it will take time for all group to have their agm and extraordinary general meeting to be able to comply with the rule , which be why we be make transitional arrangement , although we want the main body of the rule to apply from 16 October , as the motion say . it might help if I read out the transitional arrangement , because they be important for everybody . they be at the beginning of the document refer to by the hon . member for Christchurch , and they be in the resolution of the Committee yesterday . " ( 1 ) the rule prohibit foreign government from provide or funding ( whether directly or indirectly ) a secretariat come into force with immediate effect on 16 October 2023 . ( 2 ) appg need to comply with any other new rule from their first AGM follow the new rule come into force , or 31 March 2024 , whichever be the early ; except that the additional rule apply to appg that meet the £ 1 , 500 funding threshold will apply only from 31 March 2024 . ( 3 ) appg will be able to hold egm virtually or by correspondence during a transition period ( to meet the requirement for 4 officer and no more ; and to ensure that those officer be officer of no more than 5 other appg ) end on 31 March 2024 . ( 4 ) an audit of compliance will be carry out in April 2024 . any APPG that have not comply with the Rules by 31 March 2024 " — which happen to be Easter Sunday — " will be deregistere . " I hope it be helpful that I have read that out , because we want to make it as clear as we possibly can . when be what the hon . Gentleman have just read out agree ? how be it available to we now ? it be agree yesterday at the Standards Committee . we only know today that this debate be go to be happen today ; we think it be go to be later in the year . it be available on the front page of the document refer to early , " the Guide to the Rules on All - Party Parliamentary Groups " , which be available from the Vote Office . it be agree yesterday , under the authority grant to the Standards Committee . I have " the Guide to the Rules " — I be one of the one who manage to get a copy . I don ' t see it — it be on page 2 . transitional arrangement ? I have read through every other page , start with page 3 — I do not read page 2 . I do not believe any other Member of this Chamber , except for the other member of the Standards Committee , have read that . to take a decision on the arrangement this evening , give the impact it will have on every all - party group , be not necessary , wise or advisable . I think that be a speech . perhaps the hon . Member will be able to catch your eye later , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be conscious that I have speak for quite a long time and I have not intend to do so . rise — I be very happy to give way to the hon . member . those sort of detail be helpful . I understand how the transition arrangement impact the all - party group themselves . however , to take my situation , I will have to give up the next agm come up to get down to a quota of six , and they may not be the agm that I want to give up , but I will have to do so . that mean that I have a problem , do it not ? the thing be that I have a problem , too . we have be work on this and consult the House repeatedly for three year now . we have be repeatedly tell by member that we have to come up with a new set of rule . the new rule that we have produce — all the individual element that have be refer to so far — be available month ago . the Government respond to they , and we publish the Government ' s response to they several week ago , and we have the debate today . I be not convince that , if we be to delay the decision today , we would come up with well rule , or a new version of the debate , in September . rise — I will give way to the hon . Lady , and then I will not give way anymore , because I be keen to leave the stage . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . I wish to start by correct the record . although I be not a stand - alone chair of an all - party group , I be a co - chair . I be remind by the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) and the Father of the House of the BBC all - party parliamentary group . on the requirement for the four officer to be hold jointly and severally liable for compliance with the additional rule for the group , who will they turn to for advice and guidance should they require it ? at present , they would turn to either Philippa Wainwright , who be the registrar of the APPGs , or to James Davis . if they really want to , they could also turn to either Eve Samson , who be the Clerk of the Journals , or Daniel Greenberg , the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards . all of these arrangement have be agree between the Clerks and the two registrar . everyone stand ready to provide people with advice . I know Mr Speaker stand ready to provide chair for agm or extraordinary general meeting when we get back in September . one thing that we have exceptionally allow be that people will be able to do extraordinary general meeting virtually — online — which will make it much easy for people to comply . I will try to stop now . I know that there be some frustration in the House and I fully understand that . as I have say repeatedly to the Leader of the House , the shadow Leader of the House and Mr Speaker , I be not sure that there be an easy consensus to be find on proceed . rise — I be not give way again . I be really sorry , but I have be try to leave the stage for some time . this be the next scandal come down the line . I know that the vast majority of Members want to address the matter . we can not possibly do so if we remain with 762 all - party parliamentary group . that be more than there be member of this House . it be almost as many member as there be in the other place . if a group can not get five people to an AGM , it probably be not really an APPG and should not have the imprimatur that the APPG title guarantee it . I urge the House to support these measure today . actually , the authority be vest in the Committee ; it do not need to be agree to by the House , but we think that it be good for the House to be able to take a view as well . I call the Father of the House . through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I say to the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) that he should use the word " vale " when he say goodbye ? for those who be not here early , we be have a discussion about how " valet " be spell and sound . I have obviously be remiss in not pay enough attention since the publication of the first report on all - party group . that conclude that the risk of " influence by hostile foreign actor through APPGs be real . " it say that there have be " a dramatic increase in the number of appg " , commercial interest and the like . that do not prepare I for the motion , and the conclusion that the Committee come to . the motion contain the word " subject to any transitional arrangement agree by the Committee on Standards . " I have not realise that the Committee would make transitional arrangement without consult we . I do not believe that I see draft proposal that alert I to that . that be my fault . I be not blame the Committee , but I think that the Chair of the Committee be not right that delay a vote on this would not allow for improvement ; it would . have I be able to intervene on the Chair of the Committee , I would have say that I agree wholeheartedly with his analysis , and his starting point about the need for reform . I fear that the proposal will result in a variety of unintended consequence come down the track , but I be prepared to go with they for today if I hear some sort of undertaking , from the Committee or from anywhere else in the House , that there will be a review of they , so that if my fear about unintended consequence prove to be correct we can revisit they , and not just say , " we ' ve do that ; we ' re not go back to it . " we have hear that the Committee could , so to speak , impose the proposal even if the House reject they . I think that we probably should vote on they , just to ensure that member who be pay attention have the chance to express their view . I will vote against they on the basis that they should be review . I be happy to co - operate with the commissioner , the hon . member for Rhondda , the Committee , the Clerks , the Lord Speaker and the Commons Speaker to help to make the improvement that people desire and that be necessary . some implication of the proposal be not improvement ; they be retrogressive . I be try to be helpful to the House . the rule on appg be the prerogative of the Committee . that be already a decision of the House , but we do not want to proceed without the House take a view . I hear quite a lot of discomfort about several element of the proposal . I think that it will look terrible if we decide to pull they this afternoon — it will look as if the House do not want to take action , and that will be see badly . what might be right be that we reassess the issue of transitional arrangement if people want to make representation to we , which the Committee could hear at its first meeting in September . one option be obviously that none of the proposal apply until the next Parliament . the Committee be hesitant about that — I be sorry that this be a long intervention , but I be try to be helpful — only because it might look as if this Parliament be not prepared to put its house in order ; it just want a future set of people to do it . that be potentially helpful . I be grateful , and the House will be as well . if the transitional arrangement concentrate on foreign government , or significant commercial beneficiary , effectively support group , that would be understand . it be the other part that I do not understand . I say that as someone who be ask to chair the Austria all - party parliamentary group when Angus Robertson become leader of the SNP group at Westminster and feel that he could not do it . I stand in and do it , and I remain the chair of that group . in co - operation with the austrian embassy , which provide no money and no resource , we welcome Austrians here . I guess that alternative arrangement for some function of that kind could be make quite easily within the Inter - Parliamentary Union . I be chair of the BBC all - party parliamentary group because one of our colleague become the interim Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . to keep the all - party group go , give the importance of be able to hear from the BBC and liaise with it on controversial and non - controversial issue , I think that it be important to stand in . I be , I think , the chair or co - chair of 12 group . I be the person the hon . member for Rhondda refer to as be an officer of more than 80 group . I could quite cheerfully take he and the House through each of the group and why I be a member of they . [ hon . member : " no ! " ] I will not go through they all , but I will give some illustrative example . I be the parliamentary warden of St Margaret ' s Church on Parliament Square . I see the light on one evening and go into a service , which be the 12 - step addiction service . all kind of people with addiction , whether alcohol , gambling , sex , stealing or whatever else , be give their witness . that give I an interest in 12 - step recovery programme and , when a Member of the House of Lords ask whether I would help to set up an all - party group , I agree . that be one of the group of which I be a co - chair and registered contact , and I think it be worthwhile . the idea that we would necessarily get four member together at the same time or have 20 people register as member be unlikely , but the work do by that group be important to all kind of people inside the House , both member and staff , and outside it . I be once ask by Tristan Garel - Jones , a humanist , whether I , a member of the Ecclesiastical Committee who have be a trustee of christian aid and chairman of the Church of England Children ' s Society , would be prepared to get a humanist group go . I say I would ; I say that I be not a humanist , but it seem to I that it be a line of thought that deserve some kind of parliamentary opportunity . the group have since grow and I be no long a member of it . I could go through the various other group , but there be two that I be keenest on . the first be the group on leasehold and commonhold reform , where for more than 10 year , work first with Jim Fitzpatrick and now with the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , and with the help of the campaign charity Leasehold Knowledge Partnership , we have fight to look after the interest of 6 million residential leaseholder . even in the last couple of day we have have success with the Financial Conduct Authority on try to ensure that those people be not rip off on insurance , commission and the like . that group can get large number of member interested , but not get they all together at the same time . the same apply to the group on park home , which my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) have be in charge of for a long time with Sonia McColl , one of the campaigner . to show the kind of interest that we be up against , when her mobile home be be move from one place to another , it be steal . I have some incredible thing go on . if I be bring down to six chairmanship , I would not be able to do half the good that I do , and I do not always know which group will become important . when one of my hon . friend become a Minister , he ask if I would take on , with the Astronomer Royal , the group on dark sky . we be co - leader of the world in astronomy , and it be important to have parliamentary interest , so that member of the Lords and Commons who be interested can come to meeting and we can liaise with outside group . I think very few of the group I be involve in — although there be some — would not do bad if I be not interested . I say this to the Government , to those on the Front Benches and to the SNP : it be not necessary for this motion to pass . we have be tell it do not matter to Parliament , because the Committee itself can set the rule , but it be possible to get through to the beginning of the next Parliament with suitable transition arrangement that be variation of what be on page 2 of the guide to rule . I think the compromise my hon . friend be put forward will be helpful here . the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , the Chairman of the Committee , be concerned that if we pull this motion now and defer it to the next Parliament , it would look like a cop - out . this matter need to be resolve by this Parliament , but it do not need to be resolve this month . I would certainly ask the Standards Committee to come back with some small revision to part of the rule , particularly the transitional rule that have be query . this be not about the big issue of foreign intervention or transparency , because I think we all agree on those . if the Committee come back with those revision as a matter of urgency in September , the rule could still come in on his timeline — although , frankly , I think that if we resolve the matter now but they do not come in until the next Parliament , most of the problem would go away . I agree , and I hope other have hear what my hon . Friend say . I refer again to page 55 to 74 of the guide to the rule . it may or may not surprise colleague that that be appendix 5 , on data protection and appg — page after page after page of mp who run group tell mp who may be member of the group , or who may be on a mailing list , how we handle their datum . that be one of those thing where we move ten place across , from one thing to another , without anybody on the Standards Committee understanding at all what be be put forward . I do not know whether the Chair of the Standards Committee have experience of try to administer all - party group . get the detail right be important . we try to get it right , and we make some mistake , but to add in an extra 20 page for each group that we may be involve in , even if we be limit to six group , give we more than 100 page to fill in . it be bureaucracy . if the only people who can be member of those group be Members of Parliament , what on earth be we try to do ? that should not be there , and I hope that it be take out . another unintended consequence be that , if a group be allow only four officer , and one of those officer be appoint to the Government , or fall under a bus , the group will be unable to operate until it have have a formal meeting to elect a replacement . do my hon . friend agree that that be so rigid as to be unworkable ? order . this debate have to finish in nine minute , and one more Member wish to speak before the Minister . the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) have be speak for 12 minute , and I would like to give five minute to the hon . member for Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) . first , I believe that the Chairman of the Committee be wrong to say that people be not member of group . we be all member of group . require 20 name to be put down be , again , bureaucratic . secondly , I say to the Chairman : do what I have suggest , which make sense . do not push the motion to a vote now — I will vote against it if he do . whatever the result of that vote , he should consult again . my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) and I , and anybody else who want to , will come in to have a roundtable and solve the problem . I believe in control foreign Government and big commercial interest ; I do not believe in wreck the purpose of all - party group . Most of those I be involve in have no foreign Government or big commercial interest . this have be a fascinating debate — I almost use the word " delay " , but I would not dare to when speak about the Father of the House . in the few minute I have , let I try to make the case against a vote . I be sure that my hon . friend the Chair of the Committee have listen — we all have — and maybe some refinement can be achieve . my hon . friend might have make a strong case if he have recall to the House the distinction that his report make between two type of all - party group . many of they be benign , as we have hear . when I come to Parliament in 1996 through a by - election , they seem relatively benign to I , but then I work twice in Government — in no . 10 and the Cabinet Office — and then for 10 year on the Opposition Front Bench . over the year , I reflect on the asymmetry of power between the people who have money and , as a result , access to power , include access to this place , and the million of people around the country who also have interest but be not always hear . I therefore resign from every APPG — I may be the only person here who be not in a single one . maybe Members will say that I be not a very effective MP , but it seem to I that , if I want to speak to mps , commercial interest , or private and civil society group , I be capable of do so without be in an APPG . on the other hand , I would be happy to be party to many of the group that have be mention today , which seem benign . however — and this be the point that I think stick in the craw — commercial interest have dominate so much of our political life that that asymmetry of power and access to wealth and to this place be so profound that it be eat away at the body politic itself . we have funding come from the arm industry , the tobacco industry , polluter , petrochemical , pharmaceutical , private healthcare and so on . they be all put money into appg . member might ask , " well , what ' s wrong with that ? " I be not against the arm industry — I be not a pacifist — but it be one of the large beneficiary of state procurement with taxpayer ' money . the private sector in health have an interest in try to undermine the way in which the health service work . Tobacco be clearly regularly the subject of regulation . they all have access to the House and to member of Parliament simply because they have the capacity to buy influence through the appg system . I be not suggest that anything about that be corrupt , but people outside , such as Peter , who I meet yesterday in my constituency , where the local bank have close — he be 88 year old and nearly blind — want to know that we operate on their behalf and not purely in the interest of large commercial operator . then there be the problem of foreign influence . the Committee make it clear in the report that foreign country have not only attempt to influence our Parliament through appg , but succeed in do so . some hostile country , as we would define they , have seek to influence , but it be not just they . from the news today , we know that Britain be in competition with Spain over the location of a battery factory — I be glad we have get it for the UK . there be a Spain APPG , and I do not suggest in any way that it be malign , but foreign country — ally or not — have an interest in understand how our Parliament work . I be glad that the Committee have recommend change . if we can get through today without a vote against , the Committee can go away and reflect on the debate and tackle the malign aspect of appg . Parliament would then be in a much well place . I will be very brief . it have be a fascinating debate and there be strongly hold view on all side . the Committee have be task with look at how we tackle this problem , and I think everyone agree there be an issue with appg . I urge colleague not to divide today — again , I will try to be helpful . if we vote down the motion today , it will mean that we can not even take action on tell appg that they can not take money from foreign government and I think that that would be a terrible mistake . if we carry the motion today , I undertake , have listen to all the contribution , that , at the next meeting of the Committee in September , we will make such adjustment as we think suitable — we be entitle to do so under the rule — to meet some of the issue that member have raise . I would be grateful if member could write to I with specific suggestion that they think might help , but we might also revisit the idea of when the transitional period will end . I strongly urge member to take that course of action . vote down the motion would be extremely self - defeat . I hope that what the Chair of the Committee have just say can be interpret as include not only the transitional arrangement , but some of the minor arrangement that be no threat to the major purpose behind this . I be sure the Chair of the Committee have hear that remark — I have take my hearing aid out , but I do hear what the Father of the House say . fantastic . I commend the motion to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House approve the Eighth Report of the Committee on Standards , Session 2022 – 23 , HC 228 , on All - Party parliamentary Groups : final proposal and , with effect from 16 October , the Rules for All - Party Parliamentary Groups contain in the Annex of that report , subject to any transitional arrangement agree by the Committee on Standards . Petition - Barclays Kidsgrove today , I be present my petition , which have gather 522 signature and counting . resident and business of the great town of Kidsgrove and surround area of Talke , Newchapel , Butt Lane , Goldenhill and Tunstall be rightly outraged when Barclays announce the closure of its Kidsgrove branch . many of my constituent — some of whom be elderly and vulnerable — rely on the face - to - face service provide by Barclays Kidsgrove , and the closure would leave the entire constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke with just one physical bank . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Barclays in order to keep their branch open in Kidsgrove . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North , declare that follow the plan closure by Barclays of their bank branch in Kidsgrove , this would leave the constituency with just one physical bank . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government work with Barclays in order to keep their branch open in Kidsgrove . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002848 ] Retail Crime Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) I appreciate the opportunity to open this Adjournment debate so early in the day . at the outset , I want to register the fact that I be a member and officer of the all - party parliamentary group on retail crime . give the debate that we have just have , it be very important that I do so . I have no pecuniary interest in that matter : it be about ensure that our high street be protect , and that parliamentarian be aware of issue that be important to high street independent retailer and consumer . I believe that the APPG play a vital role in do that and in give a voice to voiceless people on those important issue . I thank the British Independent Retailers Association , which be one of the consumer voice for thousand of retail shop across the length and breadth of the United Kingdom . it try to make representation for those group and bring together their view . I also thank the Association of Convenience Stores , which represent thousand of business across the country — small business , shopkeeper and trader — and aim to make sure that their issue be properly represent . I will make a prediction , Madam Deputy Speaker : my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) will intervene on I at some point this evening . I think it be important that that happen , and I look forward to it , but I be glad that other colleague have indicate their interest in this matter , because it be something that affect the entire United Kingdom and every single one of its component part : Scotland , Wales , England and Northern Ireland . this be a matter of concern because , quite frankly , the high street be under threat from a host of thing . the modern way in which we shop have drive people from actual shopping to online shopping , which have an impact on retail trade . that , in turn , have an impact on the issue that I hope to bring to the attention of the House : retail crime . survey after survey show that the public feel it be important that we have a thriving local high street , and that they prefer to shop at small independent business that be unique — that have a connection to the local community and offer uniqueness , opportunity and , importantly , choice to the consumer . however , independent retail shop such as those represent by the British Independent Retailers Association have indicate that they be under threat from a number of challenge . those business be work on tight and tight margin , not only because of the lack of a level playing field with online retailer , but because of retail crime . retail crime be not a victimless crime : it cost the UK economy approximately £ 1 . 9 billion a year , and police it and put protection in place cost business about £ 600 million a year . I congratulate the hon . member on securing tonight ' s Adjournment debate . something I have note from conversation with retail worker in my constituency be a reduction in the provision of security guard by many company , despite increase crime rate . while I understand the budgetary consideration , do he agree that company need to take their duty of care to both worker and customer more seriously ? I thank the hon . member for raise that point . the protection of worker be very important to we all — I suppose we could all recount story where member of staff in high street shop have be verbally or physically abuse . that have to be take seriously . of course , with crime increase , the availability of cash have also deplete . atm have move inside shop and away from bank because bank on the high street have close , and consumer be now charge for take their money out of those cash machine . all those knock - on effect have an impact on retail trade and crime up and down the country . those matter will bear heavily on shop . I want to put that statistic on record again : retail crime cost the UK economy £ 1 . 9 billion a year , and it cost business about £ 600 million a year — over half a billion pound — to put protection in place . retailer across the UK report that one of the big threat to their business be customer theft , which come as no surprise . customer theft affect the productivity and competitiveness of small shop , not least because if those shop make a claim against their insurance , their premium increase . because they be work on margin of 4 % to 5 % , any theft impact the profitability of a business . so a shopkeeper or retailer be actually discourage from claim off their insurance , which be there to protect they from this , because it will have such an impact on their profit margin that it could ultimately put they out of business , and that matter be incredibly important . of course , we all know that the cost of living crisis mean that more people be desperate , and despair can cause desperate measure . however , that can not mean people have free rein . on that point , I for one will not draw a distinction in say that , because there be a cost of living crisis , that will make people want to steal . that be not the nature of the average citizen in this kingdom . the average citizen in this kingdom be good people and they want to do good thing . but there be increase pressure that drive other people to crime and I think we have to be very clear about that . the cost of living crisis be affect everyone and it be affect shop . More people have less to spend and , if retail crime be leave unchecked , business will just buckle and fold . retailer do take responsibility and arm themselves against this type of crime by invest in loss prevention measure , as the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Margaret Ferrier ) have say . loss prevention measure include CCTV , special mirror , panic alarm , shutter , high - value item secure behind counter and overhead gantry . however , many independent business do not have the financial capability or the size of store to invest in the same way that large national chain company be able to do and that have a physical security presence . even if they do , the £ 1 . 9 billion cost be pass on to the consumer . again , that highlight that this will drive the cost of live crisis even far , so it be a vicious circle . we in this House have an opportunity to challenge it and I hope the Minister , through his action — I know that the Minister be committed to this — have the ability to help to break that vicious chain . in addition to the financial loss , there be also the emotional impact . if the shop worker be unable to go back to work after they have be verbally abuse , spat at or physically abuse , that have a dire impact on the economy of that family or of those people . the fact be that 47 % of retailer have report that vulnerable customer be not visit their shop at night due to the fear of crime , which again reduce their ability to participate in the community , because shop be about community . they be about the high street flourish and about people within the community meeting and greeting , and engage in business . first , can I congratulate my honourable colleague and good friend ? he be right to outline all the thing that shop can do in relation to , no . 1 , safety for their worker and , no . 2 , safety for their customer . I have be the representative for Strangford in this House since 2010 , but I be a Member of the Legislative Assembly before that and a councillor . over those year , I have watch the shop in my constituency and see shop worker who have be verbally abuse , who have be attack with knife and who have have to call the police after have be beat up in their shop . yet , with all the precaution that be take in a shop , and it be right to take those precaution , it only ever work if the police be accessible , and the problem for we in many case be that the police be so busy that they be not able to attend incident in shop at the time when the people need they to be there . CCTV can retain the evidence , but the police need to be there . have my hon . Friend experience that in his constituency as well ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I think he have over 26 or 27 year of elect experience between these two body , and with that on Ards Council , over 30 . I think it be tell that he have probably , like I , see an increase in this and an increase in the threat to shop . of course , that have be impact by the thing I mention early : the change in shopping habit with online shopping and therefore the inability sometimes to invest in some of these issue . everyone who work in a shop have the right to feel safe behind their counter and that their livelihood be not under threat . that be why I be pleased to be a co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on retail crime , safe and sustainable high street and to be lead on this debate and push the matter forward . we want to ensure that high street remain at the heart of our community , but unless shop theft be regard as a serious crime , it will continue to grow . we need to flag up that this be not shoplift and this be not petty ; it be serious and at time organise and it must be address . we be talk here about serious and organised crime : this be a serious crime and we must deal with it . I go through the history of parliamentary question ask on this issue . from the response to a write question by the hon . member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) to the Ministry of Justice in 2018 we learn that a perpetrator of retail crime would , appallingly , have to be convict 30 time before they be give a custodial sentence , up from 27 in 2017 . in 2016 , one offender receive their first custodial sentence after — wait for it — 435 previous offence ; in 2017 , the figure be 279 previous offence , and in 2018 it be 287 previous offence . for a prolific daily offender it take hundred and hundred of offence before they receive a custodial sentence . what message do that send out to the kleptomaniac and the person who say , " I just need that item " ? it send the message that they will probably get away with it . that be not good enough , and this issue be not be treat seriously enough . it be therefore no surprise that accord to the British Retail Consortium only 15 % of shoplifting crime be report , and a majority of business — over 56 % — say that they believe the police operate " poorly " or " very poorly " when deal with retail crime . I understand that . I deal with the police regularly in my constituency , and this refer to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . talk exclusively about Northern Ireland , when police budget have be drive down and when the chief constable rightly put out the message that people will notice the lack of policing because those budget have be drive down , this sort of crime be only go to go one way — up . I know the situation in England and Wales be slightly different because the police here have be give additional support , which be very welcome . I would love for that support to be cross - apply to Northern Ireland . I have deliberately not make this debate specifically on Northern Ireland because that would let the Government take the easy path of say that call the Assembly back would lead to this be sort out . that be not the resolution , however ; this be about budgetary support from the Home Office for police . we do not have that support and we require it . so what need to happen ? all of this mean that the retail industry feel largely unprotected . unfortunately , that be the case across the entire country . from Abbott ' s in Devon to mackay of Cambridge and across to Fermanagh in Ulster , many member of the British Independent Retail Association have be campaign on retail crime and have give evidence directly to the Home Office on this issue . they have find that , even with video evidence , there just be not the interest or imperative for some of the authority some of the time to get involve . they feel ignore and let down . we must address that , because it be not in the interest of we as lawmaker or of those of we who want this country to flourish . we want to make sure that the law be see to apply , be see to apply fairly and , where it have to be , be see to apply strictly and to punish people engage in this crime . reduction in resource available to police force be undoubtedly pose challenge , but , more pertinently , there be still a lack of consistency in response to retail crime across the country . this have not happen by introduce the crazy £ 200 arbitrary figure that the Government set in the guideline to the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 , which advise police force that they do not need to respond if the value steal be below that figure . a write question from the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) , who be a fellow vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on retail crime , safe and sustainable high street , show that the percentage of shop theft deal with by the justice system stand at 13 % , down from 36 % . that be simply not acceptable and I hope the Minister agree . prosecute shoplifting need to be quick , easy and cheap from the point of view of police force and retailer . with the use of compelling CCTV evidence and technology , process can and should be modernise to increase the conviction rate . at the moment , datum protection often mean that shoplifter be protect from identification , even though they be a danger to the public and other retail business . that need to change . I be not say that we need to put " want " poster up all over the country , but sometimes we feel like that when we know that a particular person in our village or high street be a menace . in the town of Ballymena , the shop have a radio connection so that when certain people be see in the town it go around like wildfire : " so - and - so ' s in the town today . try to prevent they come into your shop and , more importantly , be alert and make sure they don ' t do it . " when an arrest be make , the punishment must reflect the seriousness of the crime . with that in mind , it would be much well if part of the process for report this type of crime be a mandatory victim impact statement so the court can hear the dilemma shop owner and shopworker be place in and the pain they feel . it would help to ensure that criminal be more likely to get the sentence they deserve if the real impact of their crime be lay before the court and the judge hear the impact it have have on the community . all retail crime need to be treat seriously . we need to expunge the word , " this be just shoplift " . it be not . that phrase have to be remove from our lexicon . that type of terminology imply that it be somehow less of a crime and not as important . I will leave those thought with the Minister . I understand that the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) wish to make a contribution . he speak to I early behind Mr Speaker ' s Chair and I be more than happy to agree to that . in conclusion , this be an important issue on which we can have cross - party co - operation . let we show retailer that that be the case and implement these simple solution that will help our retailer live and thrive , and help the high street thrive again . I be very grateful to the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) for let I make a short — perhaps uncharacteristically short , some might say — contribution rather than intervention . I agree with everything he say . I just want to focus on one particular aspect , which be the use of security guard in shop and a recent incident that happen in my constituency , and also attack on retail worker . the Home Affairs Committee do a report on that a little while ago and push to make it an aggravated crime , in particular when retail worker be attack because they refuse to sell restrict good such as alcohol or tobacco to people because of their age and be effectively police that in place of the state . I have an incident in my constituency a couple of week ago that go viral for all the wrong reason . I will not go into great detail , because although it be not currently subject to any legal action it may become so . a Co - op store in my constituency have , I be afraid , something of a reputation for shoplifting , particularly by gang of young people who have be cause problem in an area close to a railway line recently . somebody , a teenager , be drunk and blatantly shoplift in front of a security guard who decline to do anything about it . a member of the public step in to say , " hold on , you shouldn ' t be do that . " she be assault and then the teenager legge it . somebody who have witness that then drive around the corner , where there be a police car with a pcso sit in it . he pull up to the police car and happen to have his dashcam on . he record a conversation where he say , " you need to get round to the Co - op sharpish , because there be an incident go on " , only for the officer — I be not go to pre - judge , because this incident be be look at — basically to say , " I can not get involve . " what be suppose to happen there ? obviously the police need to be call and should intervene , but they have not arrive at that stage , although they do later . a member of the public be be attack . a security guard who have be employ by the Co - op to look after the good in that store should surely have intervene . the Co - op be a good store , a good employer and it do some good thing . the Co - op lobby member of the Home Affairs Committee and we take evidence from it in particular about attack on retail worker , but it need to do its bit , too . we be tell that retail worker would be fit with bodycam , so that they could record the evidence to prosecute people . I have to say that in Sussex , largely down to our police commissioner , Katy Bourne , the Co - op have take the lead on take shoplifting — or however we want to term it , and I entirely agree with the hon . member for North Antrim that we should not downplay the importance of the act . it be be take far more seriously , and the police will now respond to shoplifting incident more rapidly and with great seriousness than they perhaps have in the past . it be not enough , but it be well than it be . the hon . Gentleman be make a valuable point , and I be delighted that these proactive measure be be take . one of the point that concern I be that some shop and business will not be able to afford to take they . that be the problem . we have get to have something holistic that allow the small retailer the same benefit as those retailer that be well off . what he talk about be an expediential step in the right direction . absolutely . I agree with everything that the hon . Gentleman say early about how we underplay the significance of this issue , which act as a green light for other people to come in say , " nobody be be prosecute . " if , as in the case the hon . Gentleman mention , it be take 400 time before somebody be actually incarcerate , it send out a strong message that nick from a supermarket or a store be fairly easy and people will probably get away with it . I be afraid that be the message that have be send out from store such as the one I have mention . they be not do enough to prevent shoplifting by employ people to intervene — where they do employ security guard — so that a clear message go out , say , " we take shoplift seriously here , so please do not try it . " my point be that company such as the Co - op need to employ security guard where there be a problem , but they need to be security guard who can intervene . there be nothing in the law that would stop that security guard intervene , restrain the person responsible for the incident I just mention , and detain they until a police officer arrive and can take appropriate action . they choose not to , and that be policy in certain store . that be not protect the good in the store or member of the public who be in danger , and , in this case , be assault by this person , allegedly . it be also not protect the staff . my ask out of all of this be that the police do more . we need to do more to up the conviction rate to show that this be an important crime . store , particularly large store , need to do more to ensure that where they do employ security guard , they be security guard with a purpose who do not just stand there and say , " I can not intervene " , which be completely and utterly useless . another branch in my constituency do not employ security guard at all . on Friday evening , as I have recently find out , two young woman be in charge of that store . People be come in , potentially aggressive or drunk or to commit crime . retailer , particularly the big one , need to take this issue seriously and step up to the mark if they want to protect their customer and their good , and particularly if they want to protect their staff . I hope that the Co - op have hear that , because I have invite it to come down urgently to my constituency to talk about the problem that we have with store in the area . it be send out entirely the wrong message and create a big problem for the future . I be grateful for the opportunity to hijack and leap on this debate , because it be an important subject that be not treat with the importance that it need . I be , as always , grateful to the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) for secure this important debate . it be of course relevant to my ministerial responsibility , but I should add that my first formal pay employment at the age of about 16 be in a supermarket in south London , close to my constituency , so I greatly sympathise with the issue raise . year later , I run a business that supply convenience store up and down the country , so it be a topic close to my heart . I would like to start by say clearly that any form of retail crime be completely unacceptable . I agree with the hon . member about the importance of emphasise that this be a serious form of crime and that it should not , at any point , be dismiss or treat by the police or anyone else as somehow minor or to be disregard . that be important because shop worker often get assault , which be serious for they . the hon . Member point out the enormous financial loss that result from widespread shoplifting and , if it be leave unchecked , it simply escalate . what might start off as pilfer or what some would wrongly describe as low - level theft can escalate into something much more serious and widespread . we have see that elsewhere in the world — I think in particular about San Francisco , as well as other american city — where both the police and store security guard appear not to intervene and , as a consequence , store be raid and steal from on a large scale multiple time a day . in San Francisco , a number of shop have have to close down completely because shoplifting have become so rampant and out of control . for all those reason , it need to be take extremely seriously . there be a very compelling case for do that . the Government do take it seriously — I certainly do , as do the Home Secretary . in fact , just a couple of day ago — I think it be on Monday — I chair a meeting of the national retail crime steering group , bring together the retail industry and law enforcement to sharpen our response to retail crime . it be attend by , among other , the British Retail Consortium , the Association of Convenience Stores and representative of all kind of retailer , as well as police and crime commissioner and various people from the police family . we discuss a number of thing , one of which be the impact of section 156 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , which make assault a public - face worker — particularly retail worker , but also other , such as bus driver — a statutory aggravating factor . that , again , be design to send a signal to the public as well as to the police and the judiciary that such crime be take seriously . during that meeting , we consider an article that appear over the weekend in the Times by Dame Sharon White , the chair of John Lewis , raise concern about this matter . we talk about the need for a proper police response at all time when shoplifting occur . the hon . member mention resource . of course , we now have more police officer across England and Wales than at any point in history — 149 , 572 police officer , which be about 3 , 500 more than the previous peak in 2010 — so there be extra resource , certainly in England and Wales . I take his point about Northern Ireland be a bit different . with all those officer in place , I do expect , as Policing Minister , an appropriate response , by which I mean that proper investigation should occur , as do the public and member of this House . there be often CCTV footage of somebody shoplift . we now have extremely advanced and capable mean of matching image take on CCTV camera against the record hold on the police national database , and there be often a match . that be what I would expect to happen in every case . where there be a lead , I would expect it to be follow up . similarly , I would expect an appropriate police response where an incident be unfold of the kind that the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) mention . I would expect the police to attend . from what I have see in the video he refer to , it be not handle appropriately . where an incident be unfold , the police should respond . if the police need to attend to gather evidence that require their physical attendance , they should do that . obviously , the police be operationally independent and I do not have the power to direct they , nor should I . however , I will convene a further meeting with the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead in this area , together with the British Retail Consortium , the Association of Convenience Stores and other , to make sure that there be an appropriate response at all time , that those crime be investigate and prevent , and that there be appropriate prosecutorial follow - up . under section 176 of the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 , where the shoplifting relate to good under £ 200 in value and the defendant plead guilty and do not want the case hear in a Crown court , it be treat as summary only . in fact , the police can charge it . that change be make , but there be categorically no requirement set out in legislation or guidance that offence where the amount of good steal be under £ 200 should in any way be ignore . they should certainly not be ignore . I welcome the Minister ' s point , which need to be drive home to local police service and , importantly , to shop owner . on the group that he set up and be take advice from , it be brilliant that progress will be make , but I encourage he to invite the British Independent Retailers Association and the Association of Convenience Stores to that group , so that small business can have their voice hear . the Association of Convenience Stores be at the meeting on Monday and will come to the subsequent meeting that I refer to . I will be happy to invite the other group that the hon . Gentleman refer to . official be listen and will make sure that the invitation be extend . to repeat the point on good that be steal with a value under £ 200 , the previous Policing Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , write to all chief constable and police and crime commissioner to make it clear that section 176 do not restrain the police ' s ability to arrest and prosecute . far to that , in 2020 the National Business Crime Centre survey police force in England and Wales , ask if they have a policy of not respond to shoplifting where good be worth less than £ 200 . no police force say that it have any such policy , which be reassuring . however , I want to make sure that the practice on the ground be appropriate . I be concern by the point raise by Dame Sharon White , the chair of John Lewis , in her article in the Times over the weekend , say that she feel the police response be not adequate . that be why I will have further discussion with the relevant NPCC lead and other in the near future . I would like to address the short but excellent speech by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham . I have touch on the incident he mention , but he also make a point about security guard , and he be right to say that even though they be not warrant police officer , security guard have the right , under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 , to physically intervene when there be no police constable on the scene and a crime be be commit . they can make a citizen ' s arrest , as any member of the public can . interestingly , I be refresh my memory about section 176 of the 2014 Act , which I mention . when the crime of steal good worth less than £ 200 be make summary - only , it would have fall outside the scope of offence where a member of the public , include a security guard , can make a citizen ' s arrest , be it not for an express provision in section 176 that make it clear that shoplift good under the value of £ 200 do still trigger the right to make a citizen ' s arrest under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act . back in 2014 — I be not a Member of Parliament then , but my hon . friend be — Parliament legislate expressly to allow that power of citizen ' s arrest to apply specifically to shoplift when the good be worth less than £ 200 . of course we need to be conscious of the safety of security guard , but I would urge they to intervene when they see someone shoplift . if they do not , that simply allow shoplift to go unchecked , and people will be almost encourage to shoplift if they think it will go unpunished . I have see plenty of video footage from the United States in which store security guard do not intervene — perhaps because people in the United States often have gun , which , thankfully , be not normally the case here — and the problem escalate out of control . I agree with my hon . friend that security guard should intervene appropriately , unless they really believe that their safety will be at risk , because that act as a deterrent . as I have say , they have the legal power to do so . there be also some very good technical solution that retailer can adopt to be proactive . one company that work in a number of retail store , include the Co - op in part of the south of England — it be a private sector company , so I will not name it — use a live facial recognition system that hook into the CCTV camera . it be connect to a database contain image of know prolific shoplifter . when one of they walk into the store , an alert be trigger so the staff know that a prolific shoplifter have just walk in . the company recommend that a staff member should approach the shoplifter and do nothing more than say , politely , " excuse I , sir , can I help ? " the mere act of do that often act as a deterrent , and the shoplifter simply leave , know that he or she be be observe . the company have show I datum reveal that the number of assault against retail store deploy the system have drop by about 20 % , while in the store that have not deploy it the number rise . in the store where it have not be deploy , there have be a significant rise in the incidence of theft — part of the wide increase that we have discuss — whereas in those that have deploy it , there have be a very slight decline . the system be recently scrutinise by the Information Commissioner ' s Office for the usual data protection and privacy reason , and , follow lengthy consideration , the company be be allow to proceed . I think that system of that kind can be extremely helpful . I do not want to try the House ' s patience by go on for too much long . let I conclude by reiterate my agreement with the view of the hon . member for North Antrim that this be a serious form of crime that cause enormous financial loss , lead to many assault on hard - work staff member and , if it go unchecked , escalate to a point at which widespread disorder permeate society . for all those reason , I think that we need to do more , and I commit myself to do that through the meeting to which I have refer . I thank the hon . member again for draw the matter to the House ' s attention . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think a point of order be the only way in which I can say this . I want to thank the Minister , because his be one of the most helpful response I have ever receive during an Adjournment debate . I just want to put that on the record . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . it be rather removed from the actual Standing Orders , but there we be ; I be sure that the Minister appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s word . question put and agree to . House adjourn .