I be sorry , there be not enough time for I to give way . [ interruption . ] member should have speak for less time . rural community have be severely undermine by the previous Conservative Government . for a party that once claim to be the party of the countryside , their track record be one of abject and absolute neglect . voter in the countryside reject their failure and embrace labour ' s positive vision . that be evident from the huge increase in Labour mps represent rural constituency , and the collapse in rural support for the Conservatives . thank to the Conservative party , transport link in many rural area be now close to non - existent ; there be more pothole in England ' s road than crater on the moon ; school can not recruit enough teacher ; GP surgery be full ; family can not find an NHS dentist ; thousand of rural business have collapse ; and rural crime go unpunished . this be an abandonment of the countryside on a historic scale . yet instead of apologise for their failure , the Conservatives choose to deny the reason why rural voter turn against they in their million . they be at it again today . I take it from the comment the shadow Secretary of State be make just now that they be so out of touch that they do not understand that rural community want more affordable home , more dentist , more teacher , more gps , well public transport , energy security , more digital connectivity , well - pay job , well access to the countryside all around they , and their river clean up , after the Tories leave they swill with raw , stink toxic sewage . they be out of touch , out of idea and now , thank goodness , out of office . this week , Britain start a new chapter . rural community will be central to our mission to rebuild Britain and fix the issue that make a real difference to people ' s everyday life , as we grow the economy , mend the NHS , fix our school , tackle crime and address the cost of living crisis . over a decade of national renewal , this Labour Government will serve the british public , wherever they live . the Prime Minister have be clear that this Government ' s priority be to grow our economy . we will boost rural economy with our new deal for farmer ; seek a veterinary agreement with the EU to get food export move again after the Tories lock they out ; and stop farmer ever again be undercut by dodgy Tory trade deal that sell out Britain ' s environmental and welfare standard , as they sell out Britain ' s exporter and food producer . we will set up a new british infrastructure council to steer private investment , include for broadband roll - out , into rural area neglect by the Tories , and reduce our exposure to volatile global fossil fuel price , protect farmer ' energy bill against future price shock .