Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — Strength of the Union whether he have make a recent assessment of the strength of the Union . recent year have highlight the strength of our United Kingdom . the successful covid vaccine roll - out be just one example of the strength of our Union ; the ability to spend £ 94 billion during the cost of living challenge cause by the covid pandemic and the war in Ukraine be another . that support will continue , with two freeport and an investment zone be deliver in Wales . polling on Welsh independence have find that young people , age 16 to 34 , be far more likely than any other group to vote by a majority for independence for Wales to secure the change they feel their nation need . that mirror the view of young people in Scotland , who believe Scotland can and will prosper outside this break Union . why do the Secretary of State think that so many young people have so little faith in the Union ? contrary to what the hon . Lady posit , young people want and welcome the right to be able to live , study and work in all part of the United Kingdom , which be why the Conservative and Unionist party have consistently poll far high in every kind of election than party that seek independence for Wales . one benefit of the Union should be that all its citizen be entitle to broadly equivalent public service , no matter where they live . yet in north Wales , on the 75th anniversary of the foundation of the NHS , patient be unable to access specialist medical service in England with the same ease as english patient , despite the fact that those service may not be available in Wales . do my right hon . friend agree that that be an unreasonable and unfair state of affair ? will he urge the Welsh First Minister to rectify that as quickly as possible ? it be deeply disappointing that on the 75th anniversary of the National Health Service , the Welsh Labour Government , which be responsible for healthcare in Wales , be unable to provide the same level of service as that receive by patient who live under a Conservative - run Government run the NHS in England . it be deeply unfair that patient in Wales be wait long for treatment and wait long in accident and emergency , and that those who draw attention to allegation of misspend of more than £ 100 million in the Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board have be sack from their job . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Lefarydd . one in five people in Wales be face hunger . on the nhs ' s 75th birthday , we must break the vicious cycle where poverty fuel hunger and , consequently , poor health . as the Secretary of State be a staunch believer in the power of the Union , I would like to pose he a challenge : would he be willing to stake his support for the Union on its ability to eradicate food poverty in Wales by the end of the Tories ' time in office ? I assure the right hon . Lady that my support for the Union be absolute . it be because we be in a powerful Union that we have be able to spend £ 94 billion on cost of live support , which have mean that pension , benefit and the minimum wage have all go up in line with inflation . if the right hon . Lady be concerned about food poverty , I hope she will talk to her friend in the Welsh Labour Government , which her colleague be prop up , about the ridiculous proposal to ban meal deal . I will take that as a no . perhaps I can give he another go to prove that Wales get add value from the Union . english water company can extract the equivalent of almost 480 olympic swimming pool of water from Wales every day . among those company be Thames Water , which pay over £ 200 million in dividend over the past five year . can he explain to household in Wales why the profit gain from extract our country ' s natural resource be benefit profiteer and not our community ? the right hon . Lady will be well aware that the way in which water company be run be rather more complicated than that . she will also be aware that there be a nationalise water company in Scotland and we have a not - for - profit water company in Wales , and yet in both Wales and Scotland average bill be high , and so be spill into the river — [ interruption . ] Mr Speaker , SNP Members can say what they want . they be preside over a situation where there be more sewage spill go into the water in Scotland than there be in England . International Tourism what discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on promote the UK as an international tourist destination . Wales be a great tourist destination and only recently I spend a long weekend in Llandudno . I believe my hon . friend be there . he have see for himself what a wonderful place it be . we have some of the good beach in the United Kingdom and some of the good mountain biking in the United Kingdom . it be a shame that as a result of the Welsh Labour Government ' s decision to impose a tourism tax on overnight visitor , few people see it . my right hon . friend be indeed right . I go to Conwy Castle with my two whippet and see the delight that Wales have to offer . I encourage everyone to go and see it . tourism account for about £ 127 billion of UK industry and almost 4 million job . what conversation be he have with the Welsh Labour Government to ensure that there be a UK - wide approach to both domestic and international tourism ? it be deeply disappointing not only that visitor will face a tourism tax , but that those offer accommodation will face extra regulation and that those come to Wales will be force to drive at around 20 mph on road that currently have a 30 mph limit . therefore , people will have to pay more to come to Wales and spend long get here as a result of the Welsh Labour Government ' s policy . I encourage all tourism operator to speak to their Welsh Labour Government Minister about this . on the subject of tourism , be the Secretary of State aware that Avanti have decide to cancel further service into Chester and north Wales to coincide with the peak tourism season ? improvement have be dangle in front of we one day and then pull away at the next opportunity . when will this hokey - cokey of train service stop ? I be aware of widespread concern about Avanti ' s performance . I know that my colleague in the Department for Transport have speak to the company about they , but it have also suggest that some of the old - fashioned working rule that have be work out with the union be hamper its ability to supply train as often as it want . all I can say to the hon . Lady be that my colleague in the Department for Transport be well aware of the concern about Avanti and have speak to the company about they . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . economic Growth what assessment he have make of the adequacy of economic growth in Wales . this Government have put in place step to deliver growth and to level up across the whole of the United Kingdom . the IMF now predict that cumulative UK growth over the 2022 - 24 period will be high than that in Germany and Japan , and the Bank of England make one of the big upward revision to its growth forecast for the UK . in Wales , the Government have invest in two freeport and will guarantee at least one investment zone to support economic growth . but the most recent data be not pretty reading as far as the Welsh economy be concern . the Welsh economy still have not return to pre - pandemic level , unlike in England , and unemployment in Wales be go up , unlike elsewhere in the United Kingdom . do my right hon . friend share my concern about what be go on inside the Welsh economy under the Labour Administration in Cardiff ? do he agree that what we need be a laser - like focus on support growth , support business and unleash all the opportunity and potential in Wales ? my right hon . friend be correct . it be deeply disappointing that growth in Wales be now below pre - pandemic level , whereas in England it be above pre - pandemic level . the Welsh Labour Government need to ask themselves some difficult question and perhaps stop concentrate on nanny state policy , such as the ban on meal deal , the 20 mph limit and the ban on new road and start think about what they can do to deliver job — I do not mean the £ 100 million scheme to create a whole load of extra Senedd Members . the Secretary of State will be aware of the announcement last week that have shock the Bridgend community about Zimmer Biomet and the suggestion of lose more than 550 job . I , along with my Senedd colleague , have meet the Economy Minister , Vaughan Gething . may I ask the Secretary of State to do all he can to make representation to the Business and Trade Secretary to encourage Zimmer Biomet to change its mind and keep the job in Bridgend and to grow from Bridgend to ensure that we keep these well - pay , highly skilled job into the future ? the hon . Gentleman make a very useful and important point . Bridgend be a wonderful place in which to invest and do business , and the new freeport will make it even well in the vicinity . I have be in touch with the Department for Work and Pensions about that , but I be very happy to talk to those in the Department for Business and Trade about what further measure can be take to encourage that company and other to take advantage of the wonderful work environment that be Bridgend . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on the 75th anniversary of our NHS , create by Welsh founder and Labour Minister Nye Bevan , may I thank , on behalf of Labour Members , all our NHS staff in Wales , past and present , for their dedication and public service ? last week , the Department for Business and Trade publish its report on foreign direct investment in Wales . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the Welsh Labour Government ' s Economy Minister , Vaughan Gething , on his success in deliver economic growth through attract an additional 3 , 000 job to Wales in the past year ? I think the hon . Lady will be aware that both the Minister for Economy in Wales and the Department for Business and Trade work closely with embassy across the world to ensure that investor know about the enormous opportunity that exist in Wales . I hope she will agree with I that that be testament to the fact that , while we may have political difference , on the issue of foreign direct investment , the UK Conservative Government and the Welsh Labour Government both enjoy work constructively together . I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State ' s response . I be sure we can both agree that we want strong economic growth across Wales and the rest of the UK . the last Labour Government give the go - ahead for new nuclear site in 2009 . nearly a decade on , none be up and run , and it be now two year since Hitachi pull out of the Wylfa project . labour be ready to deliver new nuclear to ensure energy resilience , security and low bill — [ interruption . ] what have the Government be do ? when be they go to stop talk and start act ? I be delighted that the hon . Lady have set out that the Labour party now support nuclear power . it be not something that be evident to we when Labour be in opposition a few year ago . labour have an opportunity over the 13 year it be in government to build nuclear power station , but it be good that it have belatedly decide that it will support new nuclear power in Wales . I can assure she that I be happy to work with the Welsh Labour Government and anyone else who be interested in make sure that great British Nuclear can take forward site such as Wylfa , which be an excellent site for new nuclear . New Nuclear Power Sites what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on new nuclear power site in Wales . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on new nuclear power site in Wales . to continue the topic from the previous question , there be regular discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential for new nuclear in Wales . this Government be launch Great British Nuclear to support our ambition to ramp up nuclear capacity in the UK to up to 24 GW by 2050 . GBN be actively work with the Government on access to potential site for new nuclear project . nuclear power have an important part to play in a balanced energy policy to provide energy security . do my hon . friend agree that Wylfa be an ideal site not only to continue generate nuclear power , but to expand beyond it , because the reality be that without improve and continue that site , nuclear power have to come to Wales ? I agree with my hon . friend . Wylfa be one of the good site in this country , if not in Europe , for nuclear power generation due to its optimal location and geology . I be confident that the site ' s potential to support our 24 GW target can be utilise . I know it be a site that GBN be very interested in . nuclear power be an excellent and much - need source of power , but when demand for energy decrease , that power be often waste . have the Minister look at any new Welsh nuclear power plant produce so - call pink hydrogen at time when electricity demand be low , so that we be not waste that energy ? we recognise the important role of both nuclear energy and hydrogen in reach our net zero goal . we be committed to a nuclear future for Wales and so far this year I have visit the Wylfa site and Bangor University ' s Nuclear Futures Institute . my hon . friend be right to mention the importance of store energy effectively . our 2021 hydrogen strategy lay out our intention to explore the use of electricity and heat from nuclear power station to produce pink hydrogen . will the Minister confirm that there be not an approve small modular reactor design in the UK yet , so talk of instal smr at Wylfa and elsewhere be just fantasy ? the hon . Gentleman mention smr ; I know great British Nuclear be look into the importance of those to our future net zero contribution and there will be site , I hope , across the United Kingdom . freeport what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the delivery of freeport in Wales . the Secretary of State be delighted recently to announce two successful freeport in Wales — the celtic freeport and Anglesey freeport — which will each be support by £ 26 million of Government funding . we have regular discussion with Cabinet colleague on the delivery of the two Welsh freeport , which we aim to bring into operation as soon as possible . I have be a keen supporter of the new Solent freeport join my Meon Valley constituency . I know the economic benefit that freeport can bring to business and worker . can my hon . friend assure I that he be do everything he can to ensure that the two freeport bid in Wales move ahead swiftly to benefit the community they serve ? I certainly can . the two new freeport will help to level up north - west and south - west Wales and bring new high - skilled job to successful area . they will become driver of growth and employment in their area , act as hub for regeneration , innovation and global trade . I understand my hon . friend ' s desire to see rapid progress . both the UK Government and the Welsh Government will work closely with the successful bidder to develop their outline business case so that we can understand the benefit , cost and the most beneficial intervention option . the celtic freeport bid be base on float offshore wind . the float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme be a vital programme to get the infrastructure in the port ready for the fabrication of substructure and turbine for float offshore wind . as the voice of Wales in the Cabinet , what step be the Secretary of State take with Cabinet colleague to secure FLOWMIS to maximise the benefit of the Celtic sea freeport ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about that . he may also be aware of yesterday ' s announcement of the leasing area in the Celtic sea for float offshore wind . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have regular meeting with stakeholder , as do I , about FLOWMIS and the necessary infrastructure to bring that into being . Transport Connectivity what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on improve transport connectivity between south Wales and south - west England . I have regular discussion with Cabinet colleague to discuss transport link between Wales and the rest of the United Kingdom . I be pleased to say that the UK Government have recently provide £ 2 . 7 million to develop solution to M4 congestion and deliver improvement to rail infrastructure . my right hon . friend will know that route such as the A303 from the south - west to London have be upgrade to ease congestion and boost the economy , but for those travel to Cardiff along the M4 , delay and congestion persist . what be the barrier to get the vital upgrade that that route need ? I be afraid to say that the barrier be the Welsh Labour Government , who have decide that they will , as a matter of policy , end all new road - building project in Wales , and , on top of that , bring in speed limit and road user charge . that be bad for job , bad for commuter and bad for the economy of Wales . the Government have woefully underinveste in Welsh rail . the Burns commission and the union connectivity review all point to what the Government should do : upgrade the south Wales main line and build new station , such as in Magor . when will the Government invest ? the hon . Lady make an important point . there be a project , which be go through the business case process at the moment , to improve the freight line on the south Wales line to enable passenger service to run on it . I believe that there will be announcement about that shortly , when the new rail network enhancement pipeline programme come out . consider that not a single mile of High Speed 2 track will reach Wales , and that current service between Wales and England be woefully unreliable and expensive , what step will the Secretary of State and the Government take to improve that and ensure that those live in Wales actually benefit from HS2 ? the hs2 project , which be , of course , propose by the last Labour Government and be support , as far as I be aware , by the Labour Opposition , will benefit passenger in north Wales . the Government be commit to passenger across the whole of Wales , which be why £ 390 million have be spend on a range of improvement . in addition to that , we will shortly have the south Wales metro system , which be part of the Cardiff capital region growth deal . Network Rail Funding whether he have have discussion with the Secretary of State for Transport on the adequacy of Network Rail funding in Wales . I have regular discussion with Department for Transport colleague on a wide range of transport matter . Wales receive proportionally great funding than the rest of Great Britain . in fact , figure from the 2021 - 22 financial year demonstrate that Government funding of the operational railway be 32 . 1p per kilometre travel in England , 57 . 3p in Scotland and 59 . 3p in Wales . when I ask the Department for Transport about the maintenance funding spend on the Wales route , it tell I that it get 4 % or 5 % of the spending and it equate to 4 % of the network , so it must be fair . the problem be that the figure be base on train mile rather than track length , and the train mile be always low in Wales because of a lack of investment in infrastructure . the track length be actually 11 % , not 4 % . will the Minister make representation to the DFT to increase rail spending proportionately to make it a fair settlement ? the hon . member be right to reference investment in rail in north Wales . Growth Track 360 have press for that hard — I have be involve with that , as he have — and the North Wales Transport Commission have recently outline similar project . he will be aware of the Union connectivity review development funding pot that have be available , and the entry in RNEP for the north Wales coast main line in relation to line speed . investment what step he be take to increase level of investment in Wales . foreign investment create 3 , 062 job over the last year . with the number of FDI project also on the rise , that show that more and more investor be look to Wales . this be testament to the £ 52 million that we be provide to support two new freeport , our commitment to deliver at least one investment zone in Wales , and the £ 1 billion we be invest in the next decade to boost the UK ' s global strength in semiconductor . do the Minister agree that supply chain business need " a modern , function road network to keep good move efficiently " — whether they be on the M4 , the A55 or elsewhere — and that the failure of the Welsh Government to commit to this be a " body blow " , accord to the Road Haulage Association director , Geraint davy ? I absolutely do ; my hon . friend make an excellent point . the Welsh Government ' s response to the road review be more of a roadblock , sadly . their opposition to the M4 relief road and other scheme continue to hold the Welsh economy back . the Welsh Government ' s impact assessment suggest that the impact of the 20 - mile - an - hour default speed limit could be as much as £ 4 . 5 billion . the Welsh Government , I be afraid , be advertise that Wales be close for business . the automotive sector contribute significantly to the economy in Wales , include Gestamp in my constituency , where investment in the late technology to make light , tough bodywork part contribute to the safety and energy efficiency of vehicle , include new electric vehicle . however , with the US and the EU offer big incentive to company to invest in new green technology , what talk have the Minister have with ministerial colleague about offer similar incentive to get the investment from automotive company to ensure that we keep a vibrant automotive sector ? I know that that question be very important to the hon . Member and her constituency . I point she in the direction of the growth deal , which have an important role to play , and regular ongoing discussion be hold between the Secretary of State , the Wales Office and other Government Departments . investment in Wales be also conditional on there be adequate healthcare . be my hon . friend aware that , in Tywyn on the west coast of Wales , a hospital that be build only six or seven year ago have now close ? People in that area have to travel many , many mile to get healthcare when it be need . I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . clearly , the provision of healthcare service in rural area be often very difficult , but he will be aware of the particular challenge in Wales , especially north Wales , over the availability of safe and accessible healthcare service . he be right to raise that point . as a gp , the Minister know the value of community engagement . will he ask the Home Secretary to increase investment in police in Wales to ensure that there be an effective response to tackle crime when bad thing happen ? the hon . member will be aware that there be more police officer in all the force in Wales than ever before . the Government and the Home Office have be invest in the uplift programme and ensure that there be a strong police presence across Wales . cost of Living Support what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of cost of live support for household in Wales . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of cost of live support for household in Wales . this government be support household across Wales with the cost of living . between October 2022 and the end of June 2023 , a typical household would have see half their energy bill pay for by the Government . accord to a study on hunger in Wales , around 753 , 000 welsh people face hunger in mid - 2022 — that be more than double the population of Cardiff — with Welsh Trussell Trust foodbank experience an 85 % increase in the number of emergency food parcel that they distribute compare with five year previously . what specific conversation have the Secretary of State have with Cabinet colleague and the retail sector on the high cost of food in supermarket ? obviously , all Cabinet colleague be absolutely committed to make sure that we put our resource towards the least well off . that be why pension , benefit and the minimum wage have all go up in line with inflation , and it be why there have be extra payment of £ 900 to people on benefit , £ 300 to pensioner , and £ 150 to household with disability . but at least the people of Wales be not in the same position as those of Scotland , where 1 . 4 million people be be hit with extra taxis . actually , family who need it most in Scotland be see the game - change £ 25 a week scottish child payment . when will the Secretary of State devolve power over social security to Senedd Cymru , so that it can also make decision like that to protect the people of Wales from the Tories ' cost of living crisis ? I can assure the hon . member that all member of the Cabinet be commit to resolve the cost of living problem that have come about as a result of the covid pandemic and the war in Ukraine . that be why our first priority be to halve inflation , as well as grow the economy , reduce debt , stop illegal immigration into this country and — we be responsible for this in England — reduce hospital waiting list . Speaker ' s Statement before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I wish to welcome a special guest who be observe our proceeding today : the President of the Cyprus House of Representatives . Madam President , you be most welcome . I also wish to make a short statement . I be sure the whole House will wish to join I in celebrate the fact that today be the 75th anniversary of the founding of the NHS . a couple of day before it start , the Health Minister , Aneurin Bevan , say in a message to the medical profession : " on 5th July we start together , the new National Health Service . it have not have an altogether trouble - free gestation ! there have be understandable anxiety , inevitable in so great and novel an undertaking . . . but the soon we start , the soon we can try together to see to these thing and to secure the improvement we all want . " it be fair to say that 75 year later , the NHS still face challenge , but it be right that , today , we celebrate an institution that treat over 1 million people a day . in particular , I be sure member across the House will want to join I in celebrate the staff of the NHS , past and present , across all our constituency . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] to they , I say on behalf of the House : thank you for your outstanding contribution to the health and wellbeing of we all . of course , the National Health Service Act 1946 be a reminder of the vital role of this House in create and debate legislation as part of a democratic process , so I say to previous mps : thank you for what you do . we will not forget . oral Answers to Questions Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 5 July . I have be ask to reply on behalf of my right hon . friend the Prime Minister , who be attend a service right now in Westminster Abbey to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the NHS . Mr Speaker , may I associate myself with your comment ? the NHS continue to be a treasured national institution , and I be sure that , during this sitting , colleague across the House will join you in celebrate its value and achievement and thank staff for their huge commitment to patient . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . Mr Speaker , can I also associate myself with the remark you make celebrate the 75th anniversary of the NHS ? on behalf of my constituent and all our constituent , I thank its staff for the work they do , day in , day out . last Friday , I meet a group of resident who have raise a petition to keep the last bank in Corringham town open . the viability of our town centre often depend on the presence of a small number of anchor business , such as a post office or a bank . can my right hon . friend therefore tell the House what action the Government can take to ensure that at least one of those organisation maintain a high street presence to support business and resident alike , particularly when they have receive significant Government support ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue . bank be a cornerstone of our high street . of course , it be ultimately a commercial decision for bank , but I think it be right that they take into account the view of local community . I be sure the bank in question will have hear his remark to the House and I trust that it will take appropriate action . we now come to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition , Angela Rayner . thank you , Mr Speaker , and can I associate myself with and thank you for your opening comment regard our NHS ? I thank all those staff who have work and continue to work in our NHS today . I be sure member across the whole House will join I in pay tribute to Lord Bob Kerslake , a decent and kind man who accomplish so much in both local and national Government during a lifetime of public service . our heartfelt condolence go to his family . I be glad to see the right hon . Gentleman here today . I think I be right in say that I have the pleasure again next week — two week on the trot . the Government really have give up . every day , 4 , 000 family ' mortgage deal expire , with 100 , 000 more since we last meet and million more next year . family be sick with worry about the cost of the Tory mortgage bombshell . do the Tories still claim to be the party of home ownership ? may I begin by associate myself with the right hon . Lady ' s remark about Lord Bob Kerslake ? I know he from my time in Downing Street . he be a stalwart public servant and he will be miss by many on both side of this House . it may come as a surprise to the right hon . Lady , but some leader trust their deputy to stand in for they . when it come to mortgage rate , I support the independence of the Bank of England in take the necessary measure to control inflation . just ask the International Monetary Fund what we have do to support they . it have say that we have take " decisive and responsible action " to bring down inflation and we will continue to do so . but what be labour ' s plan ? it be to borrow £ 28 billion a year , push up inflation ; to cut our domestic energy supply , push up inflation ; and to penalise worker save into their pension , push up inflation . there we have it from Labour — endless borrowing and high price . we have have 13 year of conservative failure . homeowner watch that pathetic answer will be cringe : they be not celebrate the Government ' s success ; they be count the cost of their failure . the only thing that be not soar in price at the moment be the right hon . Gentleman ' s gag , which be get cheap by the minute . it be not just homeowner who be suffer . security of renter have be rip away too , with high mortgage cost hand directly to they . give most renter live in home with a buy - to - let mortgage , can he tell we : be buy - to - let property include in the mortgage support package — yes or no ? actually , under this government , thank to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Levelling up , we have introduce legislation for the first time to support renter and to give they great security of tenure . of course , the Chancellor will take all necessary measure to stand behind mortgage holder and take necessary measure for renter . we have a choice in this country , and the choice that we have make be to invest in our economy , give we the fast grow economy in the G7 for the past two year , create job , with record low unemployment , and increase people ' s wage by provide the national living wage — £ 1 , 600 — into everyone ' s pocket . that be how this government be support people . I know that the Deputy Prime Minister be not very good on fact , but the Tory party do crash the economy . he will know that , accord to his own Government ' s data , over 2 million buy - to - let property be miss out on support . no - fault eviction be up by 116 % this year . so will he tell we if the Prime Minister have the spine now to stand up to the vested interest in his own party and finally deliver its promise to ban no - fault eviction ? I do not think the Prime Minister be go to take any lecture on weakness from the Labour party . there be a lot of talk about reshuffle in the air from the Labour party . the last time the leader of the Labour party try to sack the right hon . Lady , she walk out with a promotion . we will continue to stand behind renter and to support they , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities will take all necessary step . that answer be pathetic for all those people who be face homelessness on the right hon . Gentleman ' s watch . we will ban no - fault eviction — unlike the conservative party . Jessica and her four child from Plymouth be evict from their home in April . they be temporarily live with Jessica ' s mother in a cramp house where the two eld child be sleep on blow - up bed in the front room , surround by their belonging — hardly the decent , secure life that the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government promise . do family like Jessica ' s not deserve well ? I will tell the right hon . Lady what we be do for family like Jessica ' s : we be increase the national living wage . it be the conservative party that introduce the national living wage , not the Labour party . it be this party that have double — double — the personal allowance , cut taxis for those people , and it be this party that have lift a million people out of unemployment . I be immensely proud of the record of this Government . that be why people will not trust the Labour party not to crash the economy again . I ask a question about no - fault eviction ; I be very clear on what the Labour party would do , but I can not see we get through a single one of these encounter without the Deputy Prime Minister blame the Opposition for his Government ' s own record . when ask yesterday about the record low number of council house be build , the Housing Minister say she do not recognise that statistic . when ask about support for people in temporary accommodation , she say it be not her brief — the brief of the Housing Minister . if council housing be not her responsibility , whose be it ? the Labour party may have fail to notice that it be actually under this government that more council house have be build than when they be in office ; it be under this party that we have record level of housing be build . we stand very proudly on the record of this Government . but let we look at what we have do more broadly : inflation and waiting list come down , growth forecast up , albanian crossing down . while we be deliver on our priority , what have we see from the Labour party ? it have U - turn five time in the last month already . the record be clear : the only thing we can rely on the party opposite to deliver be break promise . talk about broken promise , house building be set to collapse to its low level since the war , rent and mortgage be soar , home ownership be plummet and over a million people be trap wait for a council house . there be one simple solution to this problem , and everyone know it , so when will the right hon . Gentleman finally stand up for the national interest instead of the Tory party ' s interest and build more house ? the right hon . Lady may not have listen to the answer I give and just move straight on to the next pre - scripted question , but we have build more house under this government than the Labour party . I be afraid it be the same old thing from she : she stack up the endless job title , she take the union cash and she constantly talk Britain down . that be why we will do everything we can to keep Labour out of people ' s pocket , out of their life and out of Government . I might respectfully say to the deputy leader of the Labour party , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , that if she want to know what we be do on rental reform , she can look at the Renters ( Reform ) Bill that this Government be introduce . order . be that your question ? I think you ought to ask your question . my question be about the Slapton line in my constituency . can it be right that Natural England be hold back major infrastructure development in south Devon and not allow we to keep key infrastructure be develop ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to speak up for the Slapton line . it be one of the most beautiful road in the country . I understand that the Slapton Line Partnership , which include Natural England and the Environment Agency , be work closely with the local community on the plan . we now come to the deputy leader of the Scottish National party . I begin by thank all the staff in our health service across these isle . as we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the health service in the UK , I want to reflect on two quote from two people . the first be : " it ' s about use the private sector more … something that we , actually , should be very comfortable with . " the second be : " a number of people do go as NHS patient to the private sector … and we could do more of it " . can I ask the Deputy Prime Minister : which quote be from the pm , and which be from the Leader of the opposition ? may I begin by say genuinely how sorry I be to hear that the hon . Lady will be stand down at the next election ? she and I join the House at the same time , and I know she have contribute much to her party and to this place . may I also say that I be sure she will wish to join I in celebrate his Majesty King Charles receive the scottish regalia , pretty much as we speak ? indicate dissent . there be always time for a Damascene conversion . when it come to the NHS , I will take no lecture from either the SNP or Labour . it have be there for I . I be bear in an NHS hospital , and my child be bear in an NHS hospital . it have be there for I and my family , and this Government have put record funding into it . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his kind word . we do join this place at the same time ; I be pretty sure we will be leave at the same time , too . [ laughter . ] the no . 1 problem that face the health service across these isle be workforce , and research show that Brexit have worsen the UK ' s shortage of doctor . european nurse register to work in the UK fall by 90 % after the Brexit referendum . what more will it take for both he and the Labour party to admit the damage that Brexit be cause our health service ? it all start off so nicely . I do not know whether the hon . Lady have be listen to what the Government have announce this week , but we announce an additional £ 2 . 4 billion for our groundbreake NHS workforce plan . it be the first time in the NHS ' s history that that have happen . if we look at the record since this party come to power , we have almost 40 , 000 more doctor and more than 50 , 000 more nurse . once again , the conservative party be deliver for the NHS . tonight , at West Lindsey District Council ' s planning meeting , the RAF will apply for list building consent to move the grave of Wing Commander Guy Gibson ' s dog . apparently , the Home Office be content for 2 , 000 migrant to be coope up next to 1 , 000 of my constituent live near or on the base , but the RAF think it intolerable that it should leave the grave of a dog that have lie in peace for 80 year . more importantly , will the Home Office start listen to we ? if it insist on this proposal on illegal migrant , will it put they on a discrete part of the base and let we get on with £ 300 million of level up with a hundred building — many of they list — a 2 mile - long runway and a spaceport , and let the dog lie in peace ? my right hon . friend know that we have to take action to address the unacceptable cost of housing migrant in hotel . I thank he for the constructive approach he have take to RAF Scampton play a role in respect of that . of course , Home Office Ministers will have hear his broad representation , and I be sure they will respond to he . may I , on behalf of my colleague , extend our deep appreciation to all those past and present who continue to be dedicate to our NHS , include our staff in the health and social care system in Northern Ireland ? in Northern Ireland , GPs , nurse , doctor and carer be adversely constrain by a lack of sufficient funding for our health service . the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council have highlight that our allocation fall beneath need , which compound the difficulty year on year . will the Deputy Prime Minister assure I of the Government ' s willingness to engage on this issue and ensure that public service get what they need to continue deliver for the people of Northern Ireland ? I be happy to give the right hon . Gentleman that assurance . as he know , the Department of Health in Northern Ireland have be allocate £ 7 . 3 billion — an increase of £ 20 million above 2022 - 23 — but of course the absence of a Northern Ireland Executive be exacerbate the severe challenge that the healthcare service in Northern Ireland be already face . a fully function devolve Government be the right way to deliver the reform need for the Northern Ireland health service . of the 16 , 700 case of melanoma diagnose in the UK every year , sadly over 2 , 000 will prove fatal . regularly apply sunscreen be our most effective weapon against this deadly disease , yet the Treasury remain stubbornly opposed to exempt these lifesave product from vat . with a further heatwave expect later this month , will my right hon . friend assure I , as a melanoma survivor , that he will do everything in his power to remove vat from high - factor sunscreen to save life and support the NHS as it celebrate its 75th anniversary ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the danger of melanoma . as a fair - head person with a fair - headed family , I be acutely conscious of the need to wear sun cream . I will not trespass on Treasury decision in this setting , but I know that my right hon . friend the Chancellor will have hear her representation . after 13 year of Tory Government , the Government ' s record be pretty dismal . let we consider it : inflation spiral out of control ; interest rate set to hit 6 . 5 % by the end of the year ; energy price double those in the rest of Europe ; food shortage ; strike across the public sector and NHS ; and graduate leave university with mountain of debt and little to no prospect of home ownership . will the Deputy Prime Minister admit his Tory Government ' s failure and urge the Prime Minister to call a general election now ? rather than focus on play politic , we be actually deliver for the british people . I listen to the hon . Lady ' s litany . I be interested to note that her leader have be in power for 100 day , and what have the SNP ' s record be ? three fail First Ministers , two unfinished ferry and a fail deposit return scheme . I think we can all agree that the people of Scotland deserve well . conservative government have a proud record of support the UK ' s steel industry . I have — I do not know why Labour member be laugh , because steel production halve under Labour . I have stand up many time in the House to talk about the importance of steel not just to my home town of Scunthorpe but to our whole nation . do my right hon . friend agree that we will always need steel in this country and that , if we can not make it ourselves , we will have to ship it over from the other side of the world , with all the emission and environmental and ethical concern that that will inevitably bring ? will he reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to take further measure to ensure that we have sustainable , long - term steelmaking in this country ? I be very happy to reaffirm this Government ' s commitment to steel manufacturing . I pay tribute to my hon . friend , as I know what a champion she be for steel production in Scunthorpe . long may she continue to be . we have make meaningful offer of support to Tata and British Steel . the Secretary of State recently visit they to see at first hand the work under way . I be sure that the Deputy Prime Minister will be as pleased as I be that work be well under way to construct the Sutherland spaceport ; in fact , it be ahead of schedule . recently , the north coast space cluster have be develop , which involve enterprise agency and company . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that that can build massively on the skill build up over many year at Doonreay , and that the establishment of international link with company in the United States can only be good news for the far north of Scotland ? I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s remark . the development of that new spaceport be a key part of our ambition to grow the UK ' s space launch capability . in the first three year we be expect to reach £ 20 million of investment , create 40 job . we be work with the United States , particularly through the technology safeguard agreement , to allow UK company to exchange technology with it . could I associate myself with your comment about the NHS , Mr Speaker ? I pay tribute to all NHS worker both in Newcastle - under - Lyme and across the country . I welcome the new long - term workforce plan , particularly 40 % more place in dental school . access to dentistry have be an issue for a number of my constituent . would my right hon . friend consider the merit of open new dental school , not just new dental place ? Keele University be one of the good medical school in the country , and would make an excellent site for a new dental school . as ever , my hon . friend make a very strong case for his constituency . as a result of the NHS long - term workforce plan , we be currently assess capacity at exist dental school to see whether they can accommodate the expansion in training place . of course , we retain an open mind about whether we need further such education facility . it be a pleasure to join colleague from across the House this morning for the NHS 75th anniversary parkrun on this special day . however , my joy be short - live when I return to my office to find the usual array of email from desperate constituent who can not get a doctor or dentist appointment , access to child ' s mental health service or proper care for their love one . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that , as today ' s report from three highly respected think - tank suggest , after a decade of under - investment , our beloved health service face either manage decline under the Tories , or a Labour Government with a radical new health and wellbeing strategy to put it back on its foot ? Mr Speaker , it may not surprise you to hear that I do not agree with that characterisation . let I tell you about this Government ' s record on the NHS : record funding ; record doctor ; record nurse ; record scan ; and record operation . the only record from the Opposition party be in Wales , where they now have the bad A & E waiting time in the country . the only other record be the length of the answer . maybe we can speed up with Richard Drax . I associate myself with your comment about the NHS , Mr Speaker . my constituent in Weymouth and Portland and I be get a little tired of be tell that place a migrant barge in our port be in the national interest . it be neither in the national interest nor in our . the barge , design for 222 , will accommodate 506 illegal migrant , already test our overstretch resource . it be impose on we without any consultation . there be many concern both about the barge and about what the 506 young man will do , go around a seaside resort at the height of the summer , unmonitored and with little money . will my right hon . friend stop it , and ask my right hon . friend the Home Secretary to do likewise ? I be sure my hon . friend appreciate that we need to reduce the bill of housing asylum seeker in hotel and that we need to look at different measure to accommodate they . of course , I be very happy to engage with he , and I be sure the Home Secretary be too , to ensure we can find a satisfactory solution in his constituency that protect his constituent ' interest . last week , the coroner find that the cause of Luke Ashton ' s suicide in April 2021 be gamble disorder . immediately before his death , Luke , bombard with inducement , place over 1 , 200 bet . at no point do the operator intervene . from his previous brief , the Deputy Prime Minister will have extensive knowledge of the harm those inducement cause , so do he agree that the commitment to curb advertising and promotion in the gambling White Paper do not go far enough to reduce harm and prevent more tragedy like Luke Ashton ' s suicide ? the hon . Lady will know from our conversation when I be Digital Secretary that I share her concern about gambling inducement . indeed , I pay tribute to she for she campaigning on this issue . I think we have a very good set of proposal in the gambling White Paper . that sit alongside the 2019 " NHS Long Term Plan " which commit to 15 specialist unit across England by 2024 to support those with gambling addiction . I think we have good proposal in place . may I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that we have the Chief Minister of his Majesty ' s Government of Gibraltar in the Gallery , Fabian Picardo ? may I seek an assurance from the Deputy Prime Minister that , as the UK - EU negotiation on the border between Gibraltar and Spain continue , the sovereign , freely express opinion of the gibraltarian people to remain british will be protect , as well as their security and economic interest ? I be very happy to give my hon . friend , and indeed the First Minister of Gibraltar , exactly that assurance . this government will always stand up for the people of Gibraltar and their right to determine their own future . sarcoma be cancer that can affect any part of the body , inside or outside , include muscle , bone , tendon , blood vessel and fatty tissue . Sarcoma be rare . in the UK , around 15 people be diagnose every day and 5 , 300 a year , include in family in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney . Awareness be low and as this be Sarcoma Awareness Month , may I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to meet I and family affect so that we can discuss what more the Government can do to raise awareness and vital fund for research go forward ? I be very happy to give that commitment , I think probably well on behalf of Health Ministers . one of my colleague in Downing Street who be a Prime Minister ' s principal private secretary sadly die of that disease , so I have a great awareness of it and it be important that we continue to raise its profile . last week , as an alumnus of Durham University , I have the pleasure of go to the installation of Dr Fiona Hill as its new chancellor . Dr Hill start in Bishop Auckland and could not afford a school uniform to go to the high school where she have a scholarship . she finish up work in the White House and be an example of social mobility . that be what she will be champion as the new chancellor . will the Deputy Prime Minister encourage the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) to work with I and the all - party parliamentary group for left behind neighbourhood to do everything we can to support she ? I join my hon . friend in relay the Government ' s congratulation to she . I will ensure the Secretary of State hear the representation he make . university in Cardiff and across the UK be home to world - lead research and innovation , but thousand of job and huge amount of expertise be now at risk because of the Government ' s dither in the negotiation over Horizon . the report last week that Sir Paul Nurse , Nobel laureate and head of the Francis Crick Institute , describe the delay as " absurd " and " damage science and damage the country " . be the Government still commit to negotiate a deal ? if they be , why do they not get on with it ? since we agree the Windsor framework we have have very constructive discussion on Horizon , but the difference between my party and the hon . Gentleman ' s party be that we will not accept a deal at any price . we will wait until we get the good deal for the british people and british university . I be run a campaign call " a Year of Reasons to visit the Moorlands " . each week , for a year , I be focus on one of the many reason to visit the moorland . so far I have include Hetty ' s Tea Shop in Froghall , the Heaton House Farm wedding venue , some brilliant artist and Alton Towers , and this week be league club day . may I invite my right hon . friend and you , Mr Speaker , to visit my constituency to see one of the reason for yourself ? I should be delighted to do so . I think that Hetty ' s Tea Shop may be more my cup of tea than Alton Towers , but I be sure I can arrange a visit . we will both go on the big ride together . I think everyone in this House can recognise that my city of Dundee be a city to be proud of . it have world - lead university , pioneer business and a determined SNP city council lead the way , and there be a real ambition to deliver for the future . we want to continue our journey , and the potential delivery of a world - class site for the Eden Project in our city will help to cement its reputation , bring further investment and job , and boost our local economy . can the Deputy Prime Minister confirm that the UK Government will deliver on previous promise and finally commit to support capital funding for that project in my city ? I be a big supporter of the Eden Project , and I hope very much that we can have one in Dundee . of course the United Kingdom Government always stand ready to support people in Scotland , and to support people in Dundee . as the child of two NHS doctor , the sister of an NHS doctor and the wife of an NHS doctor , may I , too , say thank you to everyone who work in our NHS ? will my right hon . friend send particular congratulation to the student at the new medical school at Anglia Ruskin University in Chelmsford , who will graduate as doctor in a couple of week ? this be the first time we have ever train doctor in Essex , and it have be hugely successful . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss double the size of our medical school ? I be very happy to offer my sincere congratulation to those student , who thoroughly deserve their graduation ceremony . I know what a difficult course be require for someone to qualify as a doctor . Health Ministers would be happy to meet my right hon . friend to discuss exactly that proposal . one of my constituent , who be a first - year university student , tragically take his own life in May . he have sign a private sector tenancy for his next year ' s accommodation , with his parent as guarantor . the tenancy include a clause which state that the responsibility of the guarantor be unaffected by the death of a tenant , and the letting agency be disgracefully insist on enforce that abhorrent requirement . my constituent not only have to live with the devastating loss of their son , but face terrible financial hardship because of this cruelty . will the Deputy Prime Minister support my call for the inclusion of a clause in the long overdue Renters ( Reform ) Bill to outlaw that practice and protect bereaved family ? what the hon . Lady have describe sound totally abhorrent , and I shall be very happy to look into the detail and discuss what measure might be bring forward to address it . at a time of record employment , an unemployment rate nearly half that of the EU average and strong inward investment , can my right hon . friend explain why every single period of Labour government since the second world war have end in economic failure , with sterling weak and unemployment usually high ? my hon . friend be entirely right . I might add that Labour government also spend every last penny in the Treasury . I well remember the note say that there be no money leave when we enter government . we should never allow that to happen to the british people again . our absentee Prime Minister do not turn up for the Owen Paterson vote , he do not turn up for the Boris Johnson vote , he will not stand up to the mp who call the Privileges Committee a kangaroo court , and yesterday he embarrass himself by act like a stroppy schoolboy in front of the Liaison Committee . with NHS waiting list at a record high and the Tory mortgage penalty hit my constituent hard , he have bite off more than he can chew , have he not ? I be not sure that there be a question in that ; I might respectfully say that it be a rant . I will proudly defend this Government ' s record . we have grow the economy in the past two year fast than any other country in the G7 , with record low level of unemployment and few people in workless household , all of which would be put at risk if the Labour party ever enter power . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . it be a shame that the Deputy Prime Minister have leave , because this point of order refer to his appearance in the Chamber on 7 June , when he claim that my party ' s plan to invest £ 28 billion a year in green energy would add £ 1 , 000 a year " to everyone ' s mortgage " . he make that claim a day after the Daily Mail report that figure and say that it come from Treasury analysis . however , the Treasury have admit that the statistic do not come from official analysis . it be force to make that admission to the UK Statistics Authority after that organisation demand to know where the figure have come from . the UKSA tell LBC that despite investigation , it have be unable to find any official source for the figure . its spokesperson state : " we speak to HMT and they have inform we the figure quote be not base on any analysis produce by Treasury official . " the ministerial code , by which all Government Ministers must abide , state : " it be of paramount importance that Ministers give accurate and truthful information to Parliament , correct any inadvertent error at the early opportunity . " Mr Speaker , I would be grateful if you advise I how we can get the Deputy Prime Minister — who will be back next week — to correct the record . may I say that you have absolutely put that point on the record , and I think you have make sure that it have be correct for the record ? I have no responsibility for this ; the responsibility lie with a Minister to correct an error and to ensure that they do so , as you quite rightly say , at the early opportunity . I be sure that Ministers on the Treasury Bench have hear that , and I be sure that the Minister responsible will want to correct it asap . safety Cameras Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish revised guidance on the deployment , visibility and signing of speed and red - light camera for traffic enforcement ; to require that guidance to include amend site selection criterion for safety camera , include a low threshold for the number of collision in which a person be kill or seriously injure ; to require that guidance to provide for a process by which local community can express support for the installation of safety camera in area of concern ; and for connected purpose . a 2007 circular from the Department for Transport recognise speeding as one of the " most significant dimension of unlawful , disorderly and dangerous road vehicle use " . it provide key guidance on the use of speed and red light camera for traffic enforcement to improve the safety of road user and pedestrian . it encourage change in driver behaviour , pave the way for local authority partnership to support their community and outline criterion for site selection to help decision making regard any new camera . I want to get ahead of the keen journalist in the Gallery and confess that I currently have three point on my licence for speeding , but I emphasise that I be catch by a camera and modify my behaviour — prove that camera do , in fact , work . fifteen year on from the introduction of the guidance , speed motorist be arguably the no . 1 local issue highlight across Dewsbury , Mirfield , Kirkburton , Denby Dale and , I be tell , many of my colleague ' constituency . alongside the concern that my constituent regularly raise , that be something I have see myself , with the Dewsbury ring road in particular occasionally resemble an Indy 500 track . speeding become significantly more noticeable during the pandemic , when few people be drive , with some driver take advantage of the emptier road to drive at reckless speed . I pay tribute to West Yorkshire police for all the work it continue to do to keep our road safe , but it can not be everywhere at once , especially give the vast expanse of rural road . accord to the current guidance , the primary objective of camera deployment be to reduce death and injury on road , with a study conduct by the London School of Economics find that , from 1992 to 2016 , traffic enforcement camera reduce accident by between 17 % and 39 % , while reduce fatality by between 58 % and 68 % . since April 2009 , the criterion for fixed and mobile camera deployment have be base on the number of accident in which someone be kill or seriously injure , with a scoring system in which each KSI accident score five point and each slight injury accident score one point . sixty - five people die and more than 5 , 000 people be injure in collision on the road of West Yorkshire last year . the majority of these collision be entirely preventable , with excessive or inappropriate speed be one of the most common factor in fatal and serious injury collision . however , the guidance in West Yorkshire still require at least three people to be kill or seriously injure within a three - year period — at least three people need either to die or suffer a serious collision , with potentially life - change injury — to satisfy just one of the criterion to install a speed camera . this mean that at least three family need to have their life change forever before a preventive measure can be implement . between 2017 and 2021 , nearly 700 collision be report on road in my constituency . fifteen of those be on Liley Lane run through the middle of Lepton . accord to the current list of speed camera provide by West Yorkshire safety camera partnership , there be no fix camera cover that road . there be also 13 report collision on Huddersfield Road , run through Shelley and Skelmanthorpe . there be camera on nearby road , but apparently none cover the road itself . the local community continue to highlight concern to I regard those road . accord to the local safety camera partnership , " community concern be one factor which may result in the use of a camera provide there be evidence of a collision history and / or traffic survey reveal speed limit violation meet the require threshold . local authority will apply the criterion to determine whether the use of either fixed or mobile camera be justify . " prevention be well than cure , so what be be do to support that ? as it stand , the 2007 circular appear keen to involve local community concern by the effect of high - speed driving in their area . however , in the guidance and on the partnership and local authority website , there be no structured , signpost point of contact for community to reach out to , so complaint be consequently be make to local councillor , the police and local mps . the creation of standardised point of contact , for local resident across the UK to highlight where speed camera would be useful , would be a crucial step in ensure our constituent be hear and keep safe . rural community notice and be most affect by speed motorist , so it be vital that we create and implement an effective and straightforward channel they can use to encourage change . I have therefore work closely with community group and village association to understand and highlight the impact of dangerous driving in their area . alongside highlight the concern of Shepley village association at Prime Minister ' s question last year , I have support the campaign of resident in Briestfield in Dewsbury and Upper Hopton in Mirfield to tackle speeding in their area by reduce the speed limit . I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my team and the local councillor , who work hard to respond to these concern and can then support the development of a coherent approach for local resident to highlight the issue publicly . I have raise this issue in the House on multiple occasion . in September 2021 , I highlight the need to change the guidance , with the Department for Transport promise a redrafte form of the 2007 circular by the end of the year . I appreciate that much have change over the past two year , but it would be fantastic if we could complete the redraft and implement a 2023 circular . finally , I want to assure colleague that this Bill seek not to give local authority the green light — for want of a well phrase — to install as many camera as they can as part of a revenue - generate scheme , but to reassure our constituent that they will be listen to and support in make their community a safe place to live , walk , cycle and enjoy . speed traffic put everyone at risk , whether they live in a build - up town or a more rural village . we want our road to be safe for everyone , but too often we hear about accident or near miss where speed be a key factor . I be introduce this Bill to bring down the point threshold , with a requirement for few serious accident within the timeframe , and to establish a pathway for community to petition for camera , so that we can make sure that action be take soon and life be save . I hope member from across the House can agree that the continuous improvement of road safety be crucial to all our constituent , and I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Mark Eastwood , Jonathan Gullis , James Daly , Nick Fletcher , Kim Leadbeater , Shaun Bailey , Jane Hunt , Scott Benton , Ben Everitt , Jason McCartney and Katherine Fletcher present the Bill . Mark Eastwood accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 342 ) . estimate Day [ 5th Allotted Day ] Department for Energy Security and Net Zero Energy Infrastructure [ relevant document : Third Report of the Welsh Affairs Committee , nuclear energy in Wales , HC 240 ; Second Report of the Welsh Affairs Committee , float Offshore Wind in Wales , HC 1182 , and the Government response , HC 1405 ; First Report of the Welsh Affairs Committee , Grid Capacity in Wales , HC 218 incorporate HC 1092 , and the Government response , HC 1063 ; Second Report of the Welsh Affairs Committee of Session 2021 - 22 , renewable energy in Wales , HC 439 , and the Government response , HC 756 . ] motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 11 , 749 , 854 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 1383 of session 2022 – 23 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 3 , 525 , 935 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) the sum authorise for issue out of the Consolidated Fund be reduce by £ 3 , 200 , 982 , 000 . — ( Andrew Bowie . ) the debate will be open by the Chair of the Select Committee on Welsh Affairs . it be a privilege to open this afternoon ' s debate on energy infrastructure at the start of this estimate day . it be an important and timely topic for we to consider , and I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for select it . I be also grateful to the colleague from both side of the House , and from different part of the United Kingdom , who be here this afternoon to participate . energy be the lifeblood of the global economy . the need for heat , light , and power be as old as humankind . in the intensely complicated , fast - move and interconnect world we now live in , efficient infrastructure supply reliable and secure source of affordable energy be the critical mean by which we sustain our living standard and basic security . for previous generation of policymaker , think about the affordability and reliability of our energy system be perhaps challenge enough , but in an age now when we well understand the far - reach impact of hydrocarbon on the atmosphere and our planet , and when threat to global energy supply can cause sudden and devastating spike in price , the task of not just renew but transform our national energy infrastructure be monumentally important and difficult . it should be at the very forefront of debate in this place . the twin challenge of energy security and net zero have come together in a potent way in recent year , and I welcome the way in which this Government have move quickly to respond to the change landscape . the energy security strategy paper , publish in April 2022 , highlight the commitment to produce far more domestic energy . more recently , the Government ' s blueprint for the future of our energy mix , " power up Britain " , publish in April , clearly set out how we plan to diversify , decarbonise and domesticate energy production by invest in renewable and nuclear . over the last two year , the Welsh Affairs Committee have undertake several inquiry into different aspect of energy policy and infrastructure , as they relate to Wales . one might ask why the Welsh Affairs Committee be take such an interest in energy , but it be simply because of the immense importance of energy to Wales and the Welsh economy . Wales be not only a consumer of energy , but a primary producer and a gateway for energy import and export . furthermore , we recognise the potential economic opportunity that could accrue to Wales from future development in renewable energy and nuclear energy . have complete an initial wide - range inquiry into renewable energy in July 2021 , our Committee pursue three subject in great detail : grid capacity in Wales ; nuclear energy in Wales ; and float offshore wind . in do so , we be acutely conscious of the fact that none of that be particularly niche or specific to Wales . indeed , much of the evidence we hear on all of those subject have direct read - across to other region and nation of the United Kingdom . in the time I have available , I would like to touch briefly on the key output of the three inquiry and highlight some ongoing challenge . I commend the right hon . gentleman for bring this debate forward . as Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , he be talk about Wales , but he also mention that all of the United Kingdom should benefit in this area . will that be from the three option that he put forward or will it be from tidal energy , which we could do more on in Northern Ireland ? do he feel that when it come to bring forward a strategy for this House today , it be about what happen not only in Wales or England , but in Scotland and Northern Ireland ? it be about what happen collectively , because we should all benefit . therefore , a strategy have to come from this place , but it must be drive out to all the region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland collectively . as ever , the hon . Gentleman be correct : we be one United Kingdom . of course , on energy on the island of Ireland there be interconnection with the Republic , but with the change nature of our energy system , the economic opportunity for investment , job creation and industrial renewal be enormous for all part of the UK — for Northern Ireland , Wales , England and Scotland . I wish to touch briefly on the key output of the three inquiry I mention . first , on grid capacity , we be talk about the network of power line , pylon and interconnector that transport electricity generate to area of demand . that be a critical piece in the energy infrastructure puzzle , not just in Wales , but for all part of the UK . the issue should keep Ministers awake at night , because it be clear from our inquiry that the entire way in which grid enhancement and new connection be deliver be not fit for purpose , give the imperative of UK energy policy . I recognise the step that have be take by the Government and the National Grid Electricity System Operator . with the appointment of Nick Winser as the UK ' s first electricity network commissioner , the Government be take step to address the challenge . however , if we think about the increase in the speed of delivery and consenting that be require if we be to see the renewal of our national grid in the way we need in the year ahead , we see that we need a much more significant step change in the pace of activity . rise — I give way to the Chairman of the Select Committee on Energy Security and Net Zero . the right hon . Gentleman make a good point there . one other issue to address be the plethora of zombie project that be clog up the system , which do not make it easy for anybody . identify they be not easy either — I do not pretend it be , but I want to bring that to his attention . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for bring that to the House ' s attention . there be currently about 200 GW of project on the book . many of those be zombie project , as he describe they , that will not come to fruition and so be clog up the system . the Government need somehow to get rid of those project in order to focus on area where we know there will be investment , and to encourage an anticipatory investment approach that will deliver the new infrastructure we need in a timely way . otherwise , we will end up develop a renewable technology and a system able to generate clean energy , but we will not have the grid to get it where it be need . secondly , on nuclear energy , our inquiry confirm that there be a broad consensus between the UK Government and the Welsh Government on the role that nuclear should play in achieve the UK ' s net zero target and ensure domestic energy security . the majority of our witness be in favour of new nuclear energy generation in Wales , and I be pleased to say that the Committee agree that nuclear energy have a strong role to play in a mix of low - carbon source . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) for the role she play on the Committee , as well as in her capacity as a constituency MP , in champion nuclear energy for Ynys M ô n . there have be no more energetic and active Member of Parliament for Ynys M ô n that I can remember — she have do a great job in champion her constituency . our report carry and reflect much of the positivity that my hon . friend bring to the subject . we hear strong evidence about the suitability of the Wylfa site on Ynys M ô n for a new gigawatt - scale reactor . in fact , we do not believe that the Government will meet their target for increase nuclear power without build that large - scale nuclear plant at Wylfa . we recognise the progress that the Government have make in establish Great British Nuclear and bring forward the regulated asset base model for secure investment in new nuclear . however , despite that positive progress , a new nuclear power station at Wylfa in north Wales be not in the bag . when I be in Government 10 year ago , we champion a new nuclear power station at Wylfa . minister be send for photo opportunity there and to meet potential investor , but it do not happen . I know that the community in Ynys M ô n , represent by my hon . friend , feel disappointment because it have have its hope raise and dash in the past . we do not want that to happen again , so I implore the Minister to hear the argument about Wylfa . I know he feel passionate about the subject and will discuss these issue with Government colleague . do any of the witness point out the eye - wateringly high cost of new nuclear , as well as how painfully slow the process will be , give the amount of time it will take for it to be up and run ? with the good will in the world , it be unlikely that there will be a new big nuclear power station until the early 2030 . give the Government ' s own target to decarbonise the electricity supply by 2035 , nuclear will be unable to play much of a part in help we to achieve that . the hon . Lady make a good point . investment in large - scale nuclear , or even small modular reactor , be a long - term feature of our energy system , as the Government ' s " power up Britain " report recognise . in fact , the Government ' s target for increase nuclear be for 2050 , not 2030 . on the cost of nuclear , yes , those point be make to the Committee . we make sure that we have an evidence session to hear from friend of the Earth and other who be oppose to nuclear per se . we hear their strong argument about their belief in an energy system entirely comprise of renewable and power storage technology in the future , but we also hear strong evidence that the technology for that do not yet exist . we have to stay in the real world , so nuclear , which have be try and test over the long term as a provider of cheap and reliable power , be an important part of our future energy mix , in conjunction with other energy source . I be go to make a similar point to that make by the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) . the right hon . Gentleman be talk about not rely on future technology , but smr be future technology — he have admit that they use technology that do not exist at the moment . how much do he estimate one large - scale new nuclear plant will cost , and how much would a fleet of smr cost , if they come to fruition ? I be go to disappoint the hon . Gentleman , because I do not have those specific figure in the pile of note I have bring with I . however , those figure be out there and the evidence be there . he be right that small modular reactor be a technology for the future and testing be still require , but that work be go on , and not just in the UK but in other country . it will be a technology for the future , so there be no point in we put our head in the sand and wilfully pretend otherwise . I believe it will be a technology for the future , but a lot will depend on future cost . particularly on estimate day , be we really " put our head in the sand " when that technology be simply the most expensive ? in consider Government expenditure , should we not be look for a technology that produce clean energy and be the least expensive , not the most expensive ? the evidence we consider take in the entire life cycle of a nuclear power station . look at the energy produce over 30 , 40 , 50 or more year show that they give we a secure , reliable base load of affordable energy production . People who oppose nuclear per se will not be persuade on cost or on the efficiency of the technology ; they will not be persuade at all . however , the bulk of the evidence that the Committee receive support the analysis make not only by the UK Government , but by the Welsh Labour Government in Cardiff , which share the view that nuclear power will be an important part of the mix . in debate about energy , people sometimes sound like football supporter , cheer for just one team . in truth , we need a blend basket of different energy source to help provide energy security through a systematic approach . I believe nuclear have a significant role to play in future energy production . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the long - term future for nuclear , and I agree , but surely the small modular reactor that we be currently look at be not revolutionary technology ; they be submarine engine . Rolls - Royce at Derby assure we that , with an order , it could have one up and run in five year . we take evidence from Rolls - Royce , and we hear about the £ 200 million it have already receive from the UK Government to help with development and that there be still work to be do . I know Ministers will be acutely aware of the cost and that there be other potential british provider of SMR technology . I confess that I be not expert enough on the precise detail of smr to debate they this afternoon , but our report , alongside work undertake by other parliamentary Committees , support a potential role for smr in the future . have say that we should not sound like football supporter , just chant for one energy source , let I come to the third report we produce , about float offshore wind . I feel passionate about this subject as it represent an exciting opportunity for the United Kingdom , particularly for those of we on the western side of the British Isles . float offshore wind technology enable the deep water of the Celtic sea to be open up for the first time . when turbine be far offshore , they can be large and can harness great wind power load , represent an exciting clean energy opportunity , and not just for Wales but for south - west England and other part of the UK . I be pleased that the UK Government have an ambitious target to deliver up to 5 GW of float offshore wind by 2030 , with an acceleration anticipate thereafter . the Crown Estate , which own the seabed , have a separate target for deploy float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , which we welcome . however , we need strong , more ambitious and long - range target , in order to send a strong and confident signal to developer and investor that we be in this for the long term ; that there be a long - term plan to open up those water to what will be a large - scale industrial opportunity . one reason I be passionate about the new energy technology of float offshore wind be because it have particular importance to my constituency in west Wales . the port of Milford Haven , in the heart of my constituency , have a rich energy heritage . it be build initially on whale oil , which be import to power new street lamp in the urbanisation of London and Birmingham in the 19th century . in the mid and late 20th century , we have oil refining and import of crude oil and petroleum product . twenty year ago , we have the investment in import liquefy natural gas , which have prove to be incredibly important in keep the light on in recent year . the next wave of energy investment that we can see will be in float offshore wind . that do not mean that we say goodbye to the many hydrocarbon company base in Milford Haven ; they be make great stride to decarbonise and change the way that they operate . it just mean that an additional wave of investment be come , which be very exciting . there be a rare opportunity , not just for west Wales but across the whole south Wales industrial corridor , base around float offshore wind and , potentially , hydrogen , for create many new job and for renew port community and other area of deprivation . that be why I be so pleased to work closely with the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) — he be not in his place today — on the bid for the celtic freeport , which we see as an important first step in unlock investment into these clean energy . the next step on which we be hope for a positive Government reply be the float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme . bid have already come in from south Wales . we need that additional bit of government funding , again , to strengthen the signal to developer and port owner that they can start spend the money to get we ready for this new , exciting industry of float offshore wind . before I close , let I flag up a few concern that I have over the potential risk for this new industry , which I would like the Government to hear . first , there be a concern about the leasing process . the Crown Estate provide an important market update to the industry yesterday . I be pleased that it recognise that , if we be to create a genuine new home - grow industry with float offshore wind here in the UK , with that local content and the local job , and not do what happen with fix - bottom offshore wind , where so much technology be import from overseas , then at the leasing round the Crown Estate need to build in some strong commitment on the part of the developer for invest in local community and local supply chain . I hope that the Government will be commit to ensure that the Crown Estate be give all power possible to hold the developer ’ foot to the fire to make sure that , when they do bid for these lease , they follow through on those investment commitment to the local community . my second concern relate to contract for difference , which have be incredibly important in stimulate investment in renewable . we have have four round of CfDs already . it be very disappointing for I that , as far as I be aware , there be no float offshore wind technology bid in the fifth round . there be a general consensus that the strike price and those CfDs be not enough to stimulate the investment , with the enormous increase in cost that developer have face in the past 12 month . I hope that the Minister will take that point away and discuss it with colleague in his Department and in the Treasury . do my right hon . friend agree that contract for difference have be vital for offshore wind , put constituent such as mine at the forefront of global offshore wind technology operation and maintenance ? I do agree , yes . I make the point early that , with fix - bottom offshore wind , we perhaps miss some opportunity for get investment in local supply chain , but that be change too . I recognise that , on the east coast of England , there be some exciting investment plan and job be create by large - scale developer . we want that and more for this new industry of float offshore wind that we hope to see in the Celtic sea . I know that float offshore wind will also be important in Scotland . I have two more concern to flag up , Madam Deputy Speaker , and then I promise to wrap up . one be about skill . it be difficult to find a skilled welder in south Wales at the moment , because so many of they be work on the enormous project at Hinkley Point . I read the other day that around one third of all the currently qualified welder in the country be due to retire by , I think , 2028 . there be an enormous need for great investment in apprenticeship and those technical skill that we will rely on if we be to see anything like the transformation in our energy infrastructure that we be talk about this afternoon . it will require steel fixer , welder , pipe fitter , brickie and carpenter and all those trade , which have be devalue by the political class — all of we here — in the past 20 or 30 year , and we need to see that turn around and job be properly reward . the final point be about plan consent . if we be to see the scale of investment that be require — whether in grid capacity , the deployment of turbine , offshore or onshore , or any other aspect of this renewal of energy infrastructure — we will need to see quick , timely approval and for those approval to be do properly by planning authority . I do not see many planning authority with the skill and resource require to be able to handle the volume and the technical detail of the kind of application that will be forthcoming . there be a real need for the Government , and for we in Wales — it be the primary responsibility of the Welsh Government — to think about how we resource planning authority for the future . in conclusion , I thank the Backbench Business Committee for the opportunity to bring forward this debate . it be an exciting and challenging time for energy infrastructure across the UK . we see many reason to be optimistic , while also recognise the scale of the challenge ahead . however , if we be to succeed in this , it will not be by march on to the street and stop traffic , or by retreat off grid and live in some rewilde seclusion ; we will do it through good science and good engineering , and with good policy and ambitious leadership from Government , which I hope be where the Minister come in . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee — [ interruption . ] that be an unnerving cheer from the Minister on the Front Bench . luckily , I know he personally . I be honour to follow the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . he have raise a whole lot of issue with which many member will agree . of course , there will be disagreement , but that be the nature of energy , which be so vast , and where the task ahead of we be so huge . there be challenge ahead . the right hon . Gentleman touch on skill and the volume of people that we will need . the point he make about the number of welder reach the age of retirement be critical . we have ambition to do thing not just in Wales , Scotland or the UK , but globally , and they be happen simultaneously as the world react to the commitment that be make at COP in Paris . there be a volume of people that be need and skill that be require . over and above the training of people , which have be mention , the Home Office have an important part to play as well , because we will inevitably need skill come from other country . we do not want the Home Office , which have block such thing in the past and be very damaging to the UK economy on several front , do its bad . it must realise that it , too , have a huge part to play in what will be the challenge over the next number of year . recently , I meet representative from the National Grid , who tell I that by 2030 they hope to do five time the amount of work that have be do in the past 30 year . that be quite a volume of work and quite a demand through the energy system , put a lot of pressure on many people — at local level , planning level , Government level and Home Office level . it involve train people , encourage people in school to come forward , and , in a number of place , retrain people as well . do the hon . Gentleman agree that there be also an important role for further education and university technical college ? member from across the House meet young people and staff from UTCs early today and it be inspiring to hear what these young people be say about their ambition for the future . do he agree that the technical education sector have a lot to offer ? the hon . Gentleman be correct : the technical education sector have a lot to offer and Government must ensure that the funding be available for that training . we know that people be need . if they show willing to come forward to be train , they should have every support from Government to achieve that . touch on the supply chain , I think since the bronze age about 700 million tonne of copper have be mine , and in the next 30 year , some people say , the same amount will have to be mine as have be mine in the last 5 , 000 year . that pose quite a challenge for the Earth ' s resource and the ability to do that . it be not just mining ; I be tell that across the world , cable manufacturing be sign up until 2030 and the cable manufacturer be work full tilt to get those order under way and to meet demand . we have a huge problem in planning , and sometimes for justified reason , but planning can take a lot long than the construction of project — sometimes twice the length of the construction . that be cause huge difficulty . build the network be not really the big part of the story ; plan the network become a big part . where energy infrastructure be build or where energy be generate , there will be a cost to some people . can that be compensate with community benefit , job creation and other innovative idea in community ? I know in my own constituency , Tolsta Community Development provide free driving lesson for young people . it be quite an innovative idea , but all the young people in North Tolsta on Lewis get the opportunity for free driving lesson , and there be money at Christmas and what - have - you . there be a number of innovative thing that can make infrastructure more palatable to certain community who have to carry the burden — because that burden will be disproportionate in some place . Ofgem be a huge area of difficulty . I recall many year of try to get Ofgem to consent to a 600 MW link to the outer hebride while Ofgem be dig its heel in for 450 MW . that go on and on , and then one morning we wake up and Ofgem be talk about 1 . 8 GW , and we have to go back to the drawing board again and make the case to Ofgem for the whole thing at 1 . 8 GW rather than 600 MW . it have be say to I , in my new role chair the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , that perhaps Ofgem need a statutory duty for net zero . that might free up Ofgem ' s hand to do a number of thing , because it often feel quite constrain in its remit from Government . People go to Government and try to get something change and they say , " well , it ' s an Ofgem issue . " People can end up bounce between the two — I be see nod from certain people in certain corner , although I will not point the finger too directly . Ofgem really need to be look at because , while the government often talk about market force , the big force in the market be most often the Government . they have a huge role to play , especially in energy and in guide Ofgem and change Ofgem ' s remit to bring all those thing into play . I speak to the Energy Networks Association yesterday , which tell I that time be not on our side for much of this work . we can see the evidence in recent month that the climate be oscillate unusually — we know it be . if we be go to get thing do , we need to get rid of the grit that be often in the ointment . another area that I come across recently when speak to the chief executive of Centrica and other people involve in the energy space be hydrogen . I be sure this will be debate , but people say that the UK have be second or third on other technology , let Denmark and other take the lead on wind , for example . there be an opportunity here to really move for hydrogen , and some estimate suggest there could be 1 . 5 million job in hydrogen . it be a big sector ; it need to be give time and space and a Government commitment . People within energy be tell I they be concerned that those commitment might be weaken . that be not something we want to see happen at all , especially give that the Government miss the boat on many technology . I will end on the role of smart meter and demand . since the Ukraine war and the energy pinch , we have see a change of behaviour in a number of country . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Dr Whitford ) for point out yesterday that Germany have decrease its gas demand by about 22 % through change in behaviour . the Government have another part to play in demand management , which can be as simple as public information campaign let people know what they can do to change , or what industry can do to change , and help ensure that we use energy less wastefully and more efficiently . we must also remember vulnerable consumer and people who need energy more . someone who be at home and disabled will be use energy more than other people . smart meter can have a huge role in help with demand management , but there be an issue for Government — I be sure the Minister will look at this far — on whether GDPR be an impediment to improve demand management and help people more widely . on this energy estimate day , we have to look forward and hope the Government be listen , work with people and take the good advice — rise — I will give way to the hon . Lady . I thank the hon . Gentleman for give way ; I be try to work out where his semicolon be go to come . I be very glad he raise the issue of demand reduction . do he agree that the Climate Change Committee ' s late progress report be pretty damning when it say that installation of energy efficiency measure be still well below what be need and , shockingly , fall even far last year ? do he also agree that when it come to reduce demand , the Government should be set out a local authority - lead , street - by - street home insulation programme that would get people ' s bill down ? that be what would guarantee energy security , rather than the kind of measure we be see from this Government , such as more oil licence . yes , one of the Climate Change Committee ' s main bullet point have be lack of urgency from the Government . as Lord Deben ' s Committee say : " pace should be prioritise over perfection . " I be sure there be not — there be not perfection either . the hon . Lady say from a sedentary position that there be not perfection either . this be the space of politic and debate , but there have be an awful lot of learning , with many august committee and people who have be expert in this area for a number of year say some fairly robust thing . I hope the Government will take that on board and react to it so that the next report be less robust and more positive . order . a little reminder to member that if they intervene on another member , it be courteous to stay until the end of their speech . sometimes people have to be remind of that . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I take this opportunity to thank the Department for its work throughout the year . during that time it have introduce our flagship energy bill support scheme , which give every household £ 400 off their energy bill at a time when the price of energy have increase massively . that be not the only cost of live measure that the Department spearhead ; far to that scheme , the Government also put in place the energy price guarantee to cap household energy bill at £ 3 , 000 . at a time of significant inflationary pressure within the economy , that flagship programme continue to help customer with their day - to - day expenditure . on the other hand , Labour and SNP proposal would leave the UK reliant on russian gas and hand british job over to russian worker , with 90 , 000 highly skilled worker lose their job almost overnight if the opposition get their way . this government , however , have invest in energy efficiency upgrade and low - carbon heating , include £ 152 . 7 million for the west midland alone . I also take this opportunity to mention standing charge . while it be hugely welcome that the energy price cap have be reduce , I be concerned to see that stand charge remain unchanged for now . consumer expert Martin Lewis have rightly point out that high standing charge will lead to an unfair distribution of saving now that the price cap have reduce . the effect will be that household who limit their energy usage will see a small percentage saving than those who use more energy . household will be limit their energy usage for a variety of reason . while low - usage household usually have a low income , many household be also cut their usage to reduce their household emission . it can not it be right that those who be do the responsible thing and limit their usage do not get to see a fair saving under a reduce price cap . Mr Lewis publish an article just yesterday call for a fair split between standing charge and unit rate , which would allow those household who be take step to cut their usage to keep more of their hard - earn money and enable we to offer a great financial incentive to those look to reduce their energy usage . however , it be not just household be sting by high standing charge . business in my constituency have be struggle with the level of those charge for a while , even in case when they have be use little or no energy for building not in use . during a visit to Robert Hopkins Environmental in West Bromwich last year , I be shocked to hear about the eye - water standing charge the company be pay on unit that be use very little energy , if any . it can not be right that household and business continue to be liable for those extravagantly high standing charge , give our need to reduce energy consumption in response to the threat of climate change . I hope that Ministers will investigate that to ensure that my constituent , and business , be give a fair deal . in 2022 , my right hon . friend , now the Prime Minister , announce that he be cut vat from 5 % to 0 % for the installation of energy efficient system such as solar panel , heat pump and insulation . that be great for business in my constituency , but we can do more to remove red tape . business tell I that apply for planning permission be complicated , long - wind and possibly completely pointless . there may be more we can do to streamline that to incentivise those method far . Andy Street have point out that we have to do more and that we in the west midland be lead the way on these issue . he have rightly point out that one in 10 west midland company be now spend more than 20 % of their turnover on energy cost — many such business be on high fix - rate deal sign last autumn . household have see a reduction in their bill and we must now look to regulator Ofgem to ensure that supplier be be fair with business customer . I welcome any action that the Government can take to ensure that that happen . the UK have continue our strong record of tackle climate change as a world leader in net zero policy . through our support of new renewable technology and nuclear power , we be well on the way to deliver on our commitment to decarbonise our power generation by 2035 . on top of that , we have lead the international community in accelerate the global effort to tackle climate change . the COP26 Glasgow summit show how , with strong british leadership and co - operation with our partner across the globe , we have a plan not only to limit the rise in global temperature but to help develop country , which be the least well equipped to deal with the consequence and be often the worst affected . furthermore , the Government co - ordinate an international agreement to phase out subsidy for oil , coal and gas , and produce a UK - wide plan to increase the supply of renewable source of energy production . in my constituency , Enfinium be build a new energy - from - waste facility . it will , when it open in 2025 , process nearly 400 , 000 tonne of waste to generate electricity and power more than 95 , 000 home and business every year . on top of that , my constituent will benefit from the 400 job create as a result of the £ 500 million investment in the site . enfinium be also plan to turn the site into a net zero hub to use new groundbreaking technology to make the west midland a lead region for net zero . I agree with Mayor Andy Street , who visit the site early this year and say it will " be at the heart of the region ' s goal to reach net zero by 2041 . " that be exactly the type of innovation that can , and will , revolutionise the way in which we generate power . it have the double benefit of feed electricity back into the grid and get rid of residual waste , and ensure that the by - product be use in industry such as construction , result in very little waste and the power generation that all our life depend on . project such as that and other in the wide west midland , include the Coventry and Solihull Waste Disposal Company plant , be extremely encouraging and present we with material opportunity for a reliable energy generation solution . another west midland example be Sherbourne Recycling ' s new state - of - the - art recycling plant for process low - grade plastic in the recycling stream . that highly automate plant make use of robot and artificial intelligence to deal with 47 . 5 tonne of recyclable per hour , with the ability to process 175 kiloton of recycling from domestic and commercial source every year . that be another wonderful illustration of the way in which collaboration with the private sector can lead to optimal business and environmental outcome . Andy Street have lead effort to meet the combine authority ' s ambition to be net zero by 2041 . as well as support for energy - from - waste facility , include the site that I have mention , there be plan to invest in hydrogen power and carbon capture across the region , which will transform the way we deal with climate change and produce our power . I be encourage by the Government ' s commitment to invest in the technology of the future . I look forward to see the positive result in low energy bill for my constituent and a clean , green environment for we all to enjoy . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) . I particularly enjoy her remark about standing charge , with which I wholeheartedly agree . I will focus on carbon capture and storage . if we accept that we can not all cheer for one individual football team , and that there be a need for many different energy producer on the pitch , we have to deal with carbon capture and storage to meet our net zero target and decarbonise in the way we need to . I realise that many of we would like to move more swiftly towards green energy production but , if we be honest and realistic , we must accept the need for a mix that include carbon capture and storage . I have severe concern about the pace and scale of investment into that industry , particularly in the Humber industrial cluster . for member who be not aware , the Humber industrial cluster be the big carbon emitter in the country because of all the energy - intensive industry that we have there . back in March , when the Government make their announcement about carbon capture and storage , not a single project in the Humber gain assent , despite that cluster be the big carbon emitter . the Government be say that there will be a new process — the enhanced track 1 process — but , when 80 % of the carbon storage facility be off the east coast and accessible from the Humber , it seem rather illogical not to approve a project in the Humber . that do not make sense for the international business that be there , and that be the point . these international business have investment in the US , Norway and Germany . their board be not look particularly at the UK as the place they want to be . they be make an international investment decision . the feedback that I be get from those different company be that they be now look to invest elsewhere . collectively , those company be willing to put about £ 15 billion of private investment into that technology in the Humber . they be say that the indecisiveness — and the shock and horror that not one of their project be approve — mean that their board be say , " hang on . why be we look to invest in the UK when we can go ahead in Germany or Norway , and the US be give we incentive to carry out work there ? " that be extremely worrying for the Humber because , to return to my early point , it be the big carbon - emit region in the UK . if we can not have a solution for the Humber , we can not have a solution anywhere else . the east coast cluster track 1 application , of which the Humber be a part , be perhaps not the good way to go . we have the track 1 extension , as well as track 2 , where we have very good bid . that will bring that investment . do the hon . Member agree that we must ensure that the right project get the go - ahead ? it might be worth talk to the company involve . they be tell I that the indecisiveness mean that they might not be look at the UK as a market to invest in any more . for member who be not intimately involve in what be go on in the Humber , there be two possible pipeline out to the North sea : one from Easington on the north bank , and one far along on the south bank . we be look at both for carbon storage . in my opinion , we need to approve both project because of the amount of carbon that the Humber emit , but as it stand , neither have be approve by the Government . the company have not yet be give a fix timetable on when the Government will see that through . at oral question early this week , the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero tell I that the viking project be the " favoured " option , but when I speak to those company , they say that they have not be tell , " this be go ahead , and we be go to fulfil it — go for it . " the hon . member be be generous in give way . I talk with those business weekly and that be not the information that I be get at all . the deadline be be discuss . perhaps she and I need to speak so that we can get the full picture , because I think I have a full picture than she might have at the moment . as it stand , the Government have not approve any of the carbon capture and storage project for the Humber . they approve one for Teesside back in March , but they have not approve any for the Humber . the information that they be give out be that they will do so " in due course " and that we will " hear shortly " , which be not the same as actually approve a project . France , Germany , Hungary and Norway be all move ahead . those international company be make decision now . those in the Humber face the real possibility of carbon capture and storage infrastructure not be in place in time , in which case they will have to cease operation . these company will then begin to move to country where carbon capture and storage be available . those look for a place to invest and meet their target will not choose the UK . once we miss this opportunity , they be go forever . for example , the company be already sign 20 - year contract with Norway . without that infrastructure in the Humber , we will not meet our net zero target . accord to the independent Climate Change Committee , the 2030 CCUS and hydrogen target be essential to meet that target . the UK have one third of Europe ' s geological storage and the infrastructure and expertise from gas and oil company . we have that huge advantage , but it be not enough . the main message that I want to put across to Government be that investor and company need certainty . they need to see unwavering commitment and action from Government . instead , the outside world see a slow and piecemeal bidding process that result in the UK ' s large industrial cluster be exclude from the first round . the decision that be make in March be already delay by nine month because of the political chaos in Government . these company be already put in million of pound - worth of investment — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) can shake her head all she like , but I recommend that she go to speak to these company . they be tell I that job be at risk in the Humber and that the decision be delay because of the political chaos in Government . those be the fact . the Government ' s indecision be result in £ 15 billion of private investment be put at risk along with the Government ' s ability to meet their net zero target . those be the fact , whether she like they or not . our international reputation be be permanently damage . when I talk to these company , they tell I that they no long trust the UK Government and the UK Government ' s ability to keep a promise and fulfil their commitment . that international reputation be essential if we want international investment from those company . my hon . friend be make a very powerful and informed speech . she will be aware of the INEOS project , with Denmark , to have a carbon capture and storage facility off the danish coast to take belgian emission . do she agree that we be get behind in the race to be able to provide and support that sort of project in the future ? absolutely . the UK be unique in wish to have a bidding process . in the USA , if a company say that it can reach the target need for carbon capture and storage , that project be approve . in the UK , we have a bidding process instead , which mean that company have to invest money in enter the process to begin with , without the knowledge or certainty that they will be approve , even if they can evidence the gain in carbon reduction . the least that the Humber need be clarity . when do the Minister expect to move forward with track 2 ? the track 2 decision on transport and storage need to be announce alongside decision on key capture site in the Humber , with confirmation — this be crucial — that the pipeline will run from the Endurance aquifer to the Humber , as be originally set out for the east coast cluster . any further delay would risk the viability of the project . the good news be that , if the Government give certainty to these industry — if they meet they and provide they with the security and certainty that they need to invest — 77 , 000 new job could be create in the Humber , and an industry worth £ 30 billion in taxable revenue could be there by 2050 . that will happen only if the Government provide certainty to investor and move quickly and decisively to get all the UK ' s carbon capture and storage capability on - stream ahead of our competitor . this be a one - off opportunity and the Government be dangerously close to blow it . before I begin , I would like to say llongyfarchiadau — congratulation — to my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) for put forward the application for a debate on energy and net zero and energy infrastructure . he be a proud champion for Wales in this place . I express my thank to the Department for pledge an extra £ 790 million to the budget for net zero . time be of the essence when it come to cut emission , and for I and my constituent on Ynys M ô n , this be a very welcome step in the right direction . that spending on energy infrastructure could not have come at a more crucial time . as we be all well aware , invest in the energy transition be the good shot we have at create a low - carbon , high - growth economy . it will enable every corner of the UK to remain at the forefront of global innovation and re - industrialisation . I think we can all agree that the energy transition will require significant investment from the private sector and , with the right policy , this will pay back our local community in spade . last year , net zero attract more than £ 50 billion of new investment in our low - carbon sector and it will be worth a whopping £ 1 trillion to british business by 2030 . People would be hard - pressed to think of anywhere that symbolise the opportunity and benefit that the energy transition can bring more than Wales . she embody it both in her landscape and her people . her coalfield form the backbone of british industry , mine for over 100 year by hard - work welshman like my grandad . limit Wales ' s contribution to british energy in the time since to coal alone would be to do she a disservice . Ynys M ô n house a wealth of project that bring investment and highly skilled , well - pay job to her resident . the Morlais wave project will harness the tremendous tidal potential off Anglesey ' s coast to produce enough clean , low - carbon electricity for five time its population . Holyhead hydrogen hub and Minesto be also make great stride . the BP Morgan and Mona offshore wind farm even far out to sea symbolise Britain ' s bud reputation as a global wind power player . Inland , Lightsource BP be scope out proposal for a solar farm and battery storage facility adapt from an old oil terminal . last but not least , the Wylfa nuclear power station generate clean , low - carbon , firm electricity for Britain ' s grid for more than 40 year . the UK have a long and proud record on nuclear power . the first commercial station in the world be open by the late Queen Elizabeth II in Sellafield in 1956 . we have one of the most respected safety regime in the world . it be the gold standard against which other country ' nuclear project be measure . we must not forfeit our record on nuclear power . the Government ' s stellar commitment to launch great British Nuclear , as well as the construction of new plant at Sizewell and Hinkley , be warmly welcome . great British Nuclear will unlock exciting opportunity for the UK to become a world leader in small modular reactor and open the door to new nuclear plant in incredible site such as Wylfa . we quite literally can not afford to let opportunity to deploy more of this power slip through our finger . this be our opportunity to produce clean electricity on british soil for british business and british people . new nuclear at Wylfa would enable Ynys M ô n to cement herself as Britain ' s energy island . once call the breadbasket of Wales for its fertile farmland , Anglesey again have the opportunity to supply home and business with vital fuel through her clean , home - grow electricity production . with all but one of our nuclear power station go offline at the end of this decade , new nuclear at Wylfa would represent an opportunity for we to preserve our nuclear prowess and ensure secure supply of electricity for decade to come . as if all that be not enough , the most recent jewel in the crown of Anglesey ' s low - carbon credential be her newly announce freeport , which be expect to bring over 13 , 000 job and over £ 1 billion of investment to the island . I have campaign hard for that in my time as the island ' s MP , raise it more than 37 time here in the Chamber , and I be grateful to the UK Government for their vote of confidence in Ynys M ô n . but all of this — the wind , wave , solar , tidal , nuclear , hydrogen , free trade , job and investment — will amount to little if the grid infrastructure to support it be not there . new low - carbon energy will be choke if there be nowhere for it to go . we need to build more infrastructure in the next seven year than we have in the past 32 . if Anglesey be to embrace its energy island reputation , its wealth of potential project can not be bogge down in an endless planning process . the planning process for offshore wind farm often require developer to submit more than 1 , 000 document , include an environmental impact assessment make up of 10 , 000 - plus page . Sizewell C take more than 44 , 000 page of plan document to get approval . lay out on the ground , that would be eight mile of paperwork . community should be properly engage and consult on project , but push endless amount of paper be unlikely to deliver the energy transition that the public want and desperately need . connection to the national grid also need to become much fast if we be to be in with a chance of compete in the global race for net zero investment . project be be give 10 - year wait time for a grid connection , hold back private sector investment in the energy transition . connection date well into the 2030 be now common due to the length of the waiting list . if that go on , the UK will not hit its target and we will not decarbonise fast enough to bring down bill and secure our energy supply . however , the Government have make some really welcome progress on this issue . give Ofgem a net zero duty will encourage the system to upgrade and modernise , so that it can handle all the fantastic new low - carbon electricity we be go to generate . capital expense for renewable project will cut the cost for developer to build the vital project we will need to make electricity cheap and more secure . we should make that tax cut permanent . on top of that , I be very pleased about the launch of great british Nuclear next Thursday — fittingly , at the Science Museum . it be a very welcome step towards show the world that we be serious about recognise and reward the contribution that nuclear power can make to decarbonise our energy system and level up our community . the good way to kick that programme off would , of course , be by grant Ynys M ô n the opportunity to really knock our sock off by commission new nuclear at Wylfa , the good site in the UK . I welcome the opportunity to scrutinise the Department ' s spending . this Government have make bold commitment to the green industrial revolution , from which my constituent be directly reap benefit , but barrier to delivery remain . I implore the Government to recognise the sense of urgency and consider those barrier in the come year . Diolch yn fawr . it have be an interesting debate so far , but there be no doubt that the pace at which we be get to net zero be too slow . the recent report from the Climate Change Committee be very clear : it describe the Government ' s effort to scale up climate action as " worryingly slow " . the committee have lose confidence that the UK will reach its target for cut carbon emission . that be an unacceptable dereliction of duty , and I worry that it be become increasingly normal to accept that we will not meet our climate change target of limit the rise in temperature to 1 . 5 ° C by 2050 . let we remind ourselves why that target be very important : if we do not stay within the 1 . 5 ° c limit , the permafrost will melt , release huge amount of methane into the atmosphere . that would be irreversible — no amount of human effort would be able to stop it . will the hon . Lady give way on that point ? let we not make the 2050 target something that we can not reach . we must reach it — it be an absolute necessity that we do . I will not give way to people who will not follow the science , and who deny that evidence . to reduce territorial emission by 68 % from 1990 level , the UK must now quadruple its rate of emission reduction outside the power sector . the CCC use a variety of indicator to measure the UK ' s progress in reduce emission , and we be only on track on nine out of 50 . today ' s debate focus on energy infrastructure ; even power , which have be the only success story so far when it come to net zero , be now fall behind . we will miss the target of decarbonise the power system by 2035 , which the Government should be very worried about . the CCC say that renewable electricity capacity be not increase at the require rate . one of the big barrier be grid capacity : our unprepared infrastructure have leave ready - to - make renewable project wait up to 15 year to connect to the grid . it be high time that the Government put their mind to those huge delay and create a regulatory system fit for the net zero challenge . at time like this , we need more government , not less . the prevail laissez - faire attitude of hope for the market to settle all our net zero challenge be no long fit for purpose . the CCC have say that we could have mitigate the energy crisis if the Government have rapidly deploy onshore wind and solar power — here lie the hypocrisy . on the one hand , the Government say that they do not want to interfere with the market ; on the other , they actively limit the onshore wind and solar industry . the de facto ban on onshore wind and a framework that do not create enough incentive for the solar industry have mean that people in the UK have pay far high price for the energy crisis than would otherwise have be necessary . offshore and onshore wind deployment have be slow , and solar be particularly off track . we need to deploy 4 . 3 GW of solar per year to meet our target of 70 GW by 2035 , but last year only 0 . 7 GW of solar be deploy . on estimate day , we discuss Government spending , and the UK be clearly not spend enough on net zero . as Lord Goldsmith detail in his resignation letter , the problem be that the Prime Minister be " simply uninterested " . [ interruption . ] the Minister say " rubbish " . he will have the opportunity to respond in his speech , but I be very much talk about the fact . the hon . Member be make a powerful case , and I thank she for it . the Secretary of State tell I yesterday that end new North sea oil and gas licence be , in his word , " bonker policy " . do the hon . Member agree that what be really bonker be a Government subsidise oil and gas company to drill more of the very thing that be destroy our planet , and hand billion in subsidy to the fossil fuel company in the middle of a cost of living crisis ? I could not agree more . this be about create level playing field — at least for the renewable sector versus the oil and gas industry — but we do not even have that . the US Inflation Reduction Act and the EU ' s Net - Zero Industry Act will be transformative , and will incentivise huge investment in new renewable technology and crucial net zero infrastructure . will the hon . Lady give way , please ? I have already say that I will not give way , and I stick to what I have say . the US plan will see nearly $ 400 billion provide in subsidy and tax credit to boost green infrastructure and manufacturing . the EU have announce a green industrial plan worth $ 270 billion . even Canada , an economy small than our , announce a package in March offer nearly £ 50 billion - worth of tax credit for clean technology . what be the UK Government ' s response ? no meaningful new funding be announce on Energy Security Day , and the Chancellor have refuse to match the ambition set out in the Inflation Reduction Act . in March , the Government cut £ 80 million for vital renewable project from the contract for difference budget . the UK ' s budget for net zero do not come close to match the ambition of our partner : we need to spend now to save money in the future . the country ' s finance be already strain under the weight of Conservative Government incompetence , and the London School of Economics predict that UK bank and insurer will end up shoulder nearly £ 340 billion - worth of climate - relate loss by 2050 unless action be take to curb rise temperature and sea level . I have already say why it be so very important to get to net zero by 2050 , not just for we in this Parliament but for future generation . if the Government continue to deny reality , we will miss out on the huge economic opportunity that net zero present . the government - commission review of net zero recognise that their tepid approach mean that the UK risk lose out on green investment , and as we hear from the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) , there be many project that could benefit from that investment . employment could benefit , as could our tax revenue , yet the Government ' s dither and delay and their tepid response to the climate emergency mean that we be not only lose out on stop carbon emission , but lose out economically . if the public and private sector do not invest now , we will turn our back on investment that be potentially worth £ 1 trillion by 2030 , as well as up to 480 , 000 new job by 2035 . we Liberal Democrats call on the Government to announce a £ 150 - billion public investment programme to fire up progress towards net zero . much of that money should be invest to support renewable project such as solar and wind , as well as marine energy , about which we have not hear anything today . our target be for at least 80 % of the UK ' s electricity to be generate from renewable by 2030 , which be possible with the right investment and the right framework . we Liberal Democrats believe in incentivise not only business , but household , to invest in the green transition . that could and should include increase the pitiful amount people be pay from the smart export guarantee , ensure that those who invest in solar panel on their roof get a fair return . the climate crisis can not wait . penny - pinch now will lose we fortune in the future : government investment and the right Government policy and framework be need to meet the climate change challenge . we need a government lead by a Prime Minister who be very much interested , rather than " simply uninterested " . in September last year , I be lucky enough to go back to visit New Zealand , tone up my accent , learn about the all Blacks and all that sort of stuff . I go to the South Island only , and at the beginning of the trip I go through a tiny village in the north of the South Island call Appleby . in the early to mid - 1870 , Appleby have a tiny school with four pupil . look at it as I go through , it probably still have a tiny school with four pupil . however , one of those four pupil in the early to mid - 1870s grow up to be a man call Ernest Rutherford , the father of nuclear physics . so it always quietly amuse I that , despite that , New Zealand have a mind - numb allergy to nuclear power . fortunately for New Zealand , it can get away with it , because it have wind — plenty of it in the north of the North Island at the moment — as well as solar , geothermal and hydroelectric , and all in abundance , as well as a relatively small population . we do not have that in the UK . for we , nuclear power will have to be a substantial contribution to our power source — perhaps as much as 40 % , perhaps more . at the moment , nuclear provide only 19 % of our current demand , so , sadly , we be start from a low base . of our 13 current reactor , all but one be to close , as I understand it , from 2030 . this coincide with the anticipated launch of Hinkley Point C , while Sizewell C have planning permission , but be year away from provide power . fortunately , the Government have start a little lateral thinking , and they be open the door to small modular reactor . a number of british or British - base firm lead the world in this area . I find the area of nuclear power fascinating , but I have to admit , before I get any awkward technical question , that this be put a strain on my physics knowledge , because it be year out of date and I study it only briefly at university . in the UK , traditionally we be look at light water reactor , but I understand that we be also look , and should be look , at speed up the process for advanced modular reactor . these , I understand , would be complementary to the other small modular reactor . I be lead to believe that advanced modular reactor development should and could be fund by industry , actively support by the Government , to move fast . these reactor , I be tell , could come on stream early , thus fill the potential impending gap in our energy supply . of course , our golden gem , which be almost within the UK ' s grasp , be the prospect of harness fusion , rather than fission . the research unit at the Culham Centre for Fusion Energy near Oxford be probably lead the world in this field . fusion energy sustainable technology have to be the answer to supply a grow population in the UK and potentially globally — perhaps even New Zealand in time . fusion energy produce no greenhouse gas , be inherently safe and provide virtually limitless fuel , while waste be minimal , so it fit all the criterion . fusion will have a key role to play in the energy market of the future . I can recommend a visit and a guide tour of Culham : it be exciting . as I have mention , I must admit that it strain my ancient university lesson on physics and I struggle to keep up , but even with my limited knowledge , I could see that this have to be our energy saviour . Culham be in the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority collection . while this be sensible in some way , it do mean that it be within the chicken coop of civil service pay scale . will the hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? sorry , but the hon . Gentleman come late to the debate , and I be just about to finish . this , I believe , make it difficult for Culham to attract and retain its highly important specialised staff . external attraction of staff must be expect : they be be draw to and entice away by other country , which be chase exactly the same target . in this situation — I hope the Government will take this point , and I know a number of Ministers have promise to look at it — the Culham pay deficit anomaly really should be sort out urgently . for those who be interested , the development and use of fission and ultimately of fusion nuclear power in the United Kingdom be really exciting at the moment . for a change , the United Kingdom be lead research and lead new development , and we be use this development ourselves , rather than , as we so often do in the past , pass it on to somebody else . this area be a development of which we can be patriotically proud . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I chair the all - party parliamentary group on carbon capture , utilisation and storage . I would like to make a relatively short contribution directly relate to the propose carbon capture , utilisation and storage proposal for Teesside , which could drive huge investment in the area by offer direct access to carbon capture facility and help sustain many of the business that face challenge to cut emission far . my concern , on this estimate day , be that the Government may be short - change not just the potential project on Teesside , but potential project across the country . my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) talk about the Humber , and I agree with she that , without a solution for the Humber , we do not have a solution for the UK . however , I always say credit where credit be due , and the rapid expansion of offshore wind in recent year be something we can be pleased about , but that success be down to the right decision at the right time to provide the necessary financial protection and business environment to unlock vast amount of private investment . what we need now be the right action by Government to create a similar environment to unlock the billion of pound of private sector investment that would follow with the creation of a carbon capture and storage facility , and that be investment in everything from clean power to new chemical plant , which would be able to plug directly into the system to have their emission store . not just that , but the right project with the right support infrastructure will also help sustain many exist job and halt the exodus of firm that , due to increase energy cost and current carbon cost , find their business be no long viable . at Billingham in my constituency , we currently have the Mitsubishi Cassel work work towards final closure , with the loss of several hundred job . CF Fertilisers have cease the production of ammonia just down the road , although I remain hopeful that at least that will restart if energy cost come down . for the record , that be the only remain ammonia plant in the country , and CCUS would help ensure long - term production . yesterday at departmental question , I raise the issue of the pipeline associate with the propose Teesside CCUS project . I be concerned that the Government have change their proposal considerably for the pipeline that BP be charge with develop . my comment be in no way critical of BP , but I be concerned that many business be be shut out of the project . apparently , accord to industrialist on Teesside , the propose pipeline system will not connect CF Fertilisers and Kellas to the system , and it will not pass by the propose £ 1 . 5 billion Alfanar sustainable aviation fuel plant . be that because insufficient resource be be provide to what I think be one of the Government ' s flagship project ? when I ask the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , for an update on this very specific matter yesterday , he and the Secretary of State look at each other with blank expression on their face , before there be a few sentence of general waffle about how commit the Government be to CCUS . well , that simply will not do . be the Government really satisfied that there be sufficient resource in these estimate to achieve what need to be do ? if they be already cut out part of the Teesside project , how can investor be confident that the correct financial and business environment will be create to allow they to invest ? be the Government really prepare to lose not just exist propose development but many more by commission a project that fall short of what be need ? on Teesside , we desperately need the assurance that will unlock the real potential of CCUS , not some sort of second - class project that will not meet the need . we have have too many false dawn for CCUS . I really believe that the Government be finally do the right thing , but I can tell the Minister that confidence be start to wane . I be delighted when some of the project in my area be give the green light to move to the next development phase , but I be disappointed that the announcement miss out so many other project . those project would have be finance by the private sector if only the Government have get their act together and create that necessary business environment . the Government shortlist 20 project for co2 capture but , as we know , none on the Humber be select , and there be just three on Teesside . now we have learn that the onshore CO2 collection pipework will not be build to the extent originally plan and will therefore not go to co2 emitter CF Fertilisers and Kellas Midstream or pass the all - important aviation fuel plant I mention . there be also no plan for a spur to be build to the Wilton International site , which be also of concern because the chemical park have 200 hectare of freeport tax zone and be a prime site for direct foreign investment . my message to the Minister be that we need the onshore CO2 collection pipework to be build in full and as plan to enable those and other company to capture their co2 , and so that company want to invest in new plant that require CCUS facility will come to Teesside , because we will be able to say that the CO2 pipework be in place , or be at least plan to be build soon . however , none of that investment can be guarantee any long , and I be sure that the Minister will share my concern at the content of the Climate Change Committee report , which state : " we have be slow to react to the US Inflation Reduction Act and the EU ' s propose Green Deal Industrial Plan , which be now a strong pull for green investment away from the UK . " one example in the report say that the Government have " no policy to deliver " on decarbonise the steel industry . I have also hear that a chinese petrochemical complex be be equip with CCUS , which mean that we could easily lose our first - mover advantage in this area if we do not get on with this . will the Minister comment on claim that the North sea saline aquifer — the Endurance field — will initially not be able to take any more than the three project - worth of CO2 ? I understand that that be dispute , but we need clarity . we need to build the onshore CO2 collection infrastructure in parallel with drill more access point into the Endurance field . as the Minister know , uncertainty be the killer of investment , and we have have no clear steer about what be happen , beyond learn that the onshore CO2 pipework roll - out be more limited than expect . the recent Skidmore report describe the " prize on offer to UK industry " and say : " it be essential that the UK act quickly and decisively . there be a new global race to maximise the growth potential from net zero at a time of wide geopolitical uncertainty . we be now at a crunch point where the UK could get leave behind . " the private capital be there , but it need to be release . minister need to act . they need to ensure that they have sufficient committed expenditure in these estimate to do the whole job — not just on Teesside but across the country . failure to do so will leave the UK lag behind on CCUS . we will see current investment proposal withdraw and end up with a project so limited that it will fail to deliver the huge potential benefit to Teesside and the rest of the country . on Friday I find myself , rather unusually as the Member of Parliament for Peterborough , on a site visit to Cambridge . however , I want to reassure my constituent that I be talk at the Welding Institute in Cambridge about a project that could benefit the city of Peterborough . at that meeting , I promise that I would try to raise that project at the early opportunity , so I be thrilled that I have the opportunity to raise it in this estimate day debate , as well as to scrutinise the Department ' s spending . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) for secure this important debate , because there be an opportunity and an immediate need for the UK to accelerate its transition towards a greener , low - carbon economy , which will drive productive growth in new industry and technology . partner in Peterborough , include Peterborough City Council , the mayoral combine authority , Anglia Ruskin University and key business , be develop their case for a high - growth energy cluster at the new university campus on Peterborough ' s river embankment . the cluster , which be the culmination of a 10 - year plan to transform the local economy , will platform technology - focus foreign direct investment in the UK to drive growth in the green economy and address some of the most challenging obstacle in the international community ' s transition to new energy . the ambition be to create a new research institute — the global innovation centre for energy transition — to attract large global energy production company , include Shell , BP and ADNOC , as well as a consortium of domestic industrial high - energy user and foundation industry such as steel , glass and concrete producer , to develop the new technology need for the safe transmission , distribution and use of hydrogen in industrial and domestic application . the ecosystem create will also focus on relate technology for the storage of hydrogen and CO2 , as well as the production of sustainable aviation fuel . global energy and technology company be ready to partner with the UK Government to invest in establish the centre and fund a 10 - year programme of research and development worth £ 150 million . the firm will pool resource , knowledge and investment of sufficient scale and scientific excellence to generate the enable technology to produce the new product and system that will allow this new market to form and grow . the R & D programme will create opportunity for local business and supply chain to link into the research institute ' s global network , attract R & D investment into the east of England from large knowledge - intensive business in Europe , the US and the Gulf state . that , in turn , will increase demand for high - level skill and improve access to well - quality job , as well as help to reverse decade of relative economic stagnation by increase the aspiration and wage of local resident in a city that , over the past 20 or 30 year , have not receive the infrastructure investment it merit . although Peterborough — my city — be fantastic , it do have pocket of relative disadvantage , and initiative such as this can help to transform it into a high - wage , high - skill economy . so why be this project need ? the UK ' s natural gas network be currently unsuitable for the transportation of hydrogen , which can permeate and cause failure in steel pipe — a phenomenon know as hydrogen embrittlement . new transmission network will need to be develop from new material , include protective inner coating or non - metallic network material , to store , transport and distribute hydrogen safely . the Government plan to assemble sufficient evidence by September 2024 to enable a decision to be make in 2025 on the upgrade of the national grid distribution network . the global innovation centre for energy transition can be operational in 2026 and ready to develop the solution to enable that transformation to take place . additionally , in many of the foundation industry , the process equipment for the production of glass , steel and concrete , although have show the ability to use hydrogen cost - effectively in pilot trial , be at risk of component failure , possibly present serious safety risk . significant research be need to develop safe material , equipment and operating procedure to allow the transition of these industrial process from natural gas to hydrogen . there be no other plan in the UK to attract R & D activity in this emerge sector . global firm be all look at address specific aspect of the broad challenge . those effort will create a patchwork of solution — they be disparate — but attract a critical mass of the key player to integrate their r & D programme in the UK offer the opportunity to lock those firm into a joint endeavour for decade to come . that , in turn , would provide the UK with the opportunity to find way of convene its science base as a partnership — with , for instance , the Henry Royce Institute and the High Value Manufacturing Catapult — to create a solution network bespoke to the challenge around the transmission , storage and use of hydrogen and CO2 . in a stepwise manner , we can use the opportunity to integrate this research and development in the UK , expand the network of UK institute . that would create an anchoring effect that would make it difficult for energy company to disengage and disintegrate their r & D effort in this specific field . the ultimate benefit of attract and integrate these global R & D effort be the opportunity to link intellectual property into the UK supply chain for myriad technical application , include design , manufacturing and service . the immediate benefit of a new research facility and R & D programme would stem from rapidly establish an innovation ecosystem that generate increase demand for high - skilled worker in Peterborough and the fen , include the creation of 100 direct job in R & D and 200 indirect job in related science , technology , engineering and mathematic . the R & D programme would also create 500 indirect job and induce job through the participation of 150 local firm in global supply chain , as well as new business start - up and spin - out . there would be a substantial positive economic impact on Peterborough city and the surround region , such that an investment in the R & D programme would generate positive effect on new opportunity for graduate - level employment , encourage local participation in high education and the local retention of graduate . when people become 18 in Peterborough , the thing they often do be leave . we need to keep those people anchor in the industry of the future in my city . however , wide benefit will accrue to the rest of the UK as a whole from this proposal . the global market for these new technology be huge . the forecast value for global hydrogen transmission and distribution pipe network have be estimate to be $ 530 billion , or £ 427 billion , by 2050 . by anchor the underpinning knowledge for these solution here in the UK via the global innovation centre , we would significantly increase the chance for british firm , include those regionally around Peterborough and those connect through hub in Middlesbrough and Port Talbot , to be integrate into future supply chain . have the technology deliver here also give the UK first mover advantage for the global roll - out of new technology . what do we need to do to make that happen ? the proposal to build a new research institute on the university campus in Peterborough present a huge opportunity for the regional and national economy . to achieve it , we will need to build on exist expertise and import key element of the Greater Cambridge innovation ecosystem into Peterborough . create connectivity between the two city would help to rebalance growth across the region . we will also need to encourage more resident into high education , enable access to high - value job . in my area , the proportion of the working - age population with high - level qualification at level 4 and above stand at 36 . 3 % . that be below the regional average of 39 . 6 % and the national average of 43 . 6 % . however , that position be also improve , as the gap have narrow by more than half since 2018 . if Peterborough match the national average for skill , an extra 9 , 130 people would have NVQ level 4 qualification or above . the establishment of this new university in Peterborough have provide an essential component for an innovation ecosystem invest in human capital to improve high level skill to meet local economic need , as well as provide vital interaction between business and high education . a new research institute on top of that university be now need to build on those development and to raise demand for high skilled job in the local economy . it would attract global firm and connect research and industry via a bespoke facility and R & D programme that could translate research into practice in the local economy . that would provide a strong future energy sector focus to what be a fragmented innovation ecosystem , and it would harness regional , national and global opportunity in this emerge sector . the proposal for a global innovation centre for energy transition at Peterborough have the potential to leverage significant economic benefit for Peterborough and the UK as a whole . the investment proposal be expect to generate £ 160 million of private investment over 10 year from 2025 . there be a need for public investment in this . against an investment of £ 30 million , the proposal provide a benefit - cost ratio of 3 . 3 , which represent very good value for money . this global innovation centre would be a game - changer for a city such as Peterborough . it be a drop in the ocean when it come to overall investment , but it would benefit not only Peterborough , but our green energy future and the UK as a whole , and we could be at the forefront of these emerge technology . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) . I very much enjoy his speech and in particular the point he make about the potential of green energy technology and the green economy for economic development and growth . one of the thing that west Wales and Peterborough might have in common be the fact that too many of our young people have to leave to find work when they come to the age of 18 . I agree with he that advance and development in green renewable energy technology offer real economic potential for we and could address that demographic trend that have harm our community for many decade . I commend my neighbour and Chair of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) on secure this debate and set thing out so eloquently and impressively . I could just regurgitate the point he make in his speech , such be their quality , but it be important to repeat the fact that Wales have significant renewable energy potential . as he rightly point out , if we realise that potential , it would make an important contribution to decarbonisation effort , as well as create well - pay job and career in a part of the country that so desperately need they and enhance our energy security , the importance of which have be bring into sharp relief in the past year and a half or so . we have already hear about the potential of different type of energy , and I would like to concentrate on the potential of the Welsh coastline not only for tidal and wave energy , but , as the right hon . Gentleman point out , for offshore float wind . it be an exciting proposal . it be not often we can stand in this place and make a speech base on some optimism and excitement , but it be true : Wales have great potential when it come to offshore float wind , and we have a golden opportunity to get first mover advantage in the technology . it be incredibly exciting , not least because of the opportunity it will bring in job and career in south - west Wales . it could also transform the south Wales economy . as be touch upon early , our heritage in Wales , and particularly in south Wales , be of produce energy , albeit in the form of fossil fuel in the past . industry have be build because of the proximity of some of these energy source , and I need only mention the steelwork in Port Talbot . offshore float wind and the potential associate benefit with hydrogen production offer a real future for green method of produce essential material , such as steel in Port Talbot . that would not only bring job and new career to south - west Wales , but could offer a way to safeguard some of the important industry of the future in south Wales and far afield . it be therefore not surprising that the Welsh Affairs Committee have concentrate in the past two session on this field . as the Chair of the Committee outline in his opening remark , we have undertake a few report and inquiry and make some recommendation to the Government . I will not list they all , otherwise I would be here all afternoon , but I will bring some important one to the House ' s attention . the Committee call on the UK Government to set target for float offshore wind up to 2045 . he mention that while we need short term target , we also need a clear outline for investor so that they can have certainty in bring about investment decision in this new and emerge technology . we also recommend that the Government use contract for difference to guarantee that local area benefit from the development of these new technology , and that they provide great clarity on the timeline for delivery of work on strengthen the grid and commit to significant anticipatory investment , as my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) mention in his remark . I appreciate that the UK Government have already respond to the report , but I would be grateful if the Minister touch on some of that work when sum up the debate . I will take the opportunity to discuss and perhaps counter what appear to be a grow tendency in certain quarter to cast a bit of cold water on the importance and viability of the transition to more green technology . the narrative run that it be far too expensive and will be an unsustainable burden on household budget , so we need to de - prioritise it . the Welsh Affairs Committee ' s work put pay to some of those misapprehension by identify how green technology can serve as an important economic development tool in area of the UK that be quite simply in need of level up . such scepticism about the transition nevertheless offer a useful reminder that it be not enough just to set ambitious target or a general objective on the transition to renewable energy source ; we also need to ensure that the proceed of do so benefit community in the UK and that they be distribute fairly . many member have mention that , so I will not go into it in detail , but we do need to ensure that we learn the lesson of the past . we need to be mindful that in previous iteration of offshore wind development , a number of the benefit from skill , job and technology be really feel in other country . for offshore float wind , we need to ensure that we benefit from those skilled job , expertise and technological advancement in the UK — and ideally in south - west Wales . to achieve that , work be still require to develop more robust supply chain for the manufacture and assembly of the component need to build these renewable project . it be not an easy task , and we will not be able to realise it overnight , but the soon we set some of these plan in motion , the well . in the south Wales example , that be complicate by how we will need close co - ordination between the Welsh Government , local authority and the UK Government , but the soon we sit down and get the plan clear in our mind , the well . we will need those skill by the time that — hopefully — the project come to be build . the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee also make the point that when the Crown Estate come to mandate supply - chain requirement for offshore wind developer along the coast of south - west Wales , we must ensure that there be a strong mechanism to hold they to account on some of those commitment . as a number of hon . member know , Plaid Cymru have long hold aspiration to see management of the Crown Estate devolve to Wales . that be a debate in itself , and I will not retread some of that old ground . however , there be some idea and potential benefit that the UK Government might want to explore far . it have be argue that management of the Crown Estate in Wales could give the Welsh Government the opportunity to allocate a proportion of the proceed from lease and licensing to benefit future generation by way of , in effect , a wealth fund . that be not a novel idea — other country such as Norway and Qatar have do it in the past for oil and other fossil fuel source , rather than for renewable energy — but perhaps we could be do that in the renewable context . I would be keen to hear whether the Minister think that have some mileage . a 2008 study by PwC find that the UK could have build up £ 450 billion have it put tax receipt from oil and gas field into such a fund from the beginning of the exploitation of gas in the North sea . we could learn a lesson from that and start invest now to create a fund that could serve as a buffer against future economic shock , which be particularly important give the likely impact of climate change on the world economy in the come decade . as I conclude , I would like to raise an idea with the Minister — I aim to be helpful in these debate — about the potential of use rooftop and car park to generate solar power . research publish early this year by University College London find that by 2050 there be scope for up to 117 GW of low - carbon electricity to be generate from roof and other develop space in England alone . to put that in context , that would be a significant contribution when we bear in mind that the UK Government ' s target be for 70 GW of solar power by 2035 . I would appreciate the Minister touch on that idea and whether the Government ' s solar taskforce could consider that . net zero by 2050 be not an arbitrary target but a scientific assessment of what be need to limit the impact of climate change . it will require significant economic change . the Government be rightly not make uncosted spending commitment but provide a signal to business and let the market do the heavy lifting . despite huge progress be make on net zero , investor need reassurance that the UK will continue to be a leader . I rise to speak about the potential of the Celtic sea and the possible lose opportunity if we do not speed up the process to get project float . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the Celtic sea , I strongly support the Government ' s target of have 5 GW of float offshore wind by 2030 , and I be delighted that the Celtic sea have be identify as a key development opportunity to complement exist deployment in the North sea for the simple reason that the wind blow the other way round there . we need to develop both area to optimise wind energy production . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) — we work together on the APPG — for secure this important debate as the development of flow be a once - in - a - generation industrial and levelling - up opportunity for community right the way around the Celtic sea , from his constituency and along the south Wales coast to mine in North Devon and down through to Cornwall . while I welcome the £ 160 million float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme , which open for bid this spring , I look forward to see a fair share come to key Celtic sea port . funding decision on FLOWMIS should be make as quickly as possible to allow our port and supply chain to gear up for this huge opportunity . the sector present enormous economic opportunity for the UK , with recent estimate suggest that it could add 29 , 000 job and bring £ 43 . 5 billion in gross value - add to the UK by 2050 , with investment particularly concentrate in the North sea and , hopefully , the Celtic sea . it be for those reason that I be passionate about flow in the Celtic sea as it present an opportunity to create an industrial renaissance of our port and supply chain in south - west England and Wales . despite the success of the twin hub project in Cornwall in allocation round 4 , the ambition to have the Celtic sea as a key contributor to reach the 5 GW target for 2030 appear to be delay , with the announcement of the result of ar5 not come until September , and it look increasingly likely that ar6 will also be behind its original schedule . it be important to note that those invest in such scheme be international company and that there be grow overseas opportunity available to they . RenewableUK and the wide industry advise that the administrative strike price be possibly too low to make some bid commercially viable in AR5 . the process be obviously still ongoing , but I hope that the Department be take step to ensure that the strike price in the next leasing round take into account the rise global pressure of the last 12 month plus the price of develop an innovative new technology in a region that have not yet have the opportunity to develop a supply chain , as this be a new industry for the Celtic sea . since AR4 , the global picture have change markedly with industry such as FLOW now face unprecedented global economic pressure , which have lead to construction cost rise by 20 % . the UK be in a race against global competitor . only 200 MW of flow be deploy worldwide , and 40 MW of that be in the UK , but if we do not act decisively , we could lose out to pressure from the US and the EU . AR5 , as design , may secure only about 30 % of all the available shovel - ready project . if project do not begin build , it be questionable whether the supply chain and port will have sufficient confidence in the sector to start invest . in that situation , there be a risk that we will have 2 GW less floating wind by 2030 than the original target and projection , which will be detrimental to both the UK ' s supply security and the cost of energy . the auction also potentially put £ 20 billion of short - term investment into the UK at risk , as well as thousand of job , which will disadvantage we globally . if the UK be to compete globally , strike price must be set appropriately to kick - start this emerge industry into a sustainable source of job , skill development and value , and not only in the Celtic sea but across the United Kingdom as a whole . an additional financial challenge have be the delay to the commencement of the much - anticipate Celtic sea leasing round , which be manage by the Crown Estate . although I warmly welcome yesterday ' s confirmation of new site , developer need certainty as quickly as possible to develop a full business case and make application to future allocation round and auction . at this stage of technology development , it be essential that innovation project start their journey now if they be to succeed and help grow a flourish UK supply chain . initial opportunity must be maximise to develop the capability to secure the economic benefit of the subsequent large - scale flow project , so that in future we can maximise export to the grow global market . however , industry have not be provide with the certainty they need as , despite yesterday ' s market update from the Crown Estate , there appear to be delay in bidding due to spatial and policy issue . I ask the Minister once again for an urgent meeting with the Secretary of State to discuss the future delivery of flow in the Celtic sea . if flow be not successful in AR5 , there be a risk that we will have 2 GW less floating wind by 2030 than the current target and projection — detrimental to both the UK ' s supply security and the cost of energy . flow in the Celtic sea be in danger of not realise its full potential and not make the meaningful contribution it rightly should to the UK ' s 5 GW target by 2030 . I draw the Chamber ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Member ' s Financial Interests : my shareholding in Bridgen Investments , a company that generate considerable volume of green electricity . this estimate debate be extremely important , especially consider how lively the debate be in the field of climate science — not reflect in the Chamber today . give the effect on a population already struggle with energy bill ; the grow public awareness of doom - monger with their deadline that never actually come to pass ; the extreme sacrifice be force on we all , which may be futile in the face of China , Russia and India continue to increase their use of fossil fuel enormously , it appear that the Government be take one side of a scientific argument and , once again , declare it to be an unchallengeable fact . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , who be no long in her place , be clearly a champion of wind and solar technology . there be a place for those technology , but the question I want to ask she , though she refuse my intervention — perhaps the Minister will help she out when sum up — be that on those long , cold winter night when the wind do not blow , if we rely on solar and wind power , what will keep our house warm and industry run ? the fact be that the UK account for less than 1 % of global emission . on that basis , we be voluntarily reject entire establish industry that have be prove to work to keep we warm , fed and shelter . we be ask to reject those for the fantasy of just stop oil protester and Leonardo DiCaprio - esque climate scientist . we be ask to reject those for technology that either do not yet exist or have not be prove at scale . the Government can not prove many of the concept we have hear about . I seem to remember that for the last 40 year , fusion reactor have always be 20 year away . if I ask the Minister , I think we would find that they be still 20 year away today . we be ask to reject technology for those that do not even exist and be not prove at scale . not only can the Government not explain exactly what technology we will use , but they can not give an accurate estimate of what it will cost . accord to some estimate , the drive to net zero could cost £ 1 trillion , or even £ 3 trillion . if that be on the low side , £ 1 , 000 billion will be slam on the overdraft of the generation to follow we . I be not sure they will thank we . as with all fail experiment , the only certainty be that when the bill come in , the people will have to pay . I be remind of the beacon — or , more accurately , the white elephant — of Government planning and procurement that be High Speed 2 . here we go again . it appear that the Government be use the same behavioural science tactic rely on recently to sell we a storm in our teacup . we have see it again and again . the answer be to make it scary and make it soon . we see it with acid rain , the ozone layer and Al Gore . voter have see Government Ministers alongside Greta Thunberg and her five - year prediction that , by now , humanity would have cease to exist and be wipe out . she have delete that tweet , by the way . there be an inconvenient truth , and the net zero legislator be desperate to hide from it . on renewable — solar and wind alone — energy security be so important . it rely on diversity alone . renewable be not go be able to provide certainty of supply for our home and our industry of the future . the hon . Gentleman be make a thought - provoke speech . he make a point about solar and wind , but do he not accept that other technology , such as tidal , can offer great certainty , and the ability for the network and the grid to plan the generation that it can produce ? yes , we have discuss the benefit of potential tidal energy . we have huge tidal range in the UK — some of the large in the world — but that technology be not here now . it will not keep the light on when Ratcliffe - on - Soar power station just outside my constituency — the last coal - power power station in the country — be decommission in 18 month . tidal energy will not be there to take up that slack , unfortunately . esteemed colleague in both Houses have point out the current plan be wasteful , damaging and may be ill - thought - out . the only thing certain be that , if we carry on down the legally bind route of net zero that the Government have set for we , our people will become poor , cold and less free . it be another prime example of , " we know what ' s good , we ' re go to tell you , and you ' re go to get on with it . " People be get sick of that level of governance . it be the day after 4 July , and we remember Benjamin Franklin ' s word : " in this world , nothing can be say to be certain except for death and taxis . " there certainly will be more taxis . he miss out the authoritarian zealot look to dictate every aspect of our life . if the last hundred year have teach we anything , it should be that we should always be wary of those who turn down the gas light and tell we that our suspicion be all in our head . in follow the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) , I want to say that he and I probably agree that there should not be all doom about the future , and that the protester who tell our child that it will all be awful should pipe down and look to the thing that we be achieve in this country and our technology . I also would say to he , respectfully , not to meet doom with doom , because we will not get anywhere . be the hon . Lady aware that just stop oil protester be pay up to £ 500 a day by their sponsor to take part so vigorously in protest ? it be good money if you can get it . I be not aware of that , but to anyone I meet and to schoolchildren when I go to school , I say , " do not lie down in the road , do not glue yourself to stuff and do not get arrest . go and do your math and your science , and you will be the champion of the future . " my constituency be so packed with innovation and technology business that I could talk all day about it . I have chew the Minister ' s ear off about my hydrogen internal combustion engine campaign , so I will leave that for the moment . I will constrain my comment to two area and project that affect my constituent . the first be the Severn Edge nuclear site at Berkeley , where western Gateway be do an awful lot of work . the second be radiator sludge , which I have mention before and will expand on . on nuclear , I do not understand why it be not completely popular across absolutely everybody . it be a zero - emission clean - energy source that the environmentalist should be entirely pro . the Severn Edge project , Berkeley Green , be a decommission nuclear site with a long history in the Stroud and Gloucestershire area . when I knock on door every week , I get to meet nuclear scientist all the time . some be retire , but it mean we have fertile ground for the future generation of nuclear scientist . the Cotswold Canal Trust , pack full of volunteer , be stock full of nuclear scientist sort out the engineering . I give credit to the board at Berkeley . John Stanton be a good friend of mine now and keep I up to date on what be go on . unfortunately , the Severn Edge gang lose out on the fusion bid . I think that be the wrong decision . I be very happy for Nottinghamshire , but the UK Atomic Energy Authority do a phenomenal job and so do we . we have a cross - party group of politician — Gloucestershire County Council leader Mark Hawthorne , who be excellent ; South Gloucestershire Council and the district council — and we now want a small modular reactor . if the Minister can give I a bit of a nod about how nuclear be move , I will get the band back together . when we show what Berkeley and Oldbury can do , it be a really exciting prospect for the country . the western Gateway have not rest . it have generate significant interest in the Severn Edge site after the conclusion of the STEP — spherical tokamak for energy production — fusion process . they be , evidently , very attractive site and they be ready to go with infrastructure and supply chain . because the UKAEA do such a phenomenally thorough job on fusion , my site have be literally investigate up the wazoo , so there be nothing we do not know about they . for any international and domestic investor who be interested , we can provide key information . on what I want to see from Government , Government investment in accelerate the clarity and regulatory approach for great British Nuclear be critical . the international investor we speak to be present as fund and ready to go , but understandably they need surety for the route through regulation . we have the Berkeley Green University Technical College . I have student up today , young woman in science , technology , engineering and math , and they , too , be rare to go . they want apprenticeship , they want to be work . the Western Gateway be ready to support the UK Government in live discussion with investor about policy , because we can play a major role . one of the great thing the Western Gateway do , and what we all do in our fusion project , be to bring the south - west together but also bring Wales in too , so it be a cross - country project . if I may , I will run through a few of the selling point ; I decide that we could use the Hansard record of this speech as something to send out about Berkeley and Severn Edge . as I say , the site be ready to go and flexible , with a partnership of landowner and local authority in support of the development . we have access to skill and a specialist workforce , with complementary industry and supply chain opportunity . we have Hinkley power plant , Barnwood , and world - lead strength in advanced manufacturing , robotic and cyber . we also have a brilliant company call Vulcain in Stroud . it place people in the nuclear industry , so it know where all the people and the job be . our site be well connected , with motorway connection . the Gloucestershire service on the m5 win the good service in the country award — it be a very good place for coffee . and we have a very understanding and supportive community , partly because of the history of nuclear in the area , which I mention , but also because we do a lot of work with the consultation for fusion , so we know that local people and child be really interested in this work . work with the western Gateway team , I will happily help they lead . a number of mp have work on this — it be not just I — from all side of House and they be really keen . I want to give credit to our local press . the local BBC Radio Gloucestershire be have a bit of a tough time at the moment , but when we be work together for Berkeley and Oldbury , we have BBC Radio Gloucestershire ; BBC Gloucestershire Tellybox people ; Stroud News and Journal ; Stroud Times ; Ian Mean , a very experienced journalist who sit on Business West , write for we ; and Mark from Punchline Gloucester , who be absolutely brilliant . it be rare to get so much business and medium collectively work together so much , but it be because we have such a good opportunity here . we need the investment from the Government and the pace to make progress . the second thing I want to mention — I will not take up too much more time — be radiator sludge . it be become one of my favourite thing to talk about and it be something I absolutely do not expect to be talk about when I enter this place . it be basically about energy efficiency . I want to draw attention to the significance of water treatment in heating system , which I have learn about through a company in my patch call ADEY International . it be a low - cost intervention , be already available and would have immediate and sustain positive impact on energy consumption and carbon reduction . the reason I be raise it with the Government , even on an estimate day , be that it be not go to cost much money . the Government have a campaign and a website to show people how they can make their home energy efficient , but there be nothing about water treatment facility and magnetic filtration . I have take a little gadget in to the Secretary of State to give he a live demonstration of what magnetic filtration can do to boiler . it be my understanding that Worcester Bosch be already attach these thing to its boiler . plumber up and down the land already know that it be good , but the public do not , so I want to see it in the Government ' s gov . uk campaign . ADEY International be a lead expert . it be in Gloucestershire provide job for we locally and we should be use its expertise . research show that , without effective system testing , cleaning and protection from corrosion in boiler and radiator , energy efficiency drop up to 7 % and up to 7 % more carbon be emit . poor water quality be also the big cause of boiler breakdown , reduce the lifespan of a domestic gas boiler by up to seven year . radiator sludge sound quite funny , but it be quite serious and be have an impact on everybody ' s home . research on 100 , 000 home show that 42 % of home be not work to the require efficiency , and be not protect from the risk of rise bill and boiler breakdown . that also apply to commercial property . I would like the Government to look a bit more lively on that ahead of next winter and I would be very happy to assist the Minister with any of that information . it be a great honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) . who know about radiator sludge ? it be a case in point . one of the privilege of be a Member of Parliament be that we learn thing we never would have think we would learn — we have conversation about thing we never would have think we would have conversation about — when we come to this place . my reason for stand up to speak and support what the Government be do on energy and energy bill be that the Humber region be know as the energy estuary . the Humber and northern Lincolnshire power much of the country through electricity power , refinery and food , so we be a vital area for energy . in my constituency in particular , we have so many people work in refinery . if you have a certain brand of mobile phone , you will have a bit of the Grimsby and Cleethorpes constituency in your phone , because we have a refinery that produce the bit of coke that go into many mobile phone . it be one of those strange innovation that we all take for grant and do not realise be make in the UK . we have not only refinery and power station , but the big offshore wind farm base , off the constituency of Grimsby . we also have the large operation and maintenance hub on the globe , base in Grimsby , on the dock . it be a huge industry that be still grow . we need more people in the UK and in my constituency to understand how important it be for the future . we be also innovate with green hydrogen . for those who do not know what that be , it be produce by totally renewable way of work . those innovation will enable we to power ahead and ensure that we can reduce our carbon emission . the Humber region — and specifically the south Humber region — be the big emitter of industrial carbon dioxide in the UK , and that be because of the industry that we have there . it be vital for we to ensure that carbon capture , utilisation and storage , which be the subject of a conversation I have with the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) early in the debate , be push forward . I thank the Secretary of State for meet I last week , along with my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) , to give an update on exactly where we be . we have two bid in the Humber and northern Lincolnshire region . as the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle mention , carbon capture , utilisation and storage need to happen very quickly in the Humber in particular , because without it we will not reach the UK ' s net zero target . it emerge from our very positive meeting with the Secretary of State and his official that the track 1 extension for ccus will be update and announce later this year . Track 2 have already be announce , but there will be an update by September , and allocation will take place by quarter 4 . I work with the industry on a regular basis , along with colleague , and I have be work with the net zero Humber team and the Project Viking team every fortnight to discuss exactly where we be and where thing be happen . I be very happy with the way in which the Government be move forward with renewable energy and with carbon capture , utilisation and storage . we be work together very well , and it have be a very positive experience . I thank Ministers and official for the hard work that they be do , which I know will continue to ensure that the UK be a powerhouse for energy and , in particular , all form of renewable energy . before I call the Scottish National party spokesperson , I must emphasise again how important it be for those who have contribute to the debate to be here for the wind - up speech . I be sure you do not need to remind people to come and listen to I start the wind - up , Madam Deputy Speaker . I commend the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) , the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , for open the debate . the fact that 13 Back - Bench Members follow he show what an important subject he pick . this be clearly the good subscribed of the estimate day debate . for the most part , there have be consensus today . everyone seem to understand the rate of deployment of renewable energy that we need , the number of grid upgrade require , the need to improve consent process , the opportunity to create new green - base job , and the importance of train people in the right skill and of efficient workforce planning . that tie in with the just transition as well . there be also broad agreement on the benefit of float offshore wind , and cross - party agreement about the importance of carbon capture and storage at Humber and Tayside . I shall say something about Acorn later . four speaker be in favour of new nuclear energy , so there be a kind of consensus there , although I will shatter that consensus shortly . with one honourable exception , everyone also seem to agree that we need to get on with deliver net zero . let I begin by raise a point that no one else raise : post - brexit trading arrangement for energy . Energy UK have estimate that they be add £ 1 billion a year to our bill — £ 1 billion that could be spend well elsewhere . it could , for example , upgrade 100 , 000 home a year to an energy performance certificate c rating , or it could just be take off our bill , give the cost of living crisis . I want to know what the Government be do to improve the energy trading arrangement to remove this £ 1 billion surcharge from our bill . I say a moment ago that I would break the consensus on new nuclear energy . although there be clear cross - party support from Labour and the Tories , we in the SNP remain opposed to it . Nuclear be the only energy technology that have become more expensive rather than cheap over the year . on an estimate day , it be worth note that the estimate of the cost of nuclear decommissioning have rise by a staggering £ 130 billion . why do we want to build more new nuclear and increase the nuclear waste legacy ? this would also require the construction of a new nuclear geodisposal site . so nuclear be expensive , and it be not the way forward . no successful european pressurised reactor project have yet be build anywhere in the world . Hinkley Point C be year behind schedule , and the cost have increase to £ 33 billion . I therefore do not understand the rush to enter into a new agreement to build another nuclear power station at Sizewell C , which will clearly cost between £ 35 billion and £ 40 billion — money which , again , could be much well spend elsewhere . the strike rate for Hinkley be £ 92 . 50 per MWh , as oppose to £ 40 per MWh for offshore wind , but the renewable energy contract for offshore wind be only for a 15 - year period , whereas the Hinkley contract be for 35 year . the Government want to enter into a 60 - year contract for Sizewell C . this be collective madness . there be also hide subsidy . if EDF connect with the grid and start generate electricity , it will be pay for do so — let alone the strike rate . scottish renewable energy project , meanwhile , pay the high grid connection fee in Europe . how be that equitable ? there be another hidden subsidy for EDF . the strike rate of £ 92 . 50 be suppose to be reduce by £ 3 per MWh if the Government enter into a contract with Sizewell C , but the Government be now drop that contract . I should like to know why they be give that hide subsidy to EDF , and why they be not hold it to reduce the strike rate . the fact be that we do not need big new nuclear project . we have hear talk of the need for nuclear when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow , but nuclear be not always there when we need it either . over a 10 - year period , each nuclear reactor be offline for nearly 25 % of the year . even the reactor at Sizewell B , the new nuclear station in the exist fleet , be offline for between 15 % and 20 % of the year . Nuclear be not the reliable baseload that we keep be tell it be , and that be why we need to look at other technology , such as pump storage hydro and storage in general . another aspect of nuclear that we have hear about today be small modular reactor . as I say in an intervention , that be a future technology , although people keep talk about it as if it be already here . there be no approve regulate design for a small modular reactor yet , and if Rolls - Royce stick to the assessment that have be make , it be not due to be complete until September next year . how can the Government launch a competition to pick a small modular reactor when there be not even a design that complie with UK regulation ? that make no sense . the talk of small modular reactor make they sound like small compact unit . the capacity of Rolls - Royce ' s small modular reactor will be 475 MW , which be nearly 50 % high than the international definition . moreover , it will be the size of two football pitch , which be not exactly small in my book . as for the cost , it be estimate to be between £ 1 . 5 billion and £ 2 billion per reactor . the kicker be that Rolls - Royce want its own contract to supply between 12 and 15 small modular reactor . what it be actually ask for be an order worth between £ 20 billion and £ 30 billion in up - front capital cost . again , that be money that could be much well elsewhere , and there be exist technology that could be deploy much more quickly . that could include pump storage hydro . I keep return to this point , but SSE ' s Coire Glas scheme in the highland have all the consent in place . it be spend £ 100 million just now on up - front design work . that project could be deliver by 2031 . with £ 1 . 5 billion of private capital investment , there be no Government capital subsidy need ; all that be need be a revenue guarantee and a cap and floor mechanism . the Secretary of State say yesterday that he have be in talk with SSE , but he have not be in proper talk with SSE about develop a cap and floor mechanism . we want the Minister to take that point away today . please will the Government listen ? up to 7 GW of pump storage hydro could be deploy in Scotland — dispatchable energy that will be there when the wind be not blow . it would utilise spare excess energy , take it when it be cheap and dispatch it when there be a need , so it be the perfect complement to renewable energy . on carbon capture , we really need definitive timescale for track 2 cluster . as be say early , investor be get nervous about the timeline . yesterday , the Secretary of State be talk about confirm track 2 this year , whereas in the Energy Bill Committee recently , the Minister say that there would be an update this summer . we need certainty . we need to get Acorn up and run and give it the backing it need . acorn do not need a pipeline , and it be strategically important because it can import carbon dioxide from other cluster in the UK and store it . it should be a UK strategic site , so we really need to get it up and run . finally on technology , I want to talk about tidal stream . concern have be raise about strike rate for ar5 with respect to wide renewable . the same pressure apply to tidal stream . we need to look at the strike rate that it be expect to achieve . we need to find the pathway to allow it to scale up . ringfence the pot for AR5 be welcome , but frankly £ 10 million be not enough . we need to be willing to commit more to support tidal stream in future . this have be a good debate , as I say . everybody bar one agree about the need to hit net zero , and I think we can all see the opportunity for job creation . go forward , we need to grab those opportunity . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) on secure this afternoon ' s debate , which have be very well informed and well argue on all side . I might add that there have be one exception ; I think that one hon . Member make a particularly silly and evidence - free contribution that chime ill with the other , but perhaps we will gloss over that . I have know the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee for a very long time , although I still can not pronounce his constituency entirely right . na h - Eileanan an Iar . thank you very much ; I will not even try myself . among other thing , the hon . Member mention the Climate Change Committee ' s very recent report , as do the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) and other . before I get into the detail of what have be discuss this afternoon , I think it be important to set out what that committee actually say about Government action on climate change , and particularly about the progress make by the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero on the matter within its purview , which include most of the net zero emission target . last week ' s progress report from the Climate Change Committee say quite simply that the Government have a " lack of urgency " , and a lack of interest in pursue net zero target and undertake the action necessary to reach they . it be a devastating report with respect to just how little be be do by the Department to advance the net zero policy framework . as a couple of hon . member have note , the committee comment : " pace should be prioritise over perfection . " that is , I think , the committee ' s very kind and polite way of put its devastating point . basically , it be say , " stop mess about and get on with it . " that have be a bit of a theme among hon . member this afternoon . they have raise issue in several area , include those in the list set out by the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire , who raise the question of the grid , the question of nuclear and the question of float wind . the problem arise in all those area be that we be fail to take action or take the opportunity to push thing forward . all of that will have a very substantial effect on future net zero target . we be here in the UK Parliament talk about the UK context , but do the hon . Gentleman agree that the big context be about rise global demand ? People be go to struggle to find way to get the copper , get the cable and get the people . to meet those target , there need to be internationally co - ordinate thinking about how good to utilise resource , people and what have you . the hon . member be absolutely right . we be in global competition for resource that be presently be procure for thing across the world that we be still think about , worry about and wonder whether to go ahead with , when we know that the availability of those resource be rapidly run out . if we do not take action very soon , we will simply find when we come to the table that all the food have be eat . the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire highlight the grid , which he rightly describe as not fit for purpose . my personal view be that lack of action to undertake the necessary uprating and reorganisation of the grid will be the undoing of all our net zero ambition . we have hear that project seek to get their connection to the grid firm up be face delay of up to 10 year . if we do not urgently get the grid up to scratch so that it can capture and deliver low - carbon electricity , we may well completely miss our target , because we will have a number of scheme in hand but will be unable to plug they into the grid to deliver any low - carbon power to anybody . urgent action to get the grid up to scratch be important . the grid need to be able to deliver electricity around the country effectively . at the moment there be a tremendous problem with constraint between Scotland and the north of England and the south , where we be increasingly turn off low - carbon power to balance the system . quite often , we be bring gas into the system because we can not move that power around the country properly . we need urgent grid bootstrap to make constraint a thing of the past , and the Government have only recently wake up to the idea that action should be take . frankly , they be way behind the curve on the work that need to be do . the hon . member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) make a telling contribution on the future of float wind in the Celtic sea . we have to bear in mind that float wind be part of the ScotWind process , too . I do not need to add anything to what she say about the danger of fail to reach our target on float offshore wind development and all that that mean for renewableuk ' s ambition to have some 34 GW of float offshore wind in UK water by 2040 . we be go to miss that initial target , so where will we be on our future target unless we get our act together on supply chain , the grid and the development of offshore wind in general in the very near future ? my hon . friend the Members for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) and for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) raise the issue of carbon capture and storage , and the problem we be have with develop it for the future . they be absolutely right , among other thing , to query the arrangement that be presently under way on cluster development . it baffle I , to be honest , that we continue to have competition between cluster on CCS and hydrogen development . we have a first - track competition before place in reserve — whatever that mean — the important scottish cluster , which be essential for the future of CCS . we have second and even third row of cluster wait to see whether their ambition can be realise . a number of company involve in those ambition have put their concern on hold while the Government decide the track for each project . we should not have track ; they should proceed together . we ought to be clear about that . if the Department have a target for consultation and paper , it would have easily exceed that target , but I be afraid they be not yet attach themselves to the urgent progress need on net zero . that be the main charge lay against the Department by member on both side of the House this afternoon . it be a pleasure to close this debate for the Government . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) for secure it , for his work as Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , which have contribute to the debate on energy in the round by produce a comprehensive and thorough report on energy in Wales , and for his description of the issue ' s importance at this moment . this be a very exciting and challenging time for all involve in the energy debate , which be probably why 17 member , include 13 Back Benchers , have take part in this debate . they all make insightful and useful contribution , and they be all engage not only with the Department but with the various industry , company and sector that be active in their respective constituency across the UK . we be undertake a whole United Kingdom effort right now . the United Kingdom ' s energy infrastructure be at the core of our journey towards achieve net zero by 2050 , reduce our reliance on import fossil fuel and ensure affordable energy for our citizen . we find ourselves face the unprecedented task of transform our infrastructure , include electricity generation , hydrogen production and energy network among other area . this transformation be vital not just for a huge range of sector but for the nation as we improve our energy security follow the event of the past 18 month . deliver on our commitment on both energy security and net zero necessitate the development of new transmission network infrastructure throughout Great Britain , both onshore and offshore . this grid transformation must , as the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) say , be carry out swiftly , give the project doubling of overall electricity demand by 2050 . member be acutely aware of the scale and importance of this challenge , as be the british Government . furthermore , this transition also come with major economic opportunity for green growth and green job , which we be determined to seize . together with partner in industry , Ofgem and other , we be work to deliver this once - in - a - lifetime transition while ensure that we all feel its benefit . I have hope for a damascene conversion on the Floor of the House by the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) , but he continue to disappoint by refuse to countenance the prospect of new nuclear project north of the border in Scotland . I be incredibly proud to be this country ' s first ever Minister for nuclear . however , it sadden I deeply that we will not see any development of new nuclear project in the country I come from because of the luddite policy of the SNP and its partner in Government , the Green party . Nuclear provide clean , affordable and secure energy , and the sector be of paramount importance as it underpin the whole economy . we have a diverse mix of low - carbon generating technology in the UK and , along with invest in new technology to lead the global mission to tackle climate change , new nuclear have an important role to play in reduce greenhouse gas emission by 2050 . that be why next Thursday , with great pride , we will be launch Great British Nuclear and begin the down - selection process to ensure this country invest in the small modular reactor technology that will help we to deliver our project target of 24 GW of nuclear power on the grid by 2050 . I now turn to some of the contribution to what have be , overall , a very positive debate . my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire open the debate by describe the situation we face right now and what we have to do to tackle it . he also speak about how this moment be both exciting and challenging . I can confirm that I have already meet the Crown Estate to discuss how we can work much well together . he also raise the important issue of skill , which be the big challenge we face in deliver all the project we seek to deliver over the next few year . that be why I have already instigate work between my Department , the Department for Education , the Department for Work and Pensions and , crucially , the Ministry of Defence , so that we can all work together to improve the skill base and to ensure that the next generation have the skill they need to contribute to the energy revolution this country be undergo . the newly independent hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) contribute to the debate , as the Chairman of the Select Committee . he make an interesting contribution about hydrogen and , as I often do , I agree with he , as he yet again hit upon the importance of hydrogen to the wide energy mix in the future . my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) , a great champion of the west midland in general , be right about Labour ' s energy surrender policy . we have an energy security strategy , whereas Labour have an energy surrender policy , presumably write by just stop Oil . it have contribute £ 1 . 4 million to the Labour party in recent year , which be important to this debate . she be also right to highlight the company in her constituency , Enfinium , and other in the west midland that be work hard to contribute to the new technology we be go to have to harness in this revolution . let I turn to the comment about carbon capture , usage and storage . it be an important part of the debate and it be discuss by my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) and the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) . ccus technology have the potential to accelerate our decarbonisation across the UK , but especially in the Humber region , as have be say . we select the east coast cluster as part of the CCUS programme ' s track 1 . we will launch a process later this year to enable the expansion of track 1 cluster , include on the Humber . we also set out our view that the viking transport and storage system , give its maturity , be one of those well place to deliver Government objective for track 2 . we will provide an update on track 2 in the summer . I thank the Minister for that informative response . will he emphasise that although the viking project be crucial , two pipeline be need in the Humber , one at Easington and one at the south ? to meet our net zero target , we would need to deliver both . will he briefly comment on the other pipeline , as well as the viking project ? give the limit on time , I will not . however , I commit to meet the hon . Lady and other member from the Humber region — or one of my ministerial colleague will do so — to discuss how we can move those project forward at a pace that she would find acceptable and that would be beneficial to the Humber region . my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) , who be such a champion not just her constituency but for the nuclear industry in general , raise the prospect of the innovation and investment that we be take forward and make in nuclear . I look forward to have many more conversation with she in the month and year ahead , as we get great british Nuclear off the ground , begin our down - selection process and then move forward to further gigawatt project later on . the only problem with the comment make by the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , which be well informed , be that they be so negative . as my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) point out , we can not meet doom with doom — we have to be positive about the benefit to our economy , this country and the environment that will be bring by this energy revolution . I be very positive , as be this Government . for those who think that this Government be complacent , let I say that this Prime Minister and this Government create the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , we be lead the G7 on cut carbon emission and we be launch new nuclear programme , as well as invest in new technology across the piece . this Government be not complacent : we be tackle the challenge head - on and we be grow the economy in the process of do so . will the Minister give way ? I will not , sorry . my hon . friend the Member for Mole Valley ( Sir Paul Beresford ) be right to raise the prospect of fusion and the transformative impact it will have . as have be say today , and as everybody say , fusion be always see as be 20 year away . I can inform the House that we be look to have the first commercial fusion reactor on the grid in this country by 2040 . we be absolutely lead the world in this regard . it be fascinating to go up to the Culham centre to see the development that be take place and the science that be happen on that site . I can not wait to see the development at the West Burton site in Nottinghamshire as we move towards commercialisation at scale . we hear contribution from the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) , my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) , the hon . member for Ceredigion ( Ben Lake ) , my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) , the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) , my hon . friend the Members for Stroud and for Great Grimsby , and the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) and for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) . it have be a very positive debate overall . I be pleased to have be able to respond on behalf of the Government . I be very committed to lead the change that be require to our network , infrastructure and national grid , and in bring forward the new technology . we be proud to lead the world in end contribution to climate change , as be demonstrate through our commitment to build a new energy infrastructure on a scale never see before in Great Britain . our strategy support our ambition for green growth and job , and will ensure that our energy infrastructure be secure and resilient , and deliver value for money to consumer , while deliver on our net zero target . with the leave of the House , I call Stephen Crabb to wind up briefly . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . with the leave of the House , let I thank the Minister for that summation and the Opposition Front - Bench spokesman . this have be a very good debate . the fact that it have be so well attend and the quality of the contribution from member on both side underline its importance and timeliness . I , for one , think it a good thing that the debate have not just be full of consensus . when we have a wide - range debate such as this , we should always be a bit suspicious when there be too much consensus . it be good to have disagreement and an exchange of view , which be what we have have , in the right tone , this afternoon . finally , let I thank all member who have participate , especially my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) and the hon . member for Ceredigion ( Ben Lake ) , who serve on the Select Committee with I and also particularly want to secure this afternoon ' s debate . question defer ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . department for Education Adult and Further Education [ relevant document : Third Report of the Education Committee , the future of post - 16 qualification , HC 55 , and the Government response , HC 1673 . ] Motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Department for Education : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 42 , 894 , 465 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 1383 of session 2022 – 23 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 22 , 809 , 063 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 62 , 518 , 154 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) I be pleased to open the debate . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate on the spending of the Department for Education on adult education , post - 16 education , further education and college , in response to an application by myself and the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) . I will begin by speak about adult education , an area of provision that largely take place in community setting and online . adult education make an important contribution to the social , economic and cultural wellbeing of the UK . it offer people opportunity for personal development , enrich life and boost mental health and wellbeing . it can help people to gain the skill they need to get into work , and to progress their career once they be in work . there really be no downside — adult education be a social good . it be vital that there be opportunity for people to benefit from adult education , no matter what their circumstance . it be important that adult education be make available in community setting and online , and that it be accessible to adult of all age , because the need and aspiration of people and the situation in which they wish to learn be incredibly varied . an adult education student might be someone who give up work in their 50 to look after an elderly relative , who have since pass away . that person could be look to get back into work and , as their first step on that journey they might want to learn something informally to boost their confidence , where there be no requirement for they to study towards a qualification . another person who might benefit from adult education could be someone who have retire , who want to learn something new , such as a foreign language that they have always have an interest in but have not previously have time to study because of work , family commitment or both . another might be a teacher who want to retrain to be an accountant , or indeed an accountant who want to retrain to be a teacher . in short , there be a vast number of reason why adult might want to engage with education ; the opportunity should be there for they to do so , no matter their circumstance , because when an individual thrive , their family and the community around they benefit too . last December , in its annual report on education spending in England , the Institute for Fiscal Studies find that even though total spending on adult skill be set to increase by 22 % between 2019 – 20 and 2024 – 25 , that reverse only a fraction of past cut . the report go on to say that " total skill spend in 2024 – 25 will still be 22 % below 2009 – 10 level . . . spend on classroom - base adult education have fall especially sharply , and will still be 40 % below 2009 – 10 level even with the additional funding . " an article entitle " the dismantling of a sector : adult education in crisis " , in FE Week last September , report " a 50 per cent fall in adult take qualification at level 2 and below , alongside a 33 per cent fall in the number of adult take level 3 qualification since 2010 . " the impact of those cut be devastating to the sector . it be a matter of extreme concern , and stakeholder have speak about the " existential decline " of the adult education sector because of reduction in funding , status and public awareness of provision . it have be describe as a " national tragedy " by sector leader and expert . the cut could not come at a bad time . as we face a cost of living crisis , workforce shortage and a crisis in mental health , a major area of public provision that could be do important work in address these issue be be brutally cut . it make absolutely no sense . from my experience work as an adult education tutor , I know the power of adult education in community setting to improve people ' s confidence , help they gain employment or help they move on to high education . in short , it have the power to transform life . accord to the Confederation of British Industry , 90 % of the UK ' s workforce — 30 million people — will need to be reskille by 2030 . far , the British Chambers of Commerce have note that business be cry out for people to fill job vacancy at all skill level . that must be the no . 1 focus for Government if they be serious about economic growth . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do she agree with I that it be also deeply disappointing to see the decline in the number of part - time mature university student , who also benefit from this type of learning ? my hon . friend make an important point and I thank he for his intervention . absolutely , I do agree with he . it be vital that Government funding of adult education and skill match the need for it . I be concerned , too , that the Government ' s proposal for implement a new further education funding and accountability system could significantly reduce opportunity for adult to learn subject such as art , history , sociology , drama , music , and literature . the Government have consult on the proposal that , in future , all non - qualification provision in adult education in area fund by the Education and Skills Funding Agency , which account for about 40 % of adult education provision , should meet at least one of the follow objective : achieve employment outcome for all learner ; achieve progression to far learn that move individual close to the labour market for all learner ; help those with learn difficulty and / or disability to support their personal development and access independent living . although all of those objective be hugely important , stakeholder be understandably concerned about what this might mean for people who need long to gain the confidence or basic skill to progress into work , and for those adult who want to learn for reason that be not necessarily employment relate . the FE Week article that I reference early also reveal a mass move among adult education provider towards fee - pay course , as free language and creative art provision be squeeze out . it be incredibly important that we have a broad curriculum offer for adult . failure to provide that be to ignore the great potential for personal development that be out there . education be of immense value of itself and it be a poor government who fail to see that . the hon . Lady be make some very interesting point , and I agree with some of they on adult education . do she then welcome the Government ' s lifelong learning entitlement , which be another effective way of get adult back into sustainable work ? it will reduce the benefit strain and the pressure on the public purse . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . I will come on to that point later in my speech . at a time when we have an age society and increase problem of loneliness , it can not be right to bring in policy measure that have the potential to remove or significantly reduce community - base learn opportunity . the late impact report by the Workers Educational Association , which do a tremendous job provide the secretariat for the all - party group for adult education , which I chair , highlight how last year 84 % of its learner report improvement in their overall wellbeing , while 95 % claim that their WEA course make they more aware of what they can do next to improve their skill . that demonstrate just how effective community learn opportunity for adult can be . we need to create an environment in which learn breed learn — one where learner can learn thing in which they be interested and then , through that , find out about other learn opportunity that might be of interest to they . if the Government ' s sole focus , when it come to adult education , be on vocational skill , there be real concern that that aspect may be lose . there be a clear need for investment in the provision of information and guidance for adult when it come to learning , too , and the WEA have highlight the importance of that . it be highly likely that adult be miss out on learn because they do not know what be available to they or what they be entitle to . there be also wide variation across England when it come to participation in adult education . the Learning & Work Institute ' s most recent participation survey , for instance , highlight that London have by far the high participation rate when it come to adult learning , at 56 % . that compare with just 35 % in the south - west . that be a gap of 21 percentage point — a gap that have rise from 17 percentage point in 2019 . something else that could see more adult become involved in learn would be if the Government be to come forward with a lifelong learning strategy that articulate the value of education to the individual and to society as a whole . it be remarkable that England do not have such a strategy and it be something that the sector have long be call for . the Centre for Social Justice have talk of the need for an all - age , all - stage lifelong learning strategy , which build from the foundation of adult community education , and have say that any such strategy should aim to provide every adult who need to retrain with a pathway to develop the skill they need regardless of their starting point . this be something to which the Government should pay heed . an area that need particular attention and investment from the Government be adult literacy . accord to the National Literacy Trust , 7 . 1 million adult in England — 16 . 4 % of the adult population — be functionally illiterate . these be people who may be able to understand short , straightforward text on familiar topic accurately and independently and obtain information from everyday source , but for whom read information from unfamiliar source or on unfamiliar topic could cause some problem . I have speak about that on numerous occasion in this place . I table related amendment to both the Skills and Post - 16 Education Bill and the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , the latter of which be select for a vote . that amendment would have require the Government to include reduce geographical disparity in adult literacy as one of its levelling - up mission . it would also have require they , during each mission period , to review level of adult literacy in the UK , publish the finding of that review and set out a strategy to improve level of adult literacy and to eradicate illiteracy in the UK . unfortunately , the amendment be defeat by the Government , despite receive cross - party support . the subject of adult literacy be also raise by my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton ( Dr Huq ) at Prime Minister ' s question early this year . the Prime Minister ' s response be : " the good way to solve this problem be to ensure that our young child get the reading skill , training and education that they need . " — [ Official Report , 15 March 2023 ; Vol . 729 , c . 830 . ] that completely miss the point about adult who , for whatever reason , may have miss out during childhood and do nothing to help those 7 . 1 million people I speak of early . in ignore the scale of the crisis in adult literacy , I fear the Government be potentially waste the talent of more than 16 % of the adult population . that make absolutely no sense either for the individual concern or for the economy . there be an urgent need for the Government to bring forward a programme to help adult to boost their literacy skill . look at adult education more broadly , Government policy initiative such as the lifelong learning entitlement , which be due to come into effect in 2025 , and the current free course for job offer , have limitation . the latter be limit in scope and cover only vocational level 3 course , while the lifelong learning entitlement be aim at level 4 and above and people over 60 will not be able to access it . in addition , many people will not be able to take out a loan or may feel anxious about do so , for any number of reason , include concern about repayment and the cost of living crisis . those on low income or in insecure employment in particular be unlikely to want to take on debt . the Learning and Work Institute ' s most recent adult participation in learn survey highlight that , of adult who have not participate in learn within the last three year , 29 % of respondent cite cost and not be able to afford it as a barrier . that be something the Government really do need to address . I now want to talk about college and further education . college in England educate more than 1 . 6 million student every year and employ approximately 103 , 000 full - time equivalent staff . they have a crucial role to play when it come to grow the economy and extend educational opportunity . support and investment from the Government be need so that they can continue to effectively fulfil that role . the IFS report from December 2022 , which I refer to early in my speech , look at education spending . it find that further education college and sixth form be in a particularly difficult position when it come to funding and that they see large cut than other area of education after 2010 . there be no extra funding announce in the 2022 autumn statement to help college and sixth form to cope with large - than - expect cost increase . that be a matter of extreme concern and represent a serious threat to the sector . I have hear directly from people who work in further education about the workforce crisis that they be face . they have make it clear to I that , without further investment , there will be no staff to deliver the skill that our economy desperately need . the Association of Colleges have point out that the average college lecturer be pay £ 8 , 000 a year less than average school pay and the sector face particular challenge in compete with both school and the industry it serve . the association be call on the Department for Education to publish an evidence paper on college pay , use information collect by the FE workforce datum collection , to provide the same sort of information that it provide to the teacher review body . the Association of Colleges be also call for the Government to raise 2023 - 24 funding rate in line with inflation , recognise that price be high than they be when the three - year budget be set in October 2021 . that would cost about £ 400 million . without that cash increase , the Association of Colleges have express concern that college will need to make decision this year that will damage their capacity to deliver the skill need for economic growth and will leave the skill reform agenda unfulfilled . it be also call for more investment to support skill in high - priority area such as construction and engineering as we transition to a low - carbon economy . I call on the Government to engage with college and other body work within further education , hear their concern and make sure that they be give the support they need . to conclude , adult education , further education and college be crucial to the education and development of adult of all age in every community . they play a vital role in address the skill and employment challenge that we face and they offer opportunity for people to mix with like - minded people and acquire knowledge and new skill , either online or in community setting . they be important for community cohesion and to address the devastating level of loneliness that be apparent for so many . they enable parent to develop their own commitment to learn in a way that be beneficial to their child and to wide society . in short , adult education be a public good and the Government must make fund it a priority . thank you for stick to the guidance on the time limit , which be much appreciated . I be very grateful to the Backbench Business Committee and the Liaison Committee for their support in approve this debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) on her powerful opening speech on the hugely important topic of adult education , which form one of the theme that we be debate today . she and I be before the Backbench Business Committee with our respective application for debate on FE and college funding , and on adult education . we both agree that , as both application relate to the education estimate , we would be happy to combine they . I share her admiration for the work of FE college and the community education sector in this space , as well as the important online work that they do . I echo her comment about the huge importance of adult literacy . I hope that the House will forgive I if I focus mostly on the 16 to 19 element of this debate . I thank the Education Committee Clerks and member for the huge work that they have put into our report on the future of post - 16 qualification , which I hope we can discuss at some length today . I also thank the House of Commons Library and the Association of Colleges for the valuable briefing that they have provide . before delve into the detail , I should say that , as Chair of the Education Committee , I welcome the fact that the overall estimate for the Department for Education have increase , and that we be debate estimate today that see the total amount , across resource and capital , rise from £ 100 billion to £ 110 billion . we be spend substantial amount of money on education . the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , have be a tireless advocate for the fe sector , which he have often describe as the " Cinderella sector " of education . as he have point out many time , that reflect not just how much it be ask to do with so little resource , but that there be no limit to its potential . as he have often say , Cinderella herself end up marry into royalty . my right hon . friend ' s campaigning help to secure extra hour for post - 16 student as part of the catch - up programme , and his determination to support lifelong learning be as welcome for the fe sector as it should be for high education . as Chair of the Education Committee , he recommend that the Department make the case for a three - year funding settlement for community learn at the next spending review , and reduce unnecessary bureaucracy for provider . part of the reason that I — his successor as Chair of the Committee — want to debate the funding for that vital sector , and indeed for wide post - 16 education , be that it have be , and still be , face a very real funding squeeze . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have report that the FE sector have experience a prolong period of reduce funding , and conclude in December 2022 that 16 to 19 funding have experience the big fall in real - term funding of any education sector , in contrast with real - term growth in primary and secondary school , and a rapid and welcome growth in early year investment . have further education facility be so important for develop new skill , unlock career and train people for new industry . we be soon to lose our main fe provider in my Broxtowe constituency , as Nottingham College move out . on the point that my hon . friend be make , do he agree that we need to increase fe funding so that we can provide more fe and skill provision for local community ? I agree . I be sure that my hon . friend will champion the need for fe in his area , under whatever branding or name it might come . I absolutely agree that we need to see an increase . I will come to more of the reason for that shortly . the IFS also report that college and sixth form have see a long - term decline in spending per student relative to school . that go all the way back to the 1990 , when their funding be around double that of primary . in 2022 - 23 , it be low than spend per pupil in secondary school and only 11 % to 12 % high than spend per pupil in primary school . the report note that although extra funding in the 2019 and 2021 spending review mean real - term increase in funding per student up to 2024 - 25 , those will only partially reverse previous year of cut and the impact of increase number up to 2030 . it be important to note that that analysis come before the high and persistent rate of inflation that we have see over the past six month . in real term , the analysis from the IFS show that both sixth form and FE college have see a substantial reduction in per pupil funding since 2018 , and have lose close to £ 1 , 000 per pupil since 2015 . why do that matter ? we will all know from our constituency — my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) have just give an example — about the hugely important work of the fe sector and local sixth form in prepare student for academic and vocational qualification that offer they a bright future . they be quite literally engine of social mobility . I be incredibly proud of the work of Heart of Worcestershire College in my constituency and the excellent Worcester Sixth Form College , and I regularly visit both institution to celebrate their student ' success . I put on record my thank to the recently depart principal of Heart of Worcestershire College , Stuart Laverick , who be a great champion for the college and the sector . I look forward to work closely with his successor , Michelle Dowse . we also have a number of small provider , include school that operate sixth form — Christopher Whitehead Language College and Tudor Grange Academy — which , alongside our popular and successful sixth - form college , increase the choice and range of option for post - 16 pupil in Worcester . it be fair to say that all those school regularly raise with I their concern about funding . I will take this opportunity to put on record my thank to East Sussex College . it be equally as high - perform as Worcester and be the social mobility engine that my hon . friend describe . however , the finance , which he refer to , mean that it be in a very competitive field for the workforce . it be squeeze between school and high education . that mean they struggle to recruit the quality , highly skilled staff that it need to take we far and high and to deliver on the Government ' s priority . do he recognise that scenario ? I absolutely recognise that scenario , and I welcome that contribution from my hon . friend , another Education Committee member . we hear that loud and clear as part of our inquiry and I continue to hear it from local provider . they compete not just with school and high education , but with the business for which they provide the skill , so there be an extra retention challenge for this sector . this be a crucial part of our education system : the pathway for some between school and high education ; and for other , between school and vocational success , whether that be through apprenticeship or t - level ; and for other still , an introduction to the world of work . for many student who find school hard to engage with , college can also provide a welcome cultural shift , with great flexibility and independence as they move towards adulthood . college play an essential and increasingly valuable role in prepare young people to be the workforce of tomorrow . the Prime Minister have describe education as " the close thing we have to a silver bullet " , and in that respect the challenge he have set for more people to study mathematic until age 18 be welcome . however , that challenge can be meet only if we fund post - 16 education properly . the Minister have never make any secret of his passion for vocational education and of his determination to see it gain parity of esteem in our education system . he have champion fe and college through a long and distinguished career as a Minister and a Select Committee Chair . it be from he that I inherit the inquiry into post - 16 qualification , on which the Education Committee recently report . I have to say , with the great respect , that we be disappoint with some element of his response to the inquiry , which the Committee publish today . the Committee hear evidence from a wide variety of post - 16 provider , from college , academic , teach union and educational expert , and we hear a great deal that be positive about the direction of travel and the drive to raise attainment . however , we also hear consistent and extensive evidence on the resource , recruitment and retention challenge . we make two particularly important recommendation : for a widespread review of spending on FE and post - 16 education , which go to the heart of today ' s debate ; and for a moratorium on defunde advanced general qualification until the t - level route have be more firmly prove . both recommendation be agree unanimously by every Committee member from both major party — seven Committee member be on the Government side of the House — at the end of a long and detailed inquiry . I be disappointed that amid much interesting commentary on the detail of our report and the Government ' s position , the Minister appear to have accept neither of those key recommendation . as a member of the Education Committee , may I say that my hon . friend be make some excellent point ? another point about the roll - out of t - level be that there may be no place for people do advanced general qualification because they do not cover the same subject . quite a lot of 16 - year - old will therefore miss out on the area that they particularly want to study , because the t - level have not be roll out and yet agq be be defunde . my hon . friend reflect the concern — amply spell out in the report — about not remove pathway to success and route forward for student while the t - level programme be , as yet , not fully develop and not fully prove . I think we all accept that t - level can be a very valuable part of the landscape . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be happy to give way to the Opposition spokesman . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for allow I to intervene . regard his Committee ' s call for a moratorium , the Labour party be commit to that . we entirely agree with he , and while he will not be in Parliament after the next election , he can be assure that if we have a Labour Government , the call he have make today will be support . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that clarification . I be sure my right hon . friend the Minister be listen carefully . I know he be not averse to make the case to the Treasury for funding , so I urge he to take from this debate the strong cross - party consensus , reflect in the Committee ' s recommendation in paragraph 179 of our report , that : " to prevent a further narrowing of 16 - 19 education , the Committee urge the Government to undertake a wholesale review of 16 - 19 funding , include offer more target support for disadvantaged student . " before my hon . friend move any far into his excellent speech , the witness to our inquiry be compelling when describe the impact of defunde on particular cohort of student . on the impact of defunde btec , for example , they talk about vulnerable group , include those with special educational need . do my hon . friend agree that for those group , it be especially important that we keep open those pathway to success ? yes , absolutely . my hon . friend be right to draw attention to that specific issue ; I be go to come back to it later and touch on the fact that it be partly the equality impact of those decision that lead the Select Committee to its unanimous recommendation . I will focus briefly on the element of target support for disadvantaged student in our recommendation that I just touch on . I recently take part in an inquiry of the all - party parliamentary group for student , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) — I should call he the hon . Gentleman , but I call he my hon . friend because we have work together for a long time . that be an eye - open inquiry , which reinforce the need for an urgent review of support for the most disadvantaged in the fe sector . the Government have rightly increase the level of pupil premium in school , and have use programme such as the holiday activity and food programme and the levelling - up premium to keep up a relentless focus on tackle disadvantage . however , there be concern about the support available for disadvantaged student in FE , and widespread worry that the available bursary just do not go far enough . the extension of the pilot for pupil premium - plus to post - 16 student be welcome , but we have to query why the extra support for that age group be so much low than the extra support available to pupil under 16 . my constituent Harrison Ricketts , who be in Parliament today to support a Youth Employment UK event , give powerful and reason testimony to the APPG ' s inquiry about the pressure face student . I hope Ministers will look carefully at some of the recommendation in that report , which be pretty reasonable and not necessarily very expensive . in fairness , there be element of the Minister ' s response to the Education Committee report that I welcome . the response expand on investment for the financial year 2023 - 24 . the Government state that they " will invest £ 125 million in increase funding rate for 16 - 19 education , include a 2 . 2 % increase in the national funding rate for academic year 23 / 24 … and an increase in funding for specific high value subject area in engineering , construction and digital to help institution with the additional cost of recruit and retain teacher in these vocational area . " with regard to support pupil from disadvantaged background , the Government draw the Committee ' s attention to the 16 - to - 19 bursary fund , and state that in the last academic year , " almost £ 152 million of 16 - 19 Bursary funding have be allocate to provider to help disadvantage 16 - 19 - year - old with cost such as travel , book , equipment and trip , an increase of over 12 % on the previous year . " the response also state that the Government will continue to approve the international baccalaureate diploma for funding , and clarifie that they do not say — as I think the Committee take they to have say — that they will withdraw funding for the international baccalaureate career programme . I want to expand on the recommendation about the level 3 qualification review , which we have debate at some length . the concern of the Committee be not that we do not believe in pursue high - quality and high - value qualification such as T - level ; we be concerned about the pace with which the Department be pursue that course , and the risk of remove advanced general qualification where student currently find they a valuable pathway to progression . a wide review of funding could help find the resource to maintain a wide choice for student , more flexibility and a range of route to progression , include t - level . we have highlight significant equality concern if Ministers persist with the current approach , and we do not feel that those concern be properly or fully address in the Government ' s response , which we publish today . I do not have time today to detain the House on all the recommendation in our report , but I will highlight the need to address the issue of workforce if we be to deliver on the Prime Minister ' s very worthy ambition of more people take math to the age of 18 . in our inquiry on teacher retention and recruitment , we have hear worrying evidence about the extent to which the Department have miss its target on math teacher recruitment , and in the first session of that inquiry the Committee hear from the FE sector that whatever problem exist for retention in the school system be compound in the post - 16 space . around 25 % of college teacher leave the profession after just one year compare with around 15 % of teacher in school , and three year in , around half of college teacher have leave compare with around a quarter of schoolteacher . in fairness , I should acknowledge some welcome element in the Minister ' s response in this regard , such as the update teacher support fund , the national professional qualification for leader in primary math and the expansion of the Taking Teaching Further programme for further education , but I be not convince that these small initiative fully address the scale of the challenge . my hon . friend be make some good point , but there be two issue . first , bursary to do math be £ 29 , 000 , yet when math lecturer go into the workplace they only get £ 26 , 000 , so their pay be automatically reduce . the other problem be that the pay rise for further education be only 2 . 5 % , when of course teacher get 5 % . that be one reason why retention be so poor . my hon . friend raise two very valid challenge . it be also worth note that the IFS analysis show a significant disparity in pay between college teacher and schoolteacher , even before that pay rise issue . that gap have grow over time , rise from 14 % in 2010 to 21 % today . these be , of course , the very teacher we rely on to get our child the high qualification in their time in school or college , to achieve the Prime Minister ' s levelling - up ambition and to inspire the workforce of tomorrow . to touch on that very briefly , in our inquiry into career education , advice and guidance , we hear from young people around the country who tell we how much well in many case the career advice and guidance they receive be in college than in school . the consensus be that many of they be only properly expose to vocational opportunity , apprenticeship or the importance of the world of work once they reach college . surely where our college be succeed , we should ensure that they be reward for that work , and where they be not be give parity with other part of the education system , this should be query . just yesterday , I attend the launch of the Foundation for Economic Development ' s late report on a national education consultation , and hear its call for a long - term plan for education . this highlight the importance of parity across all area of education and the strong case for level up both early year and post - 16 funding . it call for a 10 - year plan for education to match the ambition of the very welcome long - term plan for the NHS workforce that the Government deliver last week . the Association of Colleges have make the case for a five - step plan , which I believe the Government should carefully consider and to which I would be very grateful for the Minister ' s response today . the hon . member for Wirral West have already mention raise the 2023 - 24 funding rate in line with inflation , which be its first recommendation . the second recommendation be to allow college to reclaim vat . college be now public sector organisation , but unlike council , school and academy , they can not reclaim vat . they spend an estimate £ 210 million a year on vat that they can not reclaim , and they see this as a tax on FE student . this strike I as a sensible and timely recommendation , follow the Office for National Statistics ' decision to reclassify the FE estate , and it would appear to be an opportunity to give the sector a much - need Brexit bonus , give the great flexibility the Treasury now have on vat rule . the third recommendation be to ensure that 50 % of the apprenticeship levy be spend on apprentice at level 2 and 3 and below the age of 25 , echo a concern pick up in the Select Committee report that so much of the apprenticeship levy be now go to old student . we do not begrudge the fact that there be high apprenticeship and opportunity for people to go far , but we do want to make sure there be a balance that keep the door open for people to enter the workplace through an apprenticeship . the fourth recommendation be the need for a big skill fund to support skill in high priority area , and the fifth recommendation be about the college pay analysis , which the hon . Lady have already address . while I appreciate that the Minister will face many challenge in deliver on all those recommendation , I believe that they merit careful consideration and a full response . I believe that respond to those recommendation could make a real difference for my constituent . I have speak to the new principal at the Heart of Worcestershire College about what could be achieve if they be address , and I be give the follow example . the college have have to limit growth in electrical installation due to its inability to attract additional staff in this area . if the college could attract one additional staff member , it could train an additional 30 student per year in electrical installation to meet the grow demand in that sector . the college aim to have a gas centre in Worcester for conventional gas fitting , but also to take advantage of the development in hydrogen - ready and hydrogen boiler and other sustainable technology . it have advertise a position for that role on many occasion , but the low salary just be not attract candidate , and the gas centre project have therefore have to be put on hold . construction be a key growth area in our economy in Worcestershire and across the UK . heart of Worcestershire College have struggle to recruit staff , so there have be ongoing delay to apprenticeship . as a result , the college have have to recruit several short - term agency staff . heart of Worcestershire College have struggle to recruit learn support staff , at a time when young people need more support than ever , post covid , to ensure that they reach their maximum potential and be work - ready . as part of its special educational need and disability work , the Committee hear about the crucial importance of young people get the right support in the right place at the right time , and that absolutely must include our college . I urge my right hon . friend the Minister to keep make the case , as I be sure he will , for an increase in the estimate for FE , post - 16 education and college , but also to consider again the detailed proposal from the Select Committee inquiry he launch and from the Association of Colleges and so many other . I welcome the fact that the Government have set out to create a ladder of opportunity for student , and I recognise my right hon . friend ' s passion for deliver that . I also welcome the fact that much have be do for the college in my constituency , include the consolidation of Heart of Worcestershire College on its riverside site , the refurbishment of its apprenticeship training centre and the delivery of a skill centre , as well as the expansion of our sixth - form college and much - need improvement to its building and facility . I be also grateful to the Minister for his detailed response to the Committee ' s report , but I be disappointed that he could not go far on a funding review or on the moratorium on defunde advanced general qualification , and I challenge he to make the case for both with the Treasury on the back of this debate . the Minister himself have describe this sector as have be a Cinderella sector for too long . it be high time we give post - 16 education the parity of funding and the parity of esteem it deserve . it be time for Cinderella to go to the ball . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) for secure today ' s important debate . the UK workforce face a multitude of present and future challenge . a recent report find that almost 80 % of business be see reduce output , profitability or growth due to the ongoing skill shortage . to help plug that gap , everyone must have the opportunity to upskill for the job of the future . the scale of the challenge be huge , with the CBI finding that nine in 10 people will need to reskill this decade alone . have a thriving further education sector be vital to overcome those hurdle . for decade , college have be help people of all age to upskill . the stark figure I have just mention should be enough for anyone to see the need for investment . however , that be a far cry from the reality face by the sector , which have withstand cut after cut at the hand of this Government . between 2010 and 2020 , spend per student for those age 16 to 18 fall by 14 % . the impact of those cut be clear : the number of adult participate in some form of learning have collapse to only one in three — the low level for 22 year . the Government have bring about a lost decade in adult education , just when investment be critical to meet the challenge of the future . minister might overlook that harsh truth and instead focus on the extra funding announce in the 2019 and 2021 spending review , but our college still feel the full brunt of their cut . even with that extra funding , spending per college student will remain 5 % below 2010 level . for school sixth form , the situation be even bad , and their spending per pupil will remain a staggering 22 % low than in 2010 . to make matter bad , in the midst of a cost of living crisis , there be not a single penny of extra funding for further education in last year ' s autumn statement , despite huge pressure on college and sixth form budget , include sky - high inflation and energy bill rise . if the Government be truly committed to level up area such as Sheffield , they would invest in the vital work of our college and sixth form . I have see that fantastic work at first hand in my constituency , where we be lucky to be home to Sheffield College and Longley Park Sixth Form Academy . both be run by hundred of dedicated staff , who go above and beyond to support student and prepare they for the work world . anybody who see their work be leave in no doubt that every penny of investment in further education be money well spend . I use the word " investment " because that be what it truly be : money put into further education be an investment that pay for itself many time over . I be proud to fly the flag for our further education sector . it have sadly bear the brunt of this Government ' s cut , but it have also show itself to be resilient , and it will continue to benefit we all directly and indirectly . as we begin to face up to the full scale of the skill shortage , and with future technology include AI start to have an impact , our further education system stand ready to help we embark on this new chapter . I be pleased to hear the Minister be press early to fund everything adequately , and we hear about the challenge that be there . the Select Committee have do an excellent piece of work to identify the change that need to , and hopefully will , take place . we should not underestimate the challenge that not be able to claim back vat present to college , particularly with current funding level . retention and recruitment be a massive problem , and many hon . friend have discuss that already , so I will not go over that again . I will finish by say that we hope this round of estimate be not another miss opportunity to provide our college and sixth form with the funding they need to thrive . the sector be in dire need of investment , but if the past 13 year be anything to go by , we will not be wait with bated breath . like other member of Parliament , I be frequently invite to local school in my constituency , to education and skill provider and , importantly , to local business . in recent week , I have visit Ibstock , a big manufacturer of brick , Aldridge Accident Repair Centre , Phoenix Tooling and many other . I hold business breakfast and I speak with local employer , employee , apprentice and student . today ' s estimate day debate be on the Department for Education ' s spend on adult education , post - 16 education , further education and college , and that be to be welcome . it be extremely well time , because we need to keep focus on building skill for today and tomorrow . as we have already hear , we do that through support for the further education sector . it be the only way we can ensure that we be match education and skill spend with the need of industry , whether that be in science , innovation , technology , manufacturing or other key industry in the Black Country and the broad west midland . the pandemic teach we many thing — not only the fragility of supply chain , but the importance of onshore skill and manufacturing capacity in key area . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have set out a range of challenge face by the FE sector , include rise cost and recruitment and retention problem . we have hear some of those already this afternoon . the number of 16 to 18 - year - old be project to rise by 18 % between 2021 and 2030 , which would make , I reckon , for around 200 , 000 extra student by 2030 . we need to be work on address that rise in demand alongside the skill need and funding requirement . I want to use today ' s debate to highlight the impact of skill shortage in the wide workforce and the role that further education and post - 16 education can play to bridge the gap . in a BDO UK survey publish in December 2022 , three quarter of the 500 medium - sized business leader who respond report that the current skill shortage be a problem and could pose a threat to their own growth and the ability to find wide economic growth in the economy . we need to be invest in further education now for future growth today and tomorrow , not least because accord to a Learning and Work Institute report in 2019 , the skill shortage will cost the country £ 120 billion by 2030 due to a shortfall of 2 . 5 million highly skilled worker . when couple with the predict oversupply of traditional intermediate or low skill , we can start to see the emergence of that skill gap . we need education to address that , as well as work closely with and understand the need of industry . I share the Government ' s ambition for the UK to be a high - skill , high - wage economy , but that can be achieve only by address the skill deficit , and we need the broad skill base possible to match those sector demand and need . that mean invest in people , skill and technology , include robotic and AI . I have see some fantastic example in my constituency . last week , in the tooling industry , I see a mix of traditional skill and experience with high - tech skill and apprentice demonstrate how industry , apprenticeship and the education sector really can be pull together for the benefit of all . from speak to local business , it be evident that we have skill shortage in my constituency , with vacancy for technician , mechanic and toolmaker as well as in many other sector . across the wide region , we have business with skill gap and persistently high youth unemployment . to achieve great growth over the next decade , we need great investment in further education and adult education , and recognition that there be alternative to university as part of the education mix . it be really important that young people understand that choice — and I say that as somebody who leave school after a - level and go to university slightly later in life . I have meet some fantastic apprentice . just last week , Britney from my constituency be here speak at an event in the House of Commons , and she be absolutely amazing . we need to do more to encourage female into apprenticeship and engineering and debunk the myth that engineering be a dirty environment , because it do not have to be . it be time to realign and grasp the opportunity to strengthen the link between further education , learn opportunity and industry . in the west midland , with Andy Street at the helm and his tremendous focus and drive for the region , we be grasp that opportunity . we have see the growth of further and high education provider such as Walsall College and local provider such as In - comm in my constituency , alongside the strengthen role of our chamber of commerce . I be sure the Minister be aware that , through the west midland skill action plan , we have see further engagement with business , and particularly small and medium - sized enterprise , college such as Walsall College , Youth Employment UK — I meet it today in this place — and the Department for Education work to increase the take - up of apprenticeship . we see a clear plan to reduce the number of people with no qualification and for more support to be give for people to progress in work by work with the Department for Work and Pensions . give the flexibility offer in the adult education budget through devolution , alongside the national skill fund investment , the west midland have see a sevenfold increase in level 3 provision . cash investment at that level rise from £ 4 . 4 million pre - devolution to £ 13 . 9 million in 2021 . the plan feed into the work of local provider such as In - comm in my constituency , which be a lead provider of engineering apprenticeship , training and upskilling that work closely with industry partner . perhaps I could be so bold as to invite the Minister to visit In - comm . I be sure he would really understand and appreciate its work . the importance of tripartisan relationship between education , provider and industry to address the skill gap absolutely must not be under - emphasise . however , I do recognise the complexity involve in the various funding stream and that the type of qualification be confuse for many industry leader . we need to work to address that . accord to the Coventry and Warwickshire chamber of commerce , business do want to invest in people — even with the current pressure due to the cost of living — but they need to find the right people to invest in . as we shift to decarbonise our economy , the need increase far . like many , I welcome the Government ' s £ 10 million investment to address the outcome of the local skill investment plan , but we need to align education and training provider more closely with industry to ensure that that tripartisan relationship be maintain . I have two ask of my good friend the Minister . first , do the Government have any plan to increase the hour of industry during t - level programme ? secondly , I have a plea not to overlook the fe sector and ensure that it be adequately fund to meet the aim I set out . the west midland plan for growth give a great focus to bring together public , private and university partner who be well place to use their local knowledge to efficiently allocate resource and overcome barrier . I want we to be ambitious for our country and for the next generation while not lose sight of today ' s generation and today ' s skill need . my big plea be : let we work with education , provider and business today to develop the skill we will need for tomorrow . it be a privilege to contribute to this estimate day debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) on secure this discussion on such an important topic . I be contact by the Trafford College Group , which deliver skill and qualification to more than 12 , 000 learner and employer partner across the south of Greater Manchester across multiple college site , include its North Trafford campus in my constituency . like many colleague , I be not naive to the challenge face the further education sector , but I confess that I be still shock by what Trafford College Group tell I about the impact that more than a decade of underinvestment in further education and a workforce crisis have have on its ability to meet the need of local student and , indeed , employer . its frontline experience must be consider today as we discuss departmental spending on further education . allow I to offer a brief summary of what I be tell be happen on the ground : 140 staff vacancy in the last 12 month — a cumulative figure of nearly 20 % of its workforce . in health , care and early year course , it report significant issue recruit staff , due to salary expectation lead to more than 20 vacancy in those area alone in the past year . that force Trafford College Group last year to take the decision to cease delivery of health and social care apprenticeship . give the challenge in recruitment in that sector , that be a tragedy . there be approximately 165 , 000 vacancy in social care and 132 , 000 vacancy in the NHS — the total figure be roughly equivalent to the entire population of a city the size of Newcastle . I suggest to any member of the New Conservatives group who seek to blame immigration for the recruitment problem in our care sector that , instead , they look at their own party ' s record on fund the course that train and upskill the care staff we need , because it be blatantly not good enough . it be not just health and social care where Trafford College Group be have to restrict entry to course . building service , electric , construction , engineering and early year education be all area in which student in Greater Manchester be not access course , which could be vital to improve their life chance , all because there simply be not the capacity in the workforce to teach they . it be not just student who lose in that situation ; each of those course be crucial to the need of our local , regional and national economy . the National Association of Colleges and Employers have highlight construction and engineering in particular as area of the economy where skill shortage be most acute . like social care , early year education be cry out for more and well qualified staff , who can serve the equally essential purpose of narrow attainment gap for child from disadvantaged background while free up young parent — especially woman — to drive forward in their career , with all the benefit that have for the economy through increase productivity . I thank my hon . friend and neighbour from Greater Manchester for an excellent speech . Trafford College Group have several campus , include Stockport College , which I visit recently . one of the key issue that the principal highlight be workforce recruitment because the pay scale be so low . that have a disproportionate impact on more disadvantaged community , some of whom I represent . do he agree that the Government be simply fail on pay for that sector ? my hon . friend make an important point , and he be a champion for further education in his constituency . I quite agree that pay for the further education teaching workforce have lag behind teach salary more broadly for some time . this be a grow crisis , which be lead to a loss of opportunity for our young people . I absolutely agree that the Government be fail on that and need to address it urgently . hold college back with inadequate funding to both address their workforce crisis and reverse the cut since 2010 be the ultimate false economy , but that be exactly what be happen . despite recent uplift , the truth be that further education funding compare extremely unfavourably with both university and school funding . the late IFS annual report on education spending in England find that further education spending per student age 16 to 18 in 2022 - 23 be £ 6 , 800 , which be low than spend per pupil in secondary school and only 11 % to 12 % great than per pupil funding in primary school , have be more than two time great in the early 1990 . the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) make a similar point with that datum early . indicate assent . the report acknowledge that extra funding announce in the 2019 and 2021 spending review would result in real increase in funding per student up to 2024 - 25 . however , that only partially reverse early cut , and increase number of 16 to 18 - year - old up to 2030 will put further pressure on finance after 2024 , when departmental spending plan have be scale back . the director of the IFS have himself say the Government ' s real - term cut to further education be : " not a set of priority consistent with a long term growth strategy . or indeed level up . " in contrast , the Labour party see how a thriving further education sector be essential to growth . that be why a Labour Government will create a skill system that work for business and for people across our country , by reform the apprenticeship levy , devolving skill budget and deliver a national mission to upskill , lead by a new Skills England . devolving skill budget in particular be something I would welcome after see , from my time lead Trafford Council and as the work and skill lead for Greater Manchester , the real need for skill policy to be well align and integrate with regional economic policy and local labour market , to deliver a more localised , tailor approach to skill provision . in short , college , like those currently do great work in the Trafford — and indeed Stockport — area , have a critical role to play in any plan to grow the economy , but they need support and investment to be able to do that after year of decline funding for adult ' and young people ' s education . I hope that when the Minister reply , he will set out what further support and investment will be provide to Trafford College , and college like it across the country , to tackle the workforce crisis that be hold they back , hold student back and hold our local , regional and national economy back , too . it be a pleasure to speak in today ' s estimate day debate , which I think be the fifth allotted day . I begin , like other member , by acknowledge the hugely important work do by all those in our FE college , deliver apprenticeship and provide access to adult education , and thank they for the significant contribution they make to upskille our nation in Eddisbury and across the whole country . for the purpose of my contribution today , I will unashamedly focus on one in particular . Reaseheath College be one of the UK ' s lead land - base specialist college . locate near Nantwich in Cheshire , it sit within my Eddisbury constituency . it be also in very close proximity to my previous Crewe and Nantwich constituency . that mean that since 2008 I have be fortunate to be able to develop a close and very constructive working relationship with the former principal , Meredydd David OBE , and the current principal , Marcus Clinton . rate good with outstanding feature by Ofsted , Reaseheath , which have not long since celebrate its centenary , offer full - time and part - time course from entry level to degree level , and apprenticeship in all land - base subject and in sport . it have 1 , 900 student age 16 to 18 , 360 adult student , 550 apprentice and 130 student with high need . the college ' s truly world - class facility — which I have see many time for myself and make possible , it have to be say , by significant Government funding in recent year — and its industry - focus technical course , help to support continue student success . last year , 97 % of student gain a job or progress on to an apprenticeship or a degree in their choose industry . that be very encouraging indeed . however , as we go through a period of rebalance our academic and vocational offer to student , we must all recognise the change labour market and the need to equip our young people with the knowledge and skill that subsequent decade will demand . in that regard , both the college and I be very supportive of the Government ' s commitment to an ambition for further education , post - 16 skill and apprenticeship , and adult education . in the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , they could not have — from maiden speech to ministerial office — a more consistently passionate advocate . I know that , as be demonstrate only last week in a meeting with Graeme Lavery , Reaseheath ' s vice - principal and director of finance and resource , my right hon . friend will continue to listen and seek to act on some of the issue and concern raise by college that be hold they back from help to achieve that shared ambition , and , in some circumstance , be put they at unnecessary risk . some of those issue have already be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , the chair of the Education Committee , but I want to mention two of they in particular . let I begin with technical level , or t - level . since 2019 , they have be at the core of the Government ' s plan to meet the need of industry and ensure that those enter employment have the technical acuman in order to succeed . Reaseheath have embrace t - level and be deliver a range of course , from business and construction to agriculture , food science and animal care , but in do so it have find that the main risk pose to t - level be the ability to attract competent technical lecturer to deliver to both T - level and apprentice standard . there be also concern about the in - year clawback that place a 10 % threshold on number at t - level college , set t - level funding apart from other further education funding which be base on lag number . other FE college be able to react to a downturn in student number in a measured way , whereas in the case of college such as Reaseheath , in - year cut cause by the clawback can be short - sighted and damage capacity that have be develop over many year , and the implementation of lag funding for t - level be unlikely to happen until after 2025 - 26 . I trust that the Minister be willing to address this , and I look forward to his response . T - Levels also include a substantial element of work placement , and there be an element of funding to support such placement , but a problem be currently affect all land - base college . the capacity and delivery fund , which be design to support the development of network , system and staff , have be withdraw for the 2023 - 24 academic year . the arrangement for the animal management and equine T - level have be defer by the award body until , respectively , 2024 - 25 for animal management and 2025 - 26 for equine . that mean that there will not be enough fund to support the maintenance of those network , which raise the inevitable prospect of valuable link be lose . that be mention to my right hon . friend during our meeting last week — for which , as I have say , I be grateful — and he be kind enough to agree to look into it far , but we really need to bring it to the attention of the Treasury in the hope that we can avoid lose key course at this time of transition . it be also the case that , while significant capital funding have be make available to support the implementation of T - Levels , there be considerable disappointment about the fact that specialist college receive either no or very little funding in round 4 , and the fact that the opportunity that be there to maximise strategic investment may have be lose . my second point , which have also be raise by other member , concern funding and staff recruitment and retention , which be become the most critical and press issue face not just Reaseheath but many other college . despite recent uplift , the base funding rate have fall behind in real cash term over the past 10 year , which have force college to reduce non - pay cost , facility maintenance and the school sector as the gap grow between school and FE . recruitment and retention of staff with the necessary specialist technical knowledge and experience be their large concern , but the issue be now affect all area of Reaseheath , include catering and domestic team . salary scale be understandably affect by pressure from the minimum wage and general inflationary pressure . the college estimate that a 3 % basic cost of live increase would cost it about £ 830 , 000 , while a 6 % increase would cost it £ 1 . 22 million . as much as it would want it to , a sector grant increase clearly would not cover that . to match salary and compete , Reaseheath suggest that it would require at least £ 3 million that be simply not there . as a consequence , the salary that the college can offer be understandably limited to the income that it receive . despite engineering be a critical area for the college and the country , Reaseheath be find it extremely difficult to attract and retain technically competent engineering lecturer , especially in agricultural engineering . it be work hard with employer and their federation to explore how employer , include major player such as JCB , can support the delivery of apprentice in particular , but unfortunately the current subcontracting rule be not flexible enough to support that — an issue of which I know the Minister be cognisant . the college be currently work with the Education and Skills Funding Agency to find a quick and acceptable solution , but the reality be that it will have to mothball the year 1 apprentice in agricultural engineering if a solution can not be find very soon . that all have a significant impact on the employer and the future engineer to support the bounce back . with the additional issue of an age workforce in engineer more generally , there be — as the vice - principal , Graeme Lavery , have tell we — a perfect storm brewing . I ask the Minister , in continue his personal mission to make specialist land - base college the cornerstone of our technical revolution , not only to come and visit Reaseheath College but to intervene where necessary to address its legitimate and well - intentione concern with his customary gusto , pragmatism and relentlessness . my hon . and learn Friend be make a passionate speech , focus on key land - base educational issue . he mention course such as agricultural engineering , animal handling and equine study . do he agree that we need flexibility of approach to protect and preserve the specialist course that be so important for animal health and welfare , for the agricultural industry and for food security ? it come as no surprise that my hon . friend be absolutely right . with his veterinary background , he know a lot about this area . he will know that such flexibility allow we to shape the demand that we place on our land and the skill that will be require to work the land as the technology change . reaseheath be at the forefront of that work and want to continue it , but the Government strategy need a level of flex to compensate for the transitional change that do not always take into account the nuance that we can see at Reaseheath and elsewhere across the country . we need to make sure that the strategic vision become a reality . for the last century , place such as Reaseheath have embody the ladder of opportunity which my right hon . friend the Minister have so long champion . with the right support , they can do so for the next . I congratulate the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , who chair the Education Committee , and the hon . member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) on secure this important debate , which feel long overdue . we can probably all agree that successive government of all colour have leave our sixth form , further education college and adult education provider unlove , to a certain extent , and certainly underfunde — hence the reference to Cinderella . we now expect all child to remain in education or training until the age of 18 , yet spend per pupil age 16 to 18 be low than it be in secondary school . despite that , we ask our sixth form and our FE staff to teach more specialised subject , with small class and on low budget . when Ministers eventually stump up desperately need cash for school , as they do in last year ' s autumn statement , college rarely get a look - in . the result be that over the next few year our further education system face a perfect storm of funding challenge that I sense the Government have limit interest in fix . that include the population bulge that be currently move through our secondary school and be about to hit further education . the Government be also prematurely scrap funding for dozen of level 3 qualification to make way for t - level , as have be set out extensively today . that have lead to an unprecedented situation in which the Association of Colleges have refuse even to make a pay offer to trade union represent fe staff . college simply can not afford to make an offer to teacher that fairly reflect the work they do , and that protect they from the cost of living crisis . when half of teaching staff at FE college leave within three year , our college and staff simply can not afford a protract pay dispute with the Government . sadly , the Government ' s mismanagement of the economy and their failure to control inflation mean the next spending review will involve some difficult and painful decision , but the Open University ' s late survey show that almost three quarter of UK organisation be experience skill shortage . now , more than ever , the Department need to make the case to the Treasury on the long - term benefit of invest in our college , which equip our young people with new skill , nurture their creativity and develop their talent . our starting point should be to support those with the most to gain from post - 16 education . Liberal Democrats in government be very proud to introduce the pupil premium , which target funding at our most disadvantaged schoolchildren . it be high time we extend it to age 18 . I be recently delighted to welcome get far to Parliament . the charity have achieve astounding result by provide small - group tutoring to college student resit GCSE English and math . it be now look for long - term certainty that the Government ' s 16 to 19 tuition fund will continue beyond next year . I hope Ministers will soon be able to provide that certainty . if the Government be look for extra cash , they could repurpose the million of pound of apprenticeship levy funding that be return to the Treasury every year . as we have hear , Ministers be compound college ' funding woe by scrap dozen of btec and other applied general qualification that student value and employer trust . they be a well - establish route for student to get into university , particularly those from under - represent background , with research from the Social Market Foundation find that 44 % of white working - class student enter university with at least one BTEC , and that 37 % of black student enter university with only BTEC qualification . I fully understand and support the Department ' s desire to achieve parity of esteem between academic and vocational route post - 16 , but the Conservative Government seem hellbent on shut down the middle route for those student who would benefit from a mix of both academic and applied qualification , or for whom t - level entry requirement be simply too high . an analysis by the Sixth Form Colleges Association reveal that just 60 of the exist 134 level - 3 apply general qualification will be eligible for public funding after 2025 . at a time when young people need more support than ever to realise and rebuild their future , scrap these qualification be a backward step that will damage the prospect of our most disadvantaged student . popular subject such as criminology , which be study by more than 40 , 000 student , and travel and tourism have fall off the approve subject list entirely . Britain ' s hospitality sector be cry out for more recruit , at a time when the Government be desperate to reduce economic migration , yet the BTEC in hospitality and tourism be be defunde . the Government ' s cater t - level do not even have a start date . how do that make any sense at all ? scrap these course be a huge and unnecessary challenge . in 2019 - 20 , some 17 , 000 student enrol on one of 25 level - 3 childcare course , which the Department be defunde next year . we know we have a shortage of staff in the childcare sector , yet all these course be be defunde . in 2021 , a little over 2 , 000 student start the education t - level that be replace those course . again , that make no sense whatsoever , give the shortage we face . it would take a miraculous expansion of the t - level in 2024 to prevent the number of trainee from fall off a cliff . I have a great relationship with the wonderful Runshaw College in Leyland , and I be in the Chamber to highlight some of the thing we have do to support the college . there be a worry about the 10 % of student who do not have gcse to get on to t - level , and who need some kind of vehicle to help they move into 16 to 18 education . do the hon . Lady agree that we should encourage the Government to make sure that , while put on only suitable level - 3 qualification , not placeholder qualification , we should bear in mind the minority who might need a different type of qualification between a - level and t - level in their 16 to 18 education ? if I have understand the hon . Lady ' s point correctly , she and I be in agreement that there need to be something in between t - level and a - level for student who may not be able to cope with either of those . so I believe there be agreement on both side of the House that we need to slow this process down , allow the t - level to bed in and prove that they be the right thing , and continue to fund the btec as an option for those who might not be able to cope with a t - level or an a - level . let I finish my point on the childcare qualification by say that I do not think parent will thank the Chancellor for provide more free childcare hour if their local nursery have to shut due to a lack of qualified staff . this policy will only exacerbate that . college be also deal with the fallout from the reclassification by the ONS of college as central Government institution . that amount to a near absolute ban on college borrow from bank , make they solely reliant on Government grant . the Government have promise another £ 150 million in capital spending to ease the blow , but we be yet again in a situation where college be ask to deliver the same value - for - money objective as school , with few of the financial perk . college that do not convert into 16 to 19 academy be consistently tell that their unique status mean that they should have to pay vat on the good and service they buy . they be now back in the same boat as school , so will the Treasury extend to they the VAT relief that school receive ? that be only fair . the Department should also guarantee a college ' s pension contribution if a college be to close , which would also cut its pension contribution . finally , on adult education , the Government ' s flagship lifelong learn entitlement be at least a step forward in improve access to lifelong learning . however , the Government have still not make a compelling case that a student finance system design for undergraduate will be an attractive way for old people to finance their education . the Government will be ask mature student , many of whom will have mortgage or family responsibility , to be repay their student loan well into their retirement . the Department ' s short course trial , which be mean to prove that there be a demand for student loan for individual module , have hand out a mere 37 loan in the past year . as I say on Second Reading of the Lifelong Learning ( high Education Fee Limits ) Bill , I do not believe that show a lack of demand for lifelong learning , but it may show a lack of interest from the public in this mechanism for finance it . that be why the commission on lifelong learning set up by my predecessor as the MP for Twickenham , Vince Cable , recognise that grant funding would have to be part of the mix of fund adult education . liberal Democrats have build on its proposal to create a skill wallet , give every adult up to £ 10 , 000 over their work life to spend on education and retraining . it can be partly match - fund by employer , local authority and other organisation . I want to finish by pay tribute to my local college , Richmond upon Thames College , which do a fantastic job , in challenge circumstance , in serve student from not just across the London Borough of Richmond but right across London , with many from very disadvantaged background . I also wish to reiterate that the liberal Democrats believe that education be an investment in our child ' s and young people ' s future potential and our country ' s future growth . that vision be embody by our college , which provide learner of all age with the skill , confidence and resilience they need to flourish . it be high time we value they properly , by extend the pupil premium , protect student choice and foster a culture of lifelong learning . that be what our post - 16 education budget should be deliver . I be pleased to participate in this important estimate debate on post - 16 education , as I be a great advocate and strong supporter of FE college . I be delighted to see the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , in his place . he have always be a champion for this sector and I look forward to hear his response . I pay tribute to my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) for his brilliant speech , to my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , who chair the Education Committee , and to the hon . member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) , who open the debate . we have a really good start to the debate and it have be very constructive . in an age when we need to upskill our workforce , teach new skill to meet the challenge of the 21st century and develop staff , I believe college be a vital part of any Government ' s plan for our economy and our future . we know our country have skill and labour shortage , as well as worker whose skill be out of date . we also have many working - age people who be not in employment . we need a constructive discussion and debate on the way forward , such as the one we be have this afternoon . the debate have not be partisan , but constructive and sensible , look at the interest of our economy and our country . the challenge for this Government , and any Government , and for business , organisation and community be enormous . I have the privilege , opportunity and pleasure of work in the FE sector at Bexley College between 1997 and 2005 , when I be out of Parliament . Bexley College be then under the dynamic leadership of the principal , Dr Jim Healy , who be forward look , innovative and heavily involved with the local community and local business . many college at that time be not as involve in the community and business as they should have be , but Dr Healy make sure that Bexley College be involve . the college have now merge with other and be part of the London South East Colleges Group , which be progressive and forward look under the great leadership of the principal , Dr Sam Parrett CBE . she have transform the college to meet the challenge and opportunity of our area , but I be afraid she be restrain by the funding issue we have hear about from member across the Chamber . I be privileged to teach and to serve . I teach course to woman returner , the unemployed , business group , young student and many people who want to upskill , advance their career and job , or change career direction . I see at first hand what an fe college can really do and what it can achieve for individual , community and business . I regularly visit and support the London South East College ' s Erith campus . it offer an exciting and wide range of educational opportunity at different level , include business and finance , computing , education and teacher training , health and social care , medium , nursing , build development and many other course . I believe in lifelong learning . we all spend our life learn new skill and develop new opportunity . I always tell my grandchild that when I leave Parliament in 1997 — not by choice , I have to say , but because of the election — we do not have mobile phone or computer . when I come back in 2005 , it be quite a different world . I be fortunate to be able to learn the skill of how to use a mobile phone and computer at Bexley College , because as a member of staff I receive some training . I strongly welcome the Government ' s Lifelong Learning ( high Education Fee Limits ) Bill , which will increase opportunity to develop skill and knowledge at all stage of people ' s career . I believe fe college be fundamental to the delivery of that . I agree with the Association of Colleges , which report that the UK face a range of challenge that will require worker to upskill or retrain . as we have hear , college play a vital role develop the skill require in the future and address long - term productivity problem , which we in this country be suffer from . the CBI report that nine in 10 people will need to reskill , in large or small measure , by 2030 . every year there be significant change in our economy and society require worker to gain new skill , so that they can not only add to their own career development but contribute to their community and the economy . we must not always be too negative . the only criticism I have of the debate be that we have not be as positive as we should have be about some of the thing that the Government have be do . they invest £ 1 . 34 billion in education and skill training for adult through the adult education budget in the 2022 - 23 academic year . the AEB fund skill provision up to level 3 for eligible adult age 19 and over , to help they gain the skill they need for work . the Government be also invest £ 1 . 5 billion to upgrade the estate of FE college . I know that that be not enough , and that we would all like more , but I be afraid that be the world in which we live at this time . Leyland love engineer . it have be famous for make truck for hundred of year . as my right hon . friend mention , the Government have be invest to help these legacy skill work for the 21st century . we have £ 3 million for a new Buttermere building at Runshaw College in Leyland for engineering , civil engineering and design t - level . do he agree that the future be bright as these skillset hit the workforce ? my hon . friend make a very good point . I welcome what she have tell we : it be an exciting time . we be in an era of change and we should glory in that . she have raise an example of a college development in an area of the country that be look to the future . the Government have invest £ 286 million of capital funding in the financial year 2023 - 24 and 2024 - 25 . I realise that we would all like much more per - student spending , but for 16 to 18 education , it be set to rise by 9 % in real term by 2024 - 25 . in 2021 , the Government allocate an extra £ 900 million in funding for adult education and apprenticeship . that be something else in which we should glory . we be create more and more apprenticeship . we all know that our excellent Secretary of State for Education take an apprenticeship rather than go to university to start with , and then she subsequently go — and what a success she have be , and what a great job she and the Education team be do ! the Government ' s extra investment will boost college ' capacity to train and upskill more and more student and improve facility . it be not just the student that we have to think about , but the facility , as my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) mention . of course , more need to be do . I welcome what the Government be do , but an increase in funding be necessary . perhaps a three - year funding package be the answer , because that would help college and institution to develop and know how much money they have to play with in the next couple of year . one - year funding be always difficult . we all know that from our own personal budget . if we know what we be go to get , thing would be so much easy . recruitment and retention of FE lecturer remain a major challenge . college such as our college in south - east London be dependent on skilled tradespeople and industry expert to teach their course , but the salary be not good enough to attract people in to do this work . the Institute for Fiscal Studies report that 25 % of college lecturer leave the profession after one year , compare with 15 % of schoolteacher . I know that 15 % of schoolteacher be too many , because we need good schoolteacher . we have good schoolteacher , but we must retain they . however , 25 % in the college sector be a huge number , which be such a disappointment . the fact be that replace they be a big issue ; they be talented people . we have hear that teacher earn much more than college lecturer . that can not be right if we be look at invest in young people and not - so - young people to develop their career and be of real value to our economy . how can it be right that we do not offer a decent salary that be commensurate with what people can earn in a school ? we have hear the figure . there be an £ 8 , 000 difference between schoolteacher and the average college lecturer , but college lecturer be also specialist . they be specialist in the field that we need — real life specialist . they be specialist in industry , in commerce and in veterinary skill , and we need those people who have practical experience to be able to enthuse our young people post 16 . Dr Parrett from my college say : " staff pay be constrain college from deliver both on government priority ( include T Levels , Higher Technical Qualifications and apprenticeship ) and from meet employer need and learner demand . " those be key point that we should take on board . of course our south - east London college have be impact by the lack of investment in further education and the current FE workforce crisis . I have highlight the fact that we be lose staff and that we need talented people , with experience outside academia in the practical skill that we want people to deliver and learn . I will not repeat the list of want from the Association of Colleges , although there be a couple that we have hear repeat across the Chamber . reclaim VAT seem to be an essential part of what we be look for , as well as increase the price . everything be go up and yet college ' funding rate be not go up in line with inflation . that be a huge disadvantage if we want to encourage college to be innovative and to develop as fast as they can to meet the challenge of our economy and our society . my right hon . friend the Minister , who have be a friend of mine for a long time and have always talk sense on education — on high and further education — need to be support . we be try to do that , and to encourage he to ask the Treasury to look at the very important point that we have all raise this afternoon . further education college work superbly and effectively in the community and make a huge difference . mine cover the borough of Bexley , Bromley and Greenwich , and it be pivotal to the success of south - east London that we have college train the workforce that we need in those area . my right hon . friend be make a passionate speech from his personal and professional perspective , have work in the fe sector . on the equality of opportunity for our young people that FE college provide , we ask our young people to be in training or education until they be 18 , but local authority be not mandate to provide transport . in my constituency , I have have to campaign and put pressure on the local council to free up half a million pound to provide bursary for young people to get to their next stage of training . do he agree that we should mandate local authority to use central Government money to allow our young people to take their life decision and go on to their next stage of training , as we be ask they to do ? my hon . friend make a good point . that be something that college and local authority should look at , because it be important that we should not restrict choice , but increase opportunity . the way to do that be to ensure that people can get to the college , that they can take the course and that there be the staff there to teach they . it be a joint effort . my right hon . friend be make an excellent speech on the need for more funding and appropriate resource for the sector . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for " leave behind " neighbourhood , and one thing that have be raise in respect of long - term education be not necessarily get the student to the college , but the college do a bit more outreach , include by go to parish hall and other good , secure place . in Sedgefield , as in many constituency , the local infrastructure for bus , train and so on be particularly poor . we need to make this a push - and - pull equation to enable people to study . when I be lecture we do go to various hall and other place , so we be in the community rather than make the community come to the college . that be very important . I will close by say that I hope my right hon . friend the Minister will take on board the constructive comment we have all make this afternoon . my concern have be highlight , but we want to see a thriving FE college sector , and the Government ' s endeavour to reskill our workforce will only be successful if we use the college as one of the foundation of that . I thank the alliance between Wirral and Worcester for forge this debate . I must warn my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) that she be now link up with the militant trade unionist ; in the debate we have on BBC local radio station , the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) be strongly in support of the industrial action by the National Union of Journalists , so , give some of the attitude at the moment , I just want to express some caution . I say these thing but then I realise that Hansard have no irony , so I need to point out that that be irony . these estimate debate be useful in different way . as we have hear , they enable individual mp to come from their constituency and report their own experience of what be happen , and that feed into a general understanding of what be happen in the field overall . however — I take this point from the right hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Sir David Evennett ) — there be another role for such debate : where there be a recalcitrant Minister , they enable we to hold that Minister ' s foot to the flame , and where we have a co - operative Minister , as we do here , as the right hon . Gentleman say , they give we the opportunity to strengthen that Minister ' s negotiation with the Treasury . there will be a King ' s Speech in the autumn , an autumn financial statement in the normal way , and a Budget next year . if we be honest with ourselves , the reality be that that will be a pre - election Budget . the Chancellor have an element of headroom to create , if not a Budget that will create an economic boom , then one that will spend more money to attempt to create a feel - good factor before the general election . every government do it , so we have to recognise that . there be a real window of opportunity for we to strengthen the Minister ' s hand in those negotiation with the Treasury , and to reap quite rich reward for — in the discussion of wide economic issue — relatively small sum that could have such an impact . we all come from our different experience , as we have hear . I drop out of education and be then a production worker for many year . I go to Burnley FE college and do my a - level , and then I come down to do university degree , include a master ' s degree and so on . that give I an understanding of what a liberating experience education be . it also change life chance , and that be what it do for I . I have be campaign for a number of year to establish a national education service build , like the NHS , on the principle that it should be free from cradle to grave — from the early year through to school , college , university and lifelong learning . that be my ambition . we be nowhere near that at the moment , but I think there be still potential for it . we can not go on in the way we be at the moment . that be why I want to do everything I can to support the Minister in those negotiation with the Treasury , and to arm he with the argument that we have hear today about the scale of investment that we need . I do not want to run through too many stat , and I will be very brief , but the reality be — we have to admit it — that education spending be below the OECD average . we be the 19th high spender out of the 37 OECD member . I look at the House of Commons Library figure , as other have do . they show that education fall as a percentage of gdp in every year from 2011 - 12 to 2018 - 19 . that be the long continuous decline in investment in education that we have see . outside this House today be thousand of teacher — National Education Union member — demonstrate and marching . I join they . they be protest about pay , but — this be why I commend they — it be also about ensure that there be proper funding for education overall . it be a twin demand on their part : their dispute be about pay but , as importantly , it be also about ensure that education be properly fund . owe to my interest in FE , naturally I want to advocate for FE . my hon . friend the Members for Wirral West and for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) refer to the IFS figure , include the £ 6 , 800 spending per 16 to 18 student , which be low than spend per pupil in secondary school . I think one of my hon . friend make the point about college and sixth form funding be only 11 % or 12 % great than that of primary school , have be two time great in the early 1990 . I will drill down a bit far into the figure . total spending on adult skill — for those aged 19 - plus — be set to increase by 22 % between 2019 - 20 and 2024 - 25 , and I welcome that , but the Minister should be say to the Treasury , " that reverse only a fraction of past cut . " total spending on adult skill in 2024 - 25 will still be 22 % below 2009 - 10 level . the Treasury must listen to this argument if we be go to have — as other have say — the skilled workforce that we desperately need in a 21st century economy . the IFS state : " spend on classroom - base adult education have fall especially sharply , and will still be 40 % below 2009 - 10 level even with the additional funding . " the argument be irrefutable and I hope that the Minister do steam in , with cross - party backing for increase investment overall . as the Library briefing mention , the IFS also state : " spend on adult education be nearly two - third lower in real term than in 2003 - 04 and about 50 % low than in 2009 - 10 . this fall be mainly drive by the removal of public funding from some course and " — as my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston say — " a resultant drop in learner number " overall . the Library state : " since 2011 / 12 , the number of learner on classroom - base education and training have fall by 42 % " , and " community learning " — let we think about that in a diverse community such as mine — have drop " by 55 % " . the National Audit Office report publish in September 2020 detail how " the financial health of the college sector remain fragile " , as we have hear today . this be not only about funding constraint ; it be about uncertainty relate to the resourcing to meet future challenge . pay be mention by the right hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford . the IFS warn — exactly as he say — that below - inflation pay settlement for college staff mean that the level of pay be not a fair reward for the skill of those educator , and that that exacerbate " recruitment and retention difficulty " in college . the problem be everywhere — this be national . there be not a college without problem in recruiting , and that be happen because the qualified educator that we need literally can not afford to work in the college , because it do not sustain they . do my right hon . friend agree that the recruitment problem in further education be see not only in all the vacancy , but in the fact that further education college be not even run a huge number of course ? they say , " we know that we win ' t be able to find the lecturer and we can ' t run this profitably , so we ' re no long go to put the course on . " there be therefore not a vacancy there , but a denial of opportunity to young student . I do not want to keep quote the right hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford , because it become embarrassing after a bit , but that be exactly his point , and I think my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston say this , too . without those staff , college will simply withdraw the course because they can not get the qualified staff . that relate to investment , as well as to pay . one point that have be raise with I in my discussion with educator be that this also relate to the condition of employment and to its precarious nature . if investment be not guarantee for those course , we get into a situation where some staff be on temporary contract , and that can not be right for the sector . we be deal with people who have spend large part of their life gain the qualification that enable they to pass on that education to other . do the right hon . Member not agree that the reason that people may make other choice , include , perhaps to go back into industry , be that we have a shortage of skilled people to go into those job , and that employer be pay a lot more than they use to to secure these kind of people ? that be a really good point , and I think that be right : we have to pay the going rate . at the moment , the go rate be not be pay in college , because the college do not have the funding that they need to do that . we will be catch in that vicious circle unless we ensure that there be adequate , decent pay within the sector . apprenticeship have be mention . in real term , the figure for 2021 - 22 show that the level of apprenticeship funding be 11 % below the peak in 2009 - 2010 . I can not be on my foot without mention university funding , I be afraid , because it be one of the thing that I have be lobby on extensively . to be frank , the state have all but withdraw from fund university education . government funding for university teaching be now 70 % below what it be a decade ago , and if we compare our spending on tertiary education with other advanced country , we see that we be now bottom of the league . it be shocking : we put in less public investment than every single one of the other 38 OECD country . to cite some figure , government spending on tertiary education in the UK be equivalent to just 0 . 5 % of gdp . in France , that figure be 1 . 1 % ; in Germany , it be just over 1 % ; and in the US , it be 0 . 9 % . the average across the G20 country be 0 . 9 % . we be fall behind in this key sector because of that lack of investment . I want to make another point that have be make to I continuously : the one area of funding in UK high education that do not seem to have dry up be the pay of university vice - chancellor . every single vice - chancellor of a Russell Group university be pay more than the Prime Minister . in 2021 - 22 , the vice - chancellor of Imperial College London receive £ 714 , 000 . that can not be right , and it build resentment when we have low pay and a casualised workforce elsewhere — to be frank , that differentiation be just abusive . at the moment , we be in a dispute in London regard the low pay of security guard and other facility staff at university , simply to get they pay a living wage . that can not be right . there be other issue I would raise , but I do not want to delay the House . we have have an excellent debate today about the future of our economy and the skill that we need , but to achieve those skill , we need investment in the education itself . we have hear about capital investment , and I be pleased by some of the additional investment , despite the huge backlog . however , if we be go to deliver on that aim , the key ingredient be the staff . unless we get the investment to ensure that we recruit the appropriate staff with the right qualification — and not just recruit they , but retain they — we will not achieve what we want to achieve in term of develop a 21st - century economy , particularly with the challenge of artificial intelligence , new technology , and everything involve in the fourth industrial revolution . I say to the Minister that whatever support he need in those negotiation with the Treasury , he have get it on a cross - party basis . let we make this one of the key issue for the autumn statement and next year ' s Budget . if there be anything we can do to help he , either publicly or privately , please let we know . I congratulate the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) on his contribution to the amazing revolution in apprenticeship that have take place under consecutive conservative government since 2010 . that ambition have really come to fruition , and the number and variety of different opportunity for young people be amazing . it be a shame that Opposition member do not recognise that , because the ambition of conservative Governments have be far great than that of the opposition party . since become an MP in 2010 , my experience have be to have an apprentice every year from one of the school in my constituency . I be now on apprentice 14 ; they have all be fantastic , and almost all of they be now work for colleague across the green Benches here in Parliament , or as special adviser for Ministers . if any member who be in the Chamber or be listen on their television be interested in a parliamentary apprenticeship , I really recommend it . it be a fantastic opportunity for a school leaver in your area — fantastic for they , and fantastic for you as the Member of Parliament . as I say , it have be a real career path for many of those apprentice . however , what I really want to talk about today — just very briefly — be the early year workforce . as my right hon . friend the Minister know , for many year , I have champion give every baby the good start for life . with the huge support of both this Prime Minister and previous Prime Ministers , we have be successful in roll out the family hub and the good start for life vision across England , and we be now well into the implementation phase . as part of that , the family hub and good start for life programme be provide £ 10 million for pilot of a multidisciplinary early year workforce . we know — and I think there be cross - party agreement about this fact — that we need to put far more support into give every baby the good start for life . family — from pregnant people all the way through to new parent and carer of baby and toddler , and right up to school level — have to come to term with this new arrival in their life , with all the challenge that bring . they have to try to find their way around antenatal class , mental health concern , parent - infant relationship problem , breastfeed and infant feeding . there be all the challenge they have with find childcare and get back to work , and all the decision they have to make about whether to go for a nursery or a childminder , and so on . we have a shortage of health visitor and midwife be under pressure , but in the early year space there be actually so many people who would love to get more involved and have a real career path in the early year workforce . we see so many fantastic volunteer , who work on a voluntary basis for home - Start , grandparent drop - in group , or stay and play group . there be the people work in the charity sector as community champion , who bring people into family hub to help they find their way around early year service , and act as navigator to advise people struggle with mental health , smoking cessation , debt advice , couple counselling and all the myriad problem that face new parent in our country . as we embark on the roll - out of the family hub and start for life programme , it seem to I that there be a lot more we could do to upskill the early year workforce for people who be currently volunteer . indeed , people who be currently pregnant may be think , " well , do you know what , I use to work in Tesco , but now as a new mum I ' d actually quite like to go and work in a nursery , and perhaps have my baby in that nursery and be able to work with my baby alongside I , or I ' d like to go and work in a family hub and I ' d like to be a mental health first aider or a breastfeed adviser . " some of those role do exist , but in large part they do not . I really do think this be a subject whose time have come . I know the opposition be also very keen to see much more support provide to help family give their baby the good start for life . so I urge my right hon . friend the Minister to look very carefully at what role there be and what sort of career path there be for people want to get much more involve in the early year space , and to look at how Government can support their ambition to see every baby get the good start , while also upskille the crucial early year workforce . I understand that there be some 300 , 000 people work in the early year space right now . with our change in childcare allowance and provision for family , which be absolutely the right thing to do , there will be the need for many more nursery worker and people associate with the care of young child , include childminder or those give kinship care . upskille and provide those people with the right resource and qualification they need be go to be a very big priority in the immediate future and in the long term . I also believe it will give many young people a really satisfy career path for the future . for childcare , as for many sector , this be obviously about attract other people into the sector . I sometimes think we could get the vocabulary well when we be try to go out and reach people , and instead of talk about basic skill , we could talk about essential skill and just be upselle the whole thing . these skill can be thing such as resilience or teamwork , and these be the area that people who have be at home and who have not get out much into the community would really value , and they would feel well if they be go into a different type of employment . I think this apply to the childcare sector as well as to many other . I completely agree with my hon . friend that the prestige of work in early year , and indeed childcare , have sometimes not be what it should be . in any society , our baby be the future — quite literally — and everything we can do to help they to get the good start be absolutely essential . often , the role be see as fairly lowly , but try to steer , nurture and empathise with tiny child and to help they learn to play nicely , pay attention , come when they be call and perhaps start read be among the most crucial role . the same be true of support family , who often struggle . you do not have to be a special person to become a parent , but when you do become one , you be a special person to your baby . parent be often cry out for a bit of help because they feel jittery , they do not feel confident or they do not have at their fingertip the information they need . there be so much that we can do , and our skill revolution really should focus on create value , proper career path and a proper ambition to have a career in the early year workforce . I therefore hope that my right hon . friend the Minister will look closely at the early year workforce pilot that be start in the very near future . I have work in the further education sector for 22 year — I hear the Minister ' s inner voice say , " no ! surely that mean my hon . friend start teach in FE when she be still at primary school , " but unfortunately that be not the case — so I have a lot of experience of the absolutely glorious thing that further education can do , but I have also see it wart and all . People seem to forget that the further education sector , alongside school , interact with more member of the public than any other sector . adult education , community education , 16 to 19 , apprenticeship and high education be all provide for within the further education sector . even when I be learn to be a lecturer and do teacher train all those year ago , the sector be call the Cinderella sector . it have always be acknowledge that it have do a lot of the heavy lifting from an educational perspective , but it have rarely be give the same funding as school and , in particular , university . the university sector do a wonderful job , but a university lecturer will generally deliver about half as many hour of actual contact time in a year as a further education lecturer . the team do a fantastic and very varied job , but I have hear a lot about how we need more funding , and of course every sector will always ask for more funding . I be pleased the Department for Education be increase funding into all the sector mention , but we do have a particular issue , as many member of the House have say , about how much salary we be able to pay people come into teaching , or take part in teaching , and to technician , assistant or whatever it might be in the further education sector . we might want to attract engineering lecturer , for instance , but someone would have to be crazy , or have a private income that mean they could just work as a hobby , to even look at do an engineering teaching job if it do not start at £ 55 , 000 a year at least . that be because they could go and work anywhere else and start at that salary or a lot more . that be a perennial problem in the industry , and I would like the Government to look at it . I understand that the issue really be challenge in the current climate , but if we do not start to look at it , we will end up with an ever - increase problem . we already have skill shortage , ergo , in five , 10 , 15 or 20 year ' time , not only will even few people want to go into further education but even few will have the skill and industry experience to do so . as a country , we really have to take this issue seriously in order to see where we be go . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , as I know she would give her experience in the sector . we see this particular challenge in engineering , math and physics . do she agree that the Prime Minister ' s aspiration of get everyone do math until 18 be exciting in that context , but that it require support the workforce in our FE college to deliver it ? we need that breadth of teaching of mathematic , alongside other key skill . I thank my hon . friend for his expertise , and he be absolutely right . however , many student when I be teach struggle with their math gcse . they struggle with their basic skill and functional skill in numeracy . there be still a fairy tale , seemingly , that if someone have study mathematic for 11 year in school and fail their GCSE , magically the further education sector — everybody seem to think it can do everything magically and often it do — in less than one year can produce a grade c or above , or a grade 4 or 5 and above , as the grade be now . there be this idea that someone who have fail at math , hate math and be scared about it could study for nine month part - time — maybe for one hour a week — in their college and would suddenly and magically have a math gcse . that be not the reality . when I be head of department , all the mathematic we use to teach be apply , and further education have still not be able to do that across the board . that be often because we can not find people who can teach math confidently . certainly we find it difficult to find people who can teach functional skill , numeracy or math that be apply to the industry for which the student be come to study . we have some real problem . for instance , I teach a group of level 2 medium student once . I say to they , " I be give you a tape measure , and I want you to go into the studio . we be go to calculate the square meterage of the studio so that we can do a lighting plan . " the student go off and within a minute they come back . they say , " Lia , we be have a problem here . " I say , " why ? " they say , " because the tape measure be not long enough . " think about that for a moment . those student do not think that perhaps they have to measure it multiple time with one tape measure . those be the basic skill we be talk about . I have to go into the studio and talk about it . that be the level we be at . school be struggle to recruit math teacher . I love the aspiration that everyone can be well at math through to 18 , but I always have the analogy of say , " if you do not feel you be good at math , equate that to something that you really don ' t like " , because a lot of people have a fear of math , or have be tell over year , " you be not good enough at it " , so it become a self - fulfil prophecy . I say to people , " do you like horse ? " they say , " no , I ' m scared of horse . " I say , " okay , so you ' re scared of horse and horse - riding . you ' ve never want to do it , or when you ' ve try it , you ' ve hate it , or you ' ve fall off or you ' ve never dare to get on . tomorrow , I will make you go to a horse and get on it . you be go to have to ride it for an hour every week for nine month , but boy , you will be an olympic showjumper by the end of it . " we need to think about how we will do these thing , because we know as a country that we be a potential powerhouse in so many area , but we have to think with common sense about how we will overcome some of the difficulty that we have . my hon . friend be make an excellent point , because Britain be an outlier in not do math to 18 . other country must be able to do it , so we should look around the world to see how they be achieve it . we need to go from primary school straight up to the age of 18 and work out a proper syllabus that everyone can access . my hon . friend be absolutely right . as we have be able to do with phonic and literacy - base subject , where we have move ahead quickly , we need that thinking from primary school age and all the way up . as wonderful as further education be — I know that it be — it can not repair all the structural issue to do with math within that year or two year of study . we all want that to happen , but we have get to think sensibly about how it will happen , because people who be Prime Minister and have be Chancellor find math very easy , but perhaps the rest of we do not . from a further education perspective , Grimsby Institute , where I work for many year , be a fantastic college that work really hard with industry . it be a grade 1 " outstanding " college for many year and be currently grade 2 . I know how hard the staff work and thank Ann Hardy , the chief executive officer , and her team for look at new way of do thing and innovate . I also thank Peter Kennedy and his team at Franklin College , which be our sixth - form college . the week before last , I go to see " the Bridge " , a new facility that it have open to recreate corporate way of work so that its 16 to 19 - year - old and adult learner — and its staff — can work in a corporate , modern environment , prepare they for work . Franklin College have do all its renovation and new build without grant help ; it have do that with really good financial management . that be really worth celebrate and show how outstanding leadership and management can do great thing in the community . I say to the Minister that we know how fantastic further education be , and he know that , but it can not do everything , so we need to start think about how we can do thing more creatively and more flexibly . as my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) mention , we know that many college go out and deliver in the community . many year ago , Grimsby Institute work on blended learning , make sure that there be online provision and that it be go out in the community . we need to think differently in the environment we find ourselves in , with more vacancy than people available for the work , skill mismatch and a lack of skill in area that we need to move forward . absolutely , apprenticeship can be the answer , but , with respect , they may be a little too complicated at the moment , and standard can often restrain our ambition . we know that we need standard , but my concern be that while large company can become involve with apprenticeship , what about our sole trader and small and medium - sized enterprise ? they really be the lifeblood of our business and industry , but it be a real challenge for they to take on apprentice with that right support . we do need to look at that . I have concern about some area of t - level . the aspiration for high quality be good , but while T - level come out of the Sainsbury review of 2016 , which be look at parity between vocational and academic route , I do not believe that they have parity with a - level . that be not because people might think , " academic be well . " no , actually t - level be perhaps more demanding than A - level in many way . when an " academic student " go to study a - level , they can choose two , three or four subject , plus work experience , a work placement or employment , so when they have finish their a - level , they can go to university , get an apprenticeship or go and work — they have all those option at hand . however , for t - level , similar to national diploma , student have to decide , for example , that they want to work in the health and social care industry , and have to study that with an employer . but what happen at the end if they discover that it be not what they want to do , or they feel that they be well at something else ? if t - level or something similar be small and modular , with a similar amount of guide learning hour to a - level , a vocational student could do health and social care , travel and tourism , and digital medium , and they could go and do some work experience as well . they could still build a t - level , but it would be multifacete and very enjoyable . it would give vocational student much more choice about where they go from there , rather than just study their health and social care level 3 t - level and that be it . they would then have to spend money later in life to do something else to go into another industry . I would like the Minister and his team to think about something like that . the further education sector have always be the Cinderella of education but , along with school , it be the kingpin to ensure that this country can continue to be a powerhouse in future . I thank everyone in the further education sector , no matter what job they do — whether the clean or all the way through to the chief executive , and everyone in between . I thank they and appreciate their work , and I look forward to see colleague again in the future . I congratulate the hon . member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) and my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) on their effort in secure the debate , and my hon . friend on his work chair the Education Committee , in particular for the publication in April of the Committee ' s report " the future of post - 16 qualification " , which in many respect be the cornerstone of the compelling case for change to the way that post - 16 education be provide in the UK . further education in its many form — whether full - time in college , on day release , in the evening or through an apprenticeship — be the bridge between school and the workplace . it enable people from all background to realise their full potential and achieve their ambition . it be also the mean through which Great Britain plc can operate as an efficient economy , with increase output , improve profitability for business large and small , and high economic growth . further education be the route to remove what be become the 21st century british disease of low productivity . to perform that role , FE and college must be fairly fund and their course properly structure . at present , they be not , although my hon . friend and his Committee have show we how to remove the many obstacle they face . my interest be as an MP serve a coastal constituency where there be exciting opportunity emerge in such sector as renewable energy , sustainable fishing , and maritime and port . East Coast College , with its campus in Lowestoft and Yarmouth , be do great work in prepare people for those exciting career . however , despite significant investment by the college and Government in new facility , such as the Energy Skills Centre in Lowestoft and the Eastern Civil Engineering Construction Campus in Lound , it feel that it be operate with one arm behind its back . the fe sector be face significant challenge . the number of 16 and 17 - year - old be rise rapidly as a result of the population boom move through the education system . many young people have be severely disadvantage by covid and the ensue lose year of learning . college be help to support they , ensure that they catch up and assist they in make the right education decision and career choice . college and sixth form , like everyone else , be face rise cost as a result of rise level of inflation . there be also , as we have hear , a workforce crisis . without further investment , there will be no staff to deliver the skill that our economy so desperately need . it be important to emphasise the vital role that college perform in deliver the economy ' s future skill need . on the East Anglian coast , significant opportunity be emerge in renewable energy , with the transition to a zero - carbon economy . over half of the nation ' s UK offshore wind fleet be anchor off the Suffolk and Norfolk coast . Sizewell C will be one of the large construction project in the world . there be enormous potential for retrofitting , for hydrogen and carbon capture , and for the oil and gas infrastructure , both in the southern North sea and run through East Anglia to serve much of the UK . East Coast College be do great work in training , upskille and provide career advice . the scale of the opportunity be both enormous and exciting , but the college need the revenue and resource to rise to the challenge . it also face a similar dilemma in the NHS and social care sector , where it work closely with the James Paget University Hospital at Gorleston and other care provider in the north - east Suffolk and south - east Norfolk area . the case for investment in college and FE be compelling . despite recent uplift , FE funding compare unfavourably with both the university and school sector . that be confirm by the IFS in its 2022 annual report on education . it highlight both large cut than other area after 2010 and no extra funding announce in the 2022 autumn statement . at a time when we be rightly promote lifelong learning , it be concern that participation in adult education have fall at all qualification level , particularly among those who be bad off . college be face extreme challenge in the recruitment and retention of staff , which be exacerbate by fund rate rise by less than 3 % . further education college be face their bad staffing crisis for two decade and they be increasingly constrain from deliver much - need course as the pay they be able to offer their staff be way below that which they can earn in industry and in school . college , I be afraid , be lose staff because they can not match the pay in those other sector . there be an ever - widen pay gap with those industry where skill shortage be at their bad : construction , engineering , digital and care . the college workforce crisis be impact on the Government ' s delivery of key policy priority , include the roll - out of t - level and high technical qualification . this will ultimately result in grow skill gap , impact on our nation ' s productivity , effort to address regional inequality and the transition to a low - carbon economy . this will leave people in poorly pay , insecure work . at East Coast College for over a year there have be vacancy in the engineering , electrical and science teaching team , where there be an urgent need for staff and new recruit . this mean the college have have to restrict teaching where business urgently need staff , such as for plumbing and electrician apprentice . the college have also be unable to recruit civil engineering teacher for t - level . those vacancy be put enormous pressure on exist staff who in turn , as matter stand , will be look at minimal pay increase , with their wage compare very poorly , as we have hear , with other similar local sector . if the situation be not address , with more funding provide , the crisis will get even bad , and at a time when the FE sector have such a vital role to play . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on further education and lifelong learning , whose secretariat be provide by the Association of Colleges . it have a straightforward five - point plan to address the crisis , which my hon . friend for Worcester set out and which I will re - emphasise . first , the 2023 - 24 funding rate must be raise in line with inflation , in recognition of the fact that price be significantly high than they be when the three - year budget be set in October 2021 . that would cost £ 400 million and be in line with what many of we campaign for ahead of the spring Budget . secondly , as we have hear , there be clear advantage in allow college to reclaim vat . thirdly , we need to ensure that 50 % of the apprenticeship levy be spend on apprentice at level 2 and 3 , below the age of 25 . fourthly , we need to provide a large skill fund to support skill in high - priority area such as low - carbon energy and healthcare , both of which East Coast College have prioritise . finally , the Department for Education should collate evidence on college pay , similar to that which it provide for the School Teachers ' Review Body . I look around and see gap everywhere , not just gap on these Benches , but alarm gap in our economic and education system ; gap that be ever widen — skill gap , pay gap , productivity gap . we must eliminate these gap as quickly as possible . it be clear from today ' s debate that we be unite behind , dare I say it , our champion , my right hon . friend the Minister , in seek to secure the funding that will be the first step that be need in this vitally important work , so that Cinderella really can go to the ball . I thank the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , and the hon . member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) for initiate this useful debate . further education college have a wealth of experience in deliver learning , training and qualification in their local community , and that include the fantastic Loughborough College in my constituency . they have a unique understanding of the skill gap through their relationship with business , industry and other local stakeholder , which enable they to adapt the course they offer to help to skill young people , as well as upskille and reskille worker to meet the need of the local economy in real time and prepare for the challenge of tomorrow . that make they essential to our local community and crucial to economic growth . the country should make much more of , in particular , the flexibility of FE college to tailor the skill and training make available to meet local need , although we have already do that to some extent through the Skills and Post - 16 Education Act 2022 . let I give an example involve Loughborough College . not long ago , a business be think of come to the area , but need a workforce that be skilled in a certain way . I contact the principal of Loughborough College by email , and she come back to I within about 10 minute , have already contact the business and reach an agreement on what they would do . such flexibility and deliverability of that kind be available to the whole town of Loughborough and the local area because of what the FE college can deliver . as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on t - level , I be also immensely proud of the fact that at the heart of Loughborough College be one of the first t - level centre build with town deal funding . the college will have an institute of technology , which it will be build along with Loughborough University , the Derby College Group and Derby University . the Minister , very kindly , officially open the centre , and break ground at the IOT not long ago . all those development have be bring together by a phenomenal staffing team , and an equally phenomenal principal and chief executive , Jo Maher . I have name she because I want to thank she very much : she have do an enormous amount for people in Loughborough , and have achieve a huge amount in a very short space of time . she be move on , but thankfully she be stay in Loughborough to become the university ' s pro vice - chancellor for sport — and it doesn ' t get much well than be in charge of sport at Loughborough University , let ' s put it that way . she have achieve an amazing thing , along with all her staff , the governor and other . it be an amazingly proud moment for the town . the college have everything from t - level engineering to course on health and social care and training for electrician and nursery staff . there be people who be go to make fantastic emergency service worker , prison officer and so on . it be a wonderful draw for the whole region to get those skill into the area . for FE college to continue to deliver much - need skill education , we must ensure that they be place on a sustainable footing by address their historic level of underfunding . despite recent uplift , FE college funding compare unfavourably with funding for university and school . as college spend 67 % of their income on staff , current budget be have a detrimental effect on recruitment . many college be be constrain in their ability to provide training at the level necessary to address skill shortage , because they can not offer salary competitive enough to attract the right people , who can earn far more in industry and even in school . to reinforce that point , the Association of Colleges have inform I that , on average , teacher in school be pay over £ 8 , 000 more than college lecturer , despite many college lecturer be more specialised and bring real - life industry experience to their role . that concern have also be raise with I locally . salary in the private sector be use to attract people with skill and knowledge ; the same should be true in FE college . alongside the issue of additional funding in these area , Loughborough College have highlight to I that despite now be consider essentially to be public body by HM Treasury , college be not able to reclaim vat as the vast majority of public body do . I have be tell that this tax currently use up 3 % of a college ' s income . the money vote for by Parliament for 16 to 19 education in a wide variety of key sector be be tax , which be disproportionately affect those from disadvantaged background , who make up the majority of those attend college . it be compound by the fact that , follow ONS reclassification , an immediate block on commercial borrowing be place on college . that have leave college stick between a rock and a hard place : unable to receive private funding , as they be consider to be a public body , but have to pay vat as if they be a private entity . it be therefore important that due consideration be give to include college in the VAT refund scheme . that simple change would go a long way towards help college to provide the high - quality skill train that our economy need . in these debate , we have hear a lot about parity . do my hon . friend agree that now that there be great flexibility , the Government should look across the education sector and ensure that early year setting , college and other be give parity with school in their treatment for vat purpose ? I absolutely agree . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . fe college such as Loughborough College be our great asset in local community and the good conduit for social mobility . let we reform the sector for the future , so that they have the tool and resource in place to make the difference to the life of their student and to the business where they will go on to work . I want to put it in a positive rather than a negative way : yes , we need to look at the money and look at the vat , but there be such fantastic resource within FE college . it be all there to be have . let we do that , and let we help they . I call the shadow Minister . it be a tremendous pleasure to respond to this excellent debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) and the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) for secure it . they have both announce that they will not return to this place after the next election ; they will both be a tremendous loss , especially give the contribution that they both make to our debate on education and their passion for the subject . I take this opportunity to thank they both for the contribution to the sector that they make in this place . I also congratulate the hon . member for Worcester on his Committee ' s report , which precipitate this debate and have be tremendously welcome . this have be an important debate about an area the Government have consistently underfunde , which have contribute , as the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) say , to the staff and skill crisis that employer raise with member every week of the year . I will reflect on a few of today ' s contribution . my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West speak about the economic benefit of adult education , which help people to engage in education before often move into the world of work . the hon . member for Worcester , refer to adult education be a Cinderella service , say that Cinderella go on to marry a prince , but I remind he that Cinderella be a fairy tale . he be not in the mood to listen to any fairy tale today , speak powerfully about the many measure outline in his report and his disappointment that the Government have not engage more willingly on some of the recommendation on funding cut . we entirely agree that there should be a moratorium on defunde btec , and he make a powerful point on the importance of career guidance in opening opportunity , particularly to people from more deprived community . the hon . member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) speak about an excellent college that I recently have the great pleasure of visit with my colleague Jeevun Sandher . the college ' s responsiveness when the hon . Lady get in touch say everything about the specific role our further education sector play and about the passion of people within the sector for ensure that they be link to the local community , to the local business community and to employer , and for ensure they make a real difference . few area of Government spend more directly explain Britain ' s sluggish growth figure than our failure on skill , on which the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) reflect a moment ago . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) say the savage cut inflict on college and adult education over the past 13 year have have an adverse impact on life chance and on our wide economy . from 2010 to 2019 , the further education budget be cut by a third in real term and adult education funding be cut by almost half , as my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say . the collapse in public funding for our fe sector have have many disastrous consequence . my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) and the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) speak about the fact that college lecturer be now on £ 8 , 000 a year less in real term than their equivalent salary in 2010 . year of pay freeze , redundancy and non - replacement of lecturer have see as much as 80 % of the FE workforce leave . we hear excellent speech from the hon . member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) and the right hon . member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Sir David Evennett ) , who both speak of their experience in the sector . they get out in time not to have the £ 8 , 000 a year pay cut they would have have if they stay . the hon . Lady ' s call for further education salary to be take seriously be powerful . these salary often mean that college can not put on course for which there be demand because they can not recruit people to teach they , as the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Caroline Ansell ) and for Loughborough say . David Hughes of the Association of Colleges have say : " the past 12 year have witness a decimation in funding for education and skill for 16 to 18 - year - old … there be now insufficient place available and those which remain be inadequately fund . " alongside the exodus from the further education profession , there be profound difficulty in find course of real importance to our economy in many area . my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) reflect on the fact that care apprenticeship be no long be offer at Trafford College . the collapse in public funding have be mirror by and have partially cause a reduction in the amount employer be spend on train their workforce . research by the Learning and Work Institute find that employer investment in train their staff be now 28 % low than it be in 2005 . so 13 year into what the Government say be a " revolution " that place employer " at the heart " of our skill system , our employer be spend less on train their staff now than they be 13 year ago and few course be available . the Government seem unable to make the change that they be constantly tell we need . it be not just in the underfunding that our young people , learner and employer have be let down . an incoming Labour Government will offer the reform that many employer and provider have be cry out for . my hon . friend reflect on Labour ' s plan to reform the apprenticeship levy into a growth and skill levy that be more flexible and will allow some of it to be spend on other , more modular course . so many organisation have call for that ; Kate Shoesmith , the deputy chief executive of the Recruitment and Employment Confederation , say at the time of the last Budget : " offer flexible skill training , by reform the Apprenticeship Levy , be long overdue . " as we well as discuss boost apprenticeship , the hon . member for Great Grimsby speak about the difficulty of the bureaucracy that many small and medium - sized enterprise encounter and the fall that we have see in level 2 and 3 apprenticeship . as well as allow employer to utilise their fund to help people back into work , it be important that the Government also get it right on qualification . we hear from the hon . member for Worcester about the Government ' s review of btec , which be tremendously important . the Labour party support t - level , recognise that they be a qualification in evolution . their purpose have change before our eye since they have be in place , but there have be issue with implementation , as the hon . and learn Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) say . the primary role at the centre of that qualification of the passing of a single exam , as oppose to the more modular form of study and assessment available in some of the other advanced general qualification , mean people be miss out on something that have prove transformational for many student . that be why I repeat that Labour will pause the disastrous approach the Government be hellbent on pursuing of defunde level 3 course . it be worth recall the role that the dysfunction at the heart of the Government have play in the approach they be take . the right hon . member for Chichester ( Gillian Keegan ) be the Skills Minister who set England on the path to an all t - level world . she then disappear into other Departments , while the right hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Nadhim Zahawi ) head up a consultation on the Government ' s approach , where a staggering 86 % of respondent — skill professional , employer , learner and their family — be oppose to their plan . that 86 % be not a small minority — it be the kind of overwhelming response that we normally see only on a liberal Democrat " Focus " leaflet . when the Government say that 86 % of people be oppose to their plan , that need to be take seriously . the right hon . Gentleman do all he could do and announce that the Government would be remove only a small number of course , and the sector breathe a huge sigh of relief . he be then promote and we have the two - day reign of the right hon . member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) . she be follow by the right hon . member for Braintree ( James Cleverly ) , who be then follow by the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . finally , exhausted DFE official provide briefing to their sixth Secretary of State in just over a year , the right hon . member for Chichester , who return as Secretary of State for Education . whether the outcome of the original level 3 consultation have go miss somewhere between brief Secretary of State no . 3 and brief Secretary of State no . 6 , I do not know , but what we do know be that , Bobby Ewing - like , the previous year have not happen and suddenly we be back to the disastrous approach that 86 % of consultee have warn the Government against . we believe there be a real need for skill policy to be align with regional economic policy and to be evidence base . unlike the current Government , we will ensure a join - up approach , with a new body , Skills England , to co - ordinate the framework . for too long this short - sighted approach have hold back the ambition of our people and our economy , but we all hope those day be nearly behind we . finally , this exhausted Government can be put out of their misery and the conservative party can have a period of quiet — or maybe not so quiet — reflection , during which it can consider what kind of a party it wish to be . and then it will be time for a Labour Government that recognise the importance of a join - up skill system , encourage employer to invest in their staff , ease the bureaucratic burden that shut small and medium - sized enterprise out of apprenticeship and ensure that money allocate for skill be actually spend on skill . a Labour Government will see that make the good use of all of our talent be the way to grow our economy and repair our society , and will see FE college lecturer , schoolteacher and local adult education provider as key contributor to our economic plan . yes , the Labour Government will inherit a rancid economic picture , but they will have the plan need to return our nation to growth , with school , college , university , devolve decision maker and employer work in tandem . that government be come , and they can not come a moment too soon . I be pleased to respond to the debate . when my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , the former Schools Minister and now the Chair of the Education Committee , say that he have apply for the debate , I welcome it because I want a good debate on further education . despite the kind word of the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , I do not know if he be quite the secret weapon I would take with I when I have negotiation with the Treasury , but his point be well make . I hear a lot of rhetoric from the shadow spokesperson , the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) . warm word butter no parsnip . last year , FE Week report that : " labour can not commit to boost fe funding level " . the article go on to say that speak to FE Week , the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) " say the economic landscape have change significantly and could not pledge any uplift in cash for further education or address the disparity between FE and high education funding until the economic outlook be clear . " so despite what the hon . member for Chesterfield say , the opposition be not guarantee any uplift in further education funding . I thank the hon . member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) for open the debate . she be passionate about adult education ; I be with she and I understand the absolute importance of community learn . I have see that in my own constituency and I champion it in the Department . I will say more about adult and community learn later in my remark , but look at all the programme together — the skill boot camp , the level 3 offer , Multiply and adult apprenticeship — we be spend well over £ 3 billion . my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) as well as the hon . member for Wirral West raise the issue of community learning , which have actually increase over the past year . if we look at the key focus , we will see that , in the 2021 - 22 academic year , 304 , 000 learner participate in a community learn course , compare with 243 , 000 in the 2020 - 21 academic year . that be an increase of 24 . 9 % . I have other figure that I could quote , but that do not mean that everything in the garden be rosy . we be do a lot of work to try to support adult and tailor learning , which I will go on to discuss a bit later in my speech . I be experience a bit of d é j à vu here . this time last year , I believe that I be the Chair of the Education Committee lead the estimate debate , and my hon . friend the Member for Worcester be answer it . what we say here be , I think , touch é . what I would say to he be that , absolutely , he have make a valid case for funding for further education , as have many other member . I will go on to talk about that a bit later in my remark . I also think that it be important that we do not paint just a partial picture . we should look at the 10 % uplift in t - level funding , the £ 300 million that we be spend on institutes of technology , the £ 115 million spending on high technical qualification , which be now be teach in more than 70 institution , the £ 2 . 7 billion that we will be spend on apprenticeship by 2025 , the up to £ 500 million that be be spend on Multiply , and the many million of pound be spend on boot camp . billion and billion of pound be be spend on skill , which be absolutely right . [ Official Report , 17 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 11mc . ] it be right , too , to make the case for ever more resource — I always champion more resource — but it be important to paint the whole picture , not just a partial one . there be many good thing happen , and it be fair to acknowledge that . the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) raise the issue of btec , as do my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee . he be resolute on this , so I will be quite resolute in return . btec have already be delay . they have already be review , and be be review . there will be a significant number of btec that remain . we have specifically introduce the t - level transition year , the whole purpose of which be to prepare those student for t - level , because , as be rightly say by my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) , T - level be hard . but there be now a t - level transition year , and more than 60 institution be teach it , and there will be another 70 along the way to prepare student . importantly , we be remove some btec and other qualification that have low uptake or poor progression . the hon . member for Twickenham mention the tourism qualification . I shall write to she with the detail and the figure . I shall also come on to childcare in a bit because of the brilliant speech by my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) . as I be say , though , we be remove t - level that have low uptake or not great progression , or that significantly overlap with other t - level . the whole purpose of this be that we have create employer - lead qualification through our apprenticeship reform . the t - level and the high technical qualification be all employer - design with the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ; I be proud to legislate for they in my last stint in this role . employer will be able to develop new qualification . for example , if they want to , they could develop a new tourism qualification . there be another important issue , which have come up time and again . I have say that some btec will remain . I recognise that disadvantaged student be do some of these btec , but we go down a very dangerous road if we say that we want to keep some qualification because disadvantaged student do they , and the other one , the middle class and everybody else can do . that be a dangerous road , because I do not want to have two - tier qualification : some for the disadvantaged and other for the middle class and the well - off . what I want , and what I have devote my whole parliamentary life to , be to develop state of the art , world - beat vocational and technical qualification that be as good as , if not well than , a - level . that be what be important . that be how I would respond , politely but robustly , to my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee . that be a very interesting comment on the people who be do btec at the moment . we be tell by several people that t - level have a very high entry requirement . can my right hon . friend confirm that that be no long the case ? the other point we hear in our inquiry be that 20 % be drop out of t - level . what will they be do if they be not able to carry on with t - level ? first , as I say , a significant number of btec remain and will remain . there be new qualification that can be develop so that those who do not pass will be able to do some other qualification at level 3 , or they may want to do a level 2 or level 3 apprenticeship instead . there will be option for those people , but we could make the same argument about those people who fail a - level . we should not just have one rule for t - level and another rule for those do a - level . I will come on to funding , because every hon . Member have raise that . the hon . member for Sheffield , Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) talk about it , and I be pleased that she have have more £ 7 million invest in Sheffield City College . my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) be thoughtful as always ; we have talk a lot about skill over the year and I reiterate that we be champion quality qualification , which will address the skill deficit , and introduce lifelong learning through the lifelong loan entitlement . the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) again talk about funding ; I will come on to that , and I be happy to write to he about the specific issue that he raise regard Trafford College . I be pleased to meet my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) and the principal of Reaseheath College . land college have be beneficiary of important capital funding and I know the college have receive more than £ 6 . 5 million . I say in that meeting that I would work with my hon . and learn Friend on the issue he have raise and I will continue to do so as much as I possibly can . the hon . member for Twickenham talk about the skill wallet , and we do have a difference here . I have sympathy with many of the thing she say and I genuinely admire she for her knowledge of education and skill , but we look at the skill wallet and , as I understand it , it give every adult £ 10 , 000 to spend on training , but with incremental payment , start with £ 4 , 000 at age 25 , £ 3 , 000 at age 40 and the final £ 3 , 000 at age 55 . that would mean that learner would be constrain by when the funding become available . we want to be fair to student and fair to the taxpayer . our lifelong loan entitlement will be transformative , because everyone will have access to up to £ 37 , 000 that they can take any time up to the age of 60 . there be 12 entry point and they can do short course or module of course . I have nothing but incredible admiration for the way my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire champion early year . I have good news for she , because when I find out she be on the list to speak in this debate , I want to be sure about what we be do on early year skill — as my Department official , who be watch , will know . to let my right hon . friend know what be go on , there be a lot . the first - ever national professional qualification in early year leadership cohort begin in October 2022 and the second cohort commence in February 2023 . the employer trailblazer group have develop level 2 and level 3 apprenticeship , but we now have a level 5 apprenticeship and we fund more than 20 childcare course through our free course for job offer . some 2 , 000 learner start t - level in education and childcare in September 2022 , and there be a load of early year high technical qualification . there be masse go on , so we will have the train workforce that she passionately and rightly talk about , right across that sector . my right hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Sir David Evennett ) have great experience and wisdom . he too talk about funding , and he will know that his college — I think it be the London South East Colleges group — have have £ 24 . 5 million since 2020 . I think the shadow Minister have also have £ 18 million in capital funding for Chesterfield College in his constituency ; again , that be a brilliant investment by the Government that no doubt he will be celebrate to the rafter . I have mention the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington . I appreciate the way in which he say what he do . we have spending constraint , but I will talk more about those in a moment . my hon . friend the Member for Waveney speak powerfully about the skill revolution in his area . my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby make a brilliant speech . there be a lot that I agree with . on the math to 18 issue , I be one of those people who have a fear of math . I pass my math o - level , but it take I three month and a second time around — I be slightly dyspraxic ; it be a nightmare . it be wrong that I be tell that I would never have to do it again . we should have practical numeracy — basic numeracy , times table and so on — and what I call numerical literacy , so that people can read bill and understand budget . that would help those who have difficulty . of course , any math teaching should promote career in mathematic . I think that the Prime Minister be right : we must have math to 18 along the principle that he set out in his speech . I absolutely believe in that . the experience of my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby be clear to see . this be an estimate day debate , so we have to talk about fact and figure . the DFE ' s resource budget be about £ 86 billion — an uplift of more than £ 2 billion since the spending review — and £ 9 billion be directly link to apprenticeship and further education . apprenticeship be a key rung on what I call — colleague have nicely quote it back at I — " the ladder of opportunity " . we redesign the programme in partnership with industry . there be now accredit route to more than 670 occupation , from entry level to expert . government funding for apprenticeship will reach £ 2 . 7 billion by 2024 - 25 , as I have mention , and that money be reach the economy . the hon . member for Twickenham mention the apprenticeship budget . we spend 99 % of the apprenticeship budget , and let we not forget that we send hundred of million to the devolved authority , so the levy be be use . [ Official Report , 17 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 12mc . ] I can give she a raft of quote from business that be supportive of the levy . the opposition quote one or two business here and there that perhaps want it to be a skill levy , but — I have to disagree with the hon . Lady and the shadow Minister — a skill levy would mean no apprentice or a diluted number of apprentice . we be spend billion of pound on skill . I have already give the figure on that . as the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester , mention , the Association of Colleges have call for 50 % of the apprenticeship levy to be spend on apprentice at level 2 and 3 , who be below the age of 25 . under - 25s make up 50 % of start in 2021 - 22 ; 70 % of start be at level 2 and 3 , provide an entry - level springboard into work . contrary to the bad news set out by the shadow spokesman , we have have a 22 % increase in apprenticeship achievement in the academic year — that be what count : achievement . the 90 % who achieve get good job when they finish their apprenticeship . there be 8 . 6 % more start in 2021 - 22 than in 2021 . we be push and encourage more degree apprenticeship . they be a brilliant route up the ladder . we be now put in £ 40 million over the next couple of year — it be £ 8 million previously — to encourage provider to take up more student for degree apprenticeship . my goodness , what a brilliant visit we have to the college in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) . anyone who want an example of t - level success should go to Loughborough College , where state - of - the - art t - level be be teach brilliantly — include healthcare T - level , create a pipeline for future NHS worker — and an institute of technology be be build . it be an honour to lay the groundwork . as I mention , we be spend £ 300 million on 21 institute of technology around the country , of which there be already 12 . they be the Rolls - Royce of further education in collaboration with high education and big and small business , and an example of the Government ' s commitment to skill and of the investment in the skill that we need for the future . sadly , I understand that the principal be leave Loughborough College , but I be sure that the college will find a principal who be just as brilliant as she to take over . I mention the high technical qualification and new and exist level 4 and 5 . we have the t - level . yes , there be delay in some of they , but we want to get they right . we have 164 provider across the country , and 10 , 000 student start t - level in 2022 — that be more than double the 2021 figure . we will roll out t - level in 2024 - 25 so that more young people can benefit from those high - quality qualification . More than 92 % of student achieve a pass . rise — I want to come on to FE funding , but I can not not let the hon . Gentleman in . I be grateful . there be much I would like to come back to the Minister on , but I want to ask specifically about t - level . he mention that 10 , 000 people be start they , and many of the t - level student I have meet have very much enjoy their course . however , at the moment , 230 , 000 student do apply general qualification whereas 10 , 000 be do t - level . in two year ' time , the vast majority of those 230 , 000 student will not have that course to study . do he not hear why the call for a moratorium , for he just to take his time , be so powerful and why that view be so widely hold ? I absolutely understand the reason why . there will , of course , be some worry when we change to a new system , but we have already delay the onset under the previous Secretary of State for Education . we want to encourage people to do t - level . they be world - beat qualification , and those student will also be offer the chance to do a t - level transition year . as I say , new qualification can be develop . I want to talk about funding , because it have be raise significantly . we be allocate £ 3 . 8 billion more to further education and skill over the Parliament . we announce the final stage of the FE capital transformation programme , worth £ 1 . 5 billion . we be invest up to £ 584 million in skill boot camp . there be an extra £ 1 . 6 billion in 16 - to - 19 education . many member have raise the issue of vat for college , and of course , that need to be consider in the context of wide public finance . as hon . member know , those thing be decide by the Treasury . the Financial Secretary to the Treasury recently respond on this issue in a Westminster Hall debate , but the view of member across the House will have be hear by the Treasury today . we be offer tax - free teacher training bursary of up to £ 29 , 000 in priority subject to encourage more people to come into FE . there be other fund , include a Taking Teaching further incentive payment of £ 6 , 000 for those come from industry into FE . we be do a lot to try to encourage more teacher , and we have spend a fair bit of money on advertising to try to encourage more fe teacher , even with the financial constraint that we have . rise — the hon . member for Wirral West speak passionately about adult education , and I want to let she know about the five pillar that I have for adult education : community learning ; career support ; learn for job ; the lifelong loan entitlement , lifelong learning ; and empower local decision making . I will briefly explain what I mean by they , but first I will answer the question from the right hon . Gentleman . before the Minister move on from FE , it be worth acknowledge that only a few week ago , the University and College Union decide that it will ballot its member in September , with the potential result be industrial action in October if there be not some realistic offer with regard to pay and working condition . be the Minister address that at the moment ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that FE college be autonomous on these matter , so they have to make their decision with the UCU . however , I certainly urge member not to strike , because it cause significant damage to student and learner , many of whom have suffer enormously during covid because of the lockdown . let I go through the five pillar that I mention to the hon . member for Wirral West . community learning refer to the education that we provide for adult in the community . it form part of the overall adult education budget of £ 1 . 34 billion a year . we will continue to use the skill fund provision to support learner furth from the workplace who may need a stepping stone towards formal learning . the provision be not qualification - base and be part of what we call tailor learning . she will know that there be a significant number of course that people can do , if they do not have those qualification or have not do those course already , that be completely free . that support adult to access further learning and employment , and their wellbeing . I accept the hon . Lady ' s argument that adult community learning be vital for wellbee . career support be another issue that be raise by the Select Committee Chair , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester . I be consider the Committee ' s report carefully . we be invest over £ 87 million in high - quality career advice , both for adult and for young people . we have career hub in over 90 % of secondary school ; we have the new Baker clause , which mean that school have to have encounter with apprentice organisation or technical college as well ; and we have the National Careers Service provide advice to adult . the Apprenticeship Support and Knowledge network be also go around school and college , promote career . learn for job be the third pillar — all of the pillar be link . I have talk about the Multiply programme , the free course for job — there be over 400 course — and skill boot camp , in everything from engineer to heavy good vehicle and the green economy . we also have the local skill improvement plan , which ensure that community can advise on what skill they need in their local area , and when we have skill deficit , we have the Unit for Future Skills to look at the national situation . we have the lifelong loan entitlement , which I have speak about briefly . that entitlement will be very powerful and absolutely transformative , because it will allow people to have the end destination of a qualification , but to get on and off at various station along the way by do short course and module of course . the final pillar of adult education be empower local decision maker : mayor , learner and employee . as the hon . member for Wirral West point out , we have devolve 60 % of the adult education budget to 10 area of the country , amount to almost £ 800 million go to the mayoral authority , but empowerment be not just about devolution to local government . the lifelong loan entitlement will devolve power to individual , and apprenticeship devolve power to employer , allow they to develop the skilled workforce that their business need . we plan to publish the mandatory fe workforce census finding later this year as experimental statistic , which will include finding on workforce sector pay — I think it be the hon . member for Wirral West who raise that issue . to conclude , we be invest in fe and skill in difficult circumstance . I absolutely recognise the pressure on resource , and will do everything I can to champion resource with the Treasury and elsewhere . I welcome the thoughtful cross - party debate that we have have right across the House of Commons . I have a picture of John Kennedy in my office at the Department for Education , because I be a big fan . he say that " we choose to go to the moon , not because it be easy , but because it be hard . " like JFK , this Government be unwilling to postpone our fe and skill reform because they be difficult . in testing time , we know how much the benefit that they will bring to our nation ' s economy and prosperity be need . we be determined to build an apprenticeship and skill nation . this have be a really useful , wide - range debate , and I thank everybody who have take part in it . I particularly thank the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) for help to secure it and for his flexibility around that , and also for his focus on 16 - to - 19 education and for raise the issue of BTechs . that be incredibly important ; it be something that have be raise by local school leader in my area , and something that the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) also raise . I support my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) in call for a national education service , free from cradle to grave . as he say , we be a long way away from that , but it be still a really important ambition that we should have . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) , who speak about the impact of Government cut . she speak of a lost decade in adult education and the importance of meet the skill challenge that we face . my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) speak about the appalling workforce crisis in his constituency , an issue that the hon . and learn Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) also raise . recruitment and retention of technical staff be something of an issue . adult education be a public good , and at a time when we be face challenge in the economy , skill and employment , it be vital that the Government revisit the level of funding be provide to the sector and address the recruitment and retention issue that have be so clearly express . it be also important that the Government think again about their approach to non - vocational education and consider the value it can bring to an individual ' s personal development and particularly to our cultural sector , and that they fund a broad curriculum . the Question necessary to dispose of the motion stand over until 7 o ' clock under Standing Order No . 54 . the sitting be therefore suspend until 7 pm . question defer ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . sitting suspend . the Deputy Speaker put the deferred question ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . department for Work and Pensions Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Department for Work and Pensions : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 88 , 727 , 809 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 1383 of session 2022 – 23 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 571 , 264 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 89 , 293 , 628 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . Ministry of Justice Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Ministry of Justice : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 6 , 418 , 705 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 1383 of session 2022 – 23 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 1 , 528 , 277 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 7 , 350 , 811 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . department for Energy Security and Net Zero Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 11 , 749 , 854 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 1383 of session 2022 – 23 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 3 , 525 , 935 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) the sum authorise for issue out of the Consolidated Fund be reduce by £ 3 , 200 , 982 , 000 . Department for Education Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Department for Education : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 42 , 894 , 465 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 1383 of session 2022 – 23 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 22 , 809 , 063 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 62 , 518 , 154 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . the Deputy Speaker then put the question on the outstanding estimate ( Standing Order no . 55 ) . main estimate 2023 - 24 Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 260 , 944 , 202 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 1253 , HC 1297 , HC 1366 , HC 1371 , HC 1380 , HC 1383 and HC 1385 of session 2022 – 23 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 70 , 718 , 410 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 290 , 156 , 315 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Victoria Atkins . ) order , that a Bill be bring in upon the foregoing resolution ; that the Chairman of Ways and Means , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , John Glen , Andrew Griffith , Gareth Davies and Victoria Atkins bring in the Bill . Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Presentation and First read Victoria Atkins accordingly present a Bill to authorise the use of resource for the year end with 31 March 2024 ; to authorise both the issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund and the application of income for that year ; and to appropriate the supply authorise for that year by this Act and by the Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Act 2023 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 343 ) . business without Debate Delegated Legislation I propose to put motion 4 to 9 to the House together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Environmental Protection that the draft Environmental Protection ( Plastic Plates etc . and Polystyrene Containers etc . ) ( England ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 May , be approve . electricity that the draft Electricity and Gas ( Energy Company Obligation ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 24 May , be approve . highway that the draft Business and Planning Act 2020 ( Pavement Licences ) ( Coronavirus ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 June , be approve . pension that the draft Pensions Dashboards ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 8 June , be approve . International Development that the draft African Development Fund ( Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 22 May , be approve . that the draft African Development Bank ( Sixteenth Replenishment of the African Development Fund ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 May , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . Financial Markets and Monetary Policy Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) it be a pleasure to be here and to see the Treasury Minister on the Front Bench for the debate . I appreciate that many of these matter be deal with by the Bank of England , but that be part of the reason why I will raise a number of point . I vote against quite a lot of lockdown , with one of the strong reason be that if 7 to 9 million people be sit at home and , at the same time , the Bank of England be print substantial sum of money , there might well be consequence . we can see in inflation , the strike and a number of other thing the pernicious effect of money printing and inflation in the british economy . during lockdown , the Government take on a substantial amount of debt . many people who be sit at home be pay reduce salary , but they could not spend the money , so they build up substantial saving . there be debate among economist about the amount of those saving . some think it be 4 % of gdp ; other 8 % . the Office for Budget Responsibility put the figure at around £ 228 billion . that have be power the economy over the past several month . the OBR initially predict that we would have a recession , but the economy have shrug that off . it be highly likely that this year we will not have a reversal . we may have a cost of live crisis in pay and inflation , but there be still a substantial amount of money flow through the british economy . the amount of money print and the fact that people be not produce anything have create a problem . as we see from headline last week , one of the reason that inflation be sticky be that money be still flow through the economy . headline last week report that package holiday be more expensive because they be not be discount . second - hand car be go for quite a high rate . although hospitality have have problem with high energy bill , it be difficult in many area to book a restaurant or a hotel . the discounting that we would normally see at certain time of year be not happen , which be why inflation have not fall as much as we expect . nevertheless , supermarket suggest today that food price be start to fall , and energy price be fall . I think it highly likely that inflation will fall , although it will be a little delay . there be a lot of money swish around in the british economy . the Bank have be push into raise interest rate . the thing about interest rate be that , unlike 20 year ago when most people have variable rate , a lot of people be now on fix - rate mortgage , especially those with large mortgage . therefore , there will be a lag , as there always be when interest rate be put up , but this time it will be substantial . my concern be that most of the impact of raise interest rate on the economy have not yet be feel . every now and again , the Bank will feel pressured to keep raise rate , particularly at a time when financial market test the Bank and we have a 24 - hour news cycle . that will be a problem for the british economy because raise rate will not make much difference to the next financial year , but will have a big effect in 2025 . a number of people have express concern that we may have overkill in raise rate . Andrew Haldane , the Bank of England ' s chief economist a while back — a very good economist with a good finger on the pulse of the british economy — be worry that the Bank will overdo it . David Smith write a good article in the Times today , in which he say " a little patience " need to be show . we will have a testing time over the next 12 to 18 month , because raise rate will not show up much in reduce spending in the shop , and there will be various pressure on the Bank to act . what we actually need be masterful inactivity and a lack of action , to let thing continue . we will have a fall in inflation . we will probably go to real interest rate , which we do not have at the moment . the Bank need to keep calm , have patience and allow inflation to fall , and that will do the job that need to be do , but it will take a particular while . there be pressure in the market . today , two - year gilt be sell at 5 . 668 % , which be the high for 20 year . the market will keep on test the Bank . that be my first concern . I know that the Chancellor of the Exchequer rightly have regular meeting with the Governor of the Bank , although I be not sure they have cocoa or a glass of claret . the message from the Treasury and from Parliament have be , " be patient . do not get yourself push into raise rate and cause a major reversal in 18 month or two year ' time . " in the short term , there will be an effect on the economy in term of housebuilding and the construction industry , but I suspect it will not have much of an impact on budget until that time pass . I commend the hon . gentleman for raise this complex matter . he be outline the issue for the bank and talk about ensure patience and balance . my constituent tell I that they be worried about mortgage increase , as I be sure be his constituent and everyone here tonight . they worry about all the thing he refer to , as well as increase price . what would he say to those worried constituent who might not have such patience and do not know whether they will have possession of their house in a year ' s time ? interest rate be a very blunt instrument and I be sure many people be worried . I hope that if inflation pick up trajectory and go down , we will start to see interest rate top off and that some with fix mortgage — many have quite long fix mortgage — will feel much more relaxed . to pay tribute to the Chancellor , he have , with the lender and in a very competent way , produce a very good package of forbearance for those who may have problem with mortgage . the Government have , in many respect , set a very stable environment for the economy , but there be worry . my principal worry about the Bank , independent as it be , be that it may overdo interest rate rise . my second point concern quantitative easing and quantitative tightening . clearly , we do more QE than be probably need , but we be where we be and it need to be reverse . if you be go to try to eat an elephant , you have to do it one bite at a time . it will take we 20 to 25 year to reduce the stock of bond that the Bank of England hold , and what I do not understand be why the Government be not have a more active discussion with the Bank about when it will sell the bond . we have a situation where the Bank have put up interest rate , that lead to a fall in bond and at the same time the Bank sell bond , create a loss that it pass on to the Treasury . whereas if it wait three or four month , inflation be likely to fall and some pressure may come off bond , and that may mean that it be able to sell bond for a slightly high amount . now , whether there be a sort of hair - shirt virility symbol in do that , I think sell bond into a market where you will lose more than you would otherwise do be not really very good husbandry . ultimately , although the Bank hold the debt , as the Government be the underwriter of the debt , it be a little bit like say to your estate agent , " go and sell the house , I don ' t care what the price be . " the Government should have a view so that when we discuss thing with the Bank , we ought to try to do our good to minimise the loss on quantitative easing as we reverse the process . some projection say that over the next 20 year the loss could be £ 100 billion . well , if we be very careful in how we get rid of the bond and it be a £ 90 billion loss , then that be a win . Mrs Thatcher always have a problem that when she be try to control broad money there be no instrument apart from high interest rate , but if we have this stock of bond over the next 20 year , it might well be that it could form a part of policy that we either speed up or slow down to reduce broad money . it might be something that can be use in policy term . my view be that the Debt Management Office — which have an interest because it have to sell Government debt , and the Bank of England sell it at the same time do not help — the Governor of the Bank of England and the Chancellor really ought to sit down a couple of time a year and agree a joint letter that set out the parameter for how they will unscramble quantitative easing with a quantitative tighten programme , which I think the market would understand . I do not think anybody would think we be infringe on the independence of the Bank of England if we be actually try to ensure that the taxpayer get good value . on almost anything , any budget or taxation , the Treasury be very careful in approve thing . this could be a big budget item each year for the next several year , so I do not know why we be take a relatively benign attitude of say to the Bank , " just sell it and we ' ll pay the bill . " I should say that I be a Lord Commissioner for a while and I sign some of the document that indemnify the Bank . [ interruption . ] there be probably another Lord Commissioner laugh , but we ought to pay quite careful attention to how we unscramble this . those who read the column by my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) will know that he have raise this matter a number of time . it be worth raise , because we be at the early point of unscramble quantitative easing , and slightly more interaction between the Government and the Bank of England be necessary . my final point be about money supply . during the pandemic , we be print money at 20 % . then the money supply drop a little , to about 15 % , and now it have drop very substantially . M2 be nearly into negative territory , and accord to the last Bank of England estimate , M3X and M4X be grow by between 1 % and 2 % . too much money in the economy be a bad thing because it create inflation , but too little money in the economy be a bad thing because it can cause a credit crunch . in his book on the Wall Street crash , John Kenneth Galbraith point out that the principal reason for the major worldwide depression be the fact that money in the United States economy decline by a third . that be what push the economy over the edge , because the banking system essentially collapse . we have go from an over - exuberant money supply situation to one in which money supply be barely grow . this be not unique to Britain ; it be a feature in the eurozone and in the United States , and we know that the eurozone will have further problem . those country still have differential in productivity and trade imbalance , and there be money swish through their system as well . there be even some discussion about the Bundesbank have to be bail out because of bond it have buy — and , unlike the Bank of England , it can not print money because it do not have a currency . there be a worldwide problem . money supply be fall in the United States , in Europe and in the United Kingdom . if we assume the normal 18 month to two year , that take we into 2025 . my principal point be that if we raise interest rate , which have an impact after a long lag that will hit at the end of 2024 and the beginning of 2025 , and if we have a reduction in monetary growth and credit which have an impact at the end of 2024 and the beginning of 2025 , there will be two interaction that could cause growth to hit a brick wall . the economy have change substantially over the year . we now have internet banking , money flow very freely , and we have digital currency . I think we ought to be look much more carefully at what be go on in the british economy , and , indeed , at how money supply affect real output . however , I think we also need a monetary policy ; I do not think we should withdraw completely and allow the Bank of England to determine these matter , and that may require we to look at lever to ensure that credit and monetary growth go up . what I really want to do this evening be to put it on the record for those at the Treasury that if they read Twitter , they will find that many monetarist economist be begin to think that the decline in money will cause severe economic dislocation . the rule of thumb be that there should be a smooth transition of money , not sharp fall or sharp rise , and I fear that we be not get a smooth transition of money . as I have say , that be a feature of all the various zone , and it be something that the Government need to pay attention to and not ignore . the Government do not mention money supply very much . the Bank of England have start to talk about it again , but I suspect that we have to learn what Mrs Thatcher would have tell we some year ago : that money be very important , and it be a very important part of economic policy . we can not totally vacate it and leave it to central banker . one reason I always oppose the euro be that I do not think the problem of the world could be solve by unelected central banker , and I think some of that go for our own unelected central banker . the next time the Minister see the Chancellor , I hope he will ask he to read the report of this debate and reflect on the fact that there be a problem with money supply . we may be go into a new era , although I do not know whether the supply will continue to be negative or whether it will pick up , and the Chancellor need to have discussion with other actor in this area . if we be not careful , the combination of the lag on interest rate and the current credit squeeze could give an incoming Conservative Government a real nightmare in due course , in term of the way in which they manage the economy . so let we give these matter a little thought . I look forward to the Minister ' s reply . probably , in accordance with the normal Treasury line at the moment , he will reply by not say very much , but I be sure he have listen . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) on secure this debate . notwithstanding the fact that he may have accurately predict my reticence in some area , this be an important matter . it be the House that originally decide on the current monetary arrangement , and it be a matter for the House to continue to scrutinise how they be conduct . I also thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for his contribution . as my hon . friend the Member for Poole know , the Monetary Policy Committee have operational independence . that cover all monetary policy , include both the Bank rate and the relatively novel feature of quantitative tightening , which we have see for the first time in recent month . it be not entirely an independent actor ; the Chancellor annually write to the Governor and the Monetary Policy Committee with a remit letter , which have remain unchanged in its most substantive term , which be the inflation target of 2 % . I think everyone in the House understand the clear position of the Government , the Chancellor and the Prime Minister on the desirability of bear down on inflation to try to remove what be a hidden tax on everybody in society and get we as quickly as possible to the point where not just inflation be fall , but interest rate be fall on the back of that . my hon . friend know that financial market be determine by a wide range of factor . it be of note that many of those factor be international : across most western economy , we be see some combination of they . he talk about the gilt market , which I reassure he remain deep and liquid . it have trade throughout the past 12 month ; it have a good track record and be one of the deep market in the world . underlying demand for the UK ' s debt remain strong , and we have a well - diversify investor base . the Debt Management Office co - ordinate closely with the Bank on the new phenomenon of quantitative tightening , whereby the Bank itself be sell gilt . clearly it be not desirable for anybody that both the Bank and the Government be in the market at the same time . there be a high degree of operational co - ordination between the Bank of England and the Debt Management Office . in the Treasury , we pay close attention to the operation of market and — as we do in the autumn of last year and in the case of Silicon Valley Bank UK Ltd — will take whatever action be necessary . I want to state the Government ' s position very clearly for my hon . friend and for the House . I listen very carefully to his point and comment about each of the money supply measure that be publish , and I will take they back to Treasury colleague and the Chancellor . I spend some time yesterday with the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee , and I concede to it that my view be that money do matter . we should not be indifferent : it be a factor . the level of money supply , which my hon . friend raise , be a feature . we have be through an unprecedented period . none of we forecast the global covid pandemic and none of we foresaw Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . nevertheless , my hon . friend raise an important point that I will take back to colleague . I be reassure that he be pay close attention to it , as I know be other colleague in the House . my hon . friend will also know that the MPC , in decide to pursue quantitative tightening , have set out its ambition for the 12 month ahead , so there be a clear road map . it vote in September 2022 to reduce the stock of asset purchase by £ 80 billion over the follow 12 month through redemption and active sale , and that be come through . just as the Treasury receive the benefit , it be also pick up some of the cost of those sale as the transaction conclude . the Government will ensure that in fiscal policy — that for which we be responsible — we continue to make tough choice to bear down on inflation , and that it be align with monetary policy . my hon . friend be kind enough to acknowledge the level of interaction and dialogue that happen at multiple level between the Bank and the Treasury . each have its respective role , but he can be reassure that policy be co - ordinated . on that note , I thank my hon . friend again for his thoughtful contribution this evening . I also thank the hon . member for Strangford for join this important debate . I suspect it will not be the last time this House debate the matter and , give the magnitude and significance of the impact of monetary policy , that be probably appropriate , but it be for the House to decide . I look forward to continue to engage with my hon . friend and other hon . member on this and other important issue relate to financial policy . question put and agree to . House adjourn .