I express my thank and those of my Lib Dem colleague to everyone work over the Christmas period to keep people healthy and safe . preparedness for winter be absolutely critical for our health and care system , and a quick look at what happen last year show we why . ambulance across England collectively spend a total of 112 year wait outside hospital to hand patient over , and a quarter of a million people wait more than 12 hour to be see . every winter we be warn of a winter crisis . under the Conservatives , crisis become the norm not just in winter but all year round . this year be very concern so far . a & Es have overflow through spring , summer and autumn . at my local hospital trust , Shrewsbury and Telford , one in three ambulance have have to wait more than an hour to hand over patient , while patient with devastating cancer diagnosis have have to wait month for crucial scan result . across England , more than 7 million people be on waiting list . meanwhile , I be afraid , we have not hear enough from the Government on fix one of the root cause of this crisis , which be our broken social care system . the scale of the crisis be demonstrate by the challenge face ambulance service across the country at the moment . October — before the winter — be the third bad month ever for handover delay at West Midlands ambulance service , which cover my constituency . the equivalent of 130 ambulance crew be out of action , wait every single day . now these overstretch ambulance service be formally change their advice to reflect the pressure they be under . at time of peak demand , even category 2 patient — those suffer a heart attack or a stroke — will be ask to make their own way to a hospital . People in North Shropshire have long have to put up with some of the bad ambulance wait in the country , and they have come to harm as a result . it may no long be the case that they can rely on an ambulance arrive . action be urgently need to prevent more preventable death this winter . I be sure the Minister share my alarm that ambulance may not be reach people face life - threaten situation . if she do , will she commit today to the Government tackle the handover delay paralyse the ambulance service by accept liberal Democrat proposal to make a £ 1 . 5 billion fund to provide more staffed bed , and by agree to urgent cross - party talk to fix the crisis in social care ? I welcome the Minister ' s announcement on the Green Paper on the future of the Post Office . it be also welcome that the Government be take additional step towards financial redress for the postmaster who suffer such horrendous treatment in that scandal . I be concerned that this new deal for postmaster come at the expense of post office branch across the country , include at Kensington Park in my constituency . do he agree that there should not be a choice between give postmaster a fair deal and lose essential high street service ? will he please meet I to discuss that far ?