funnily enough , early today I be talk to the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , about exactly that issue . the hon . Gentleman mention that there be no mandate three year ago , and I be discuss how the reporting and so on be go . we know that not only be there the benefit of redistribution for individual but there be a significant environmental benefit for not put that food in landfill and create methane , so arguably there be a double win . when do sensibly , redistribution enable other to do the same as charity such as the Felix Project , which freeze food and make it available to people . the economy have turn a corner . inflation have more than halve and be forecast to fall below 2 % in 2024 - 25 , while wage be rise in real term and have do for the last consecutive nine month . price for food and non - alcoholic beverage rise by 12 % in the year to March , ease for the 12th consecutive month . however , we recognise the financial challenge that many be still face , which be why as inflation come down to the 2 % target we be continue to provide support for the 2024 - 25 period . this include uprating working - age benefit by 6 . 7 % , well ahead of the current inflation rate , and uplift the local housing allowance to the 30th percentile of local rent , which will benefit about 1 . 6 million private renter by , on average , £ 800 a year , as the hon . Gentleman indicate , alleviate financial pressure throughout the system for individual . far , there be additional support for family , include free school meal , which be be claim by some 2 million of the most disadvantaged pupil ; the £ 40 million that the Department for Education have put into stimulate the breakfast club ; and healthy food scheme , such as Healthy Start , which provide a nutritional safety net to more than 3 million child . I look after the Healthy Start policy when I be at the Department of Health and Social Care , get the uplift to £ 4 . 25 a week , so that pregnant woman and child over one and under four receive £ 4 . 25 every week . for a child under one , it be £ 8 . 50 every week . this can be use to buy , or be put towards the cost of , fresh , frozen or tin fruit and vegetable ; fresh , dried and tin pulse ; milk and infant formula . I remember well meeting Daisy , who speak to I very clearly about the difference it make have fresh produce , as the hon . Gentleman have already mention , come into her life and those of her child , and the nutritional benefit it give they . for those who still need extra help while inflation continue to fall , we be provide an additional £ 500 million to enable the extension of the household support fund for a further six month , include funding for the devolved Administrations through the Barnett formula , mean local authority in England will receive an additional £ 421 million to support local people , with the rest be distribute to the other nation . independent charitable organisation do fantastic work that also help in this space , whether they be our local church or organisation provide lunch and community pantry scheme . as the hon . Gentleman mention , they all help individual and family when they be in need .