Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — Climate change : UK Leadership what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to demonstrate UK leadership on climate change . the Foreign Secretary make clear at his kew lecture that the climate must be at the heart of all that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office do . when we have that focus on climate adaptation and mitigation , we see economic growth globally and in our country . the rise death toll from the wildfire in Los Angeles and the damage to our community recently cause by Storms Bert and Darragh serve as clear reminder of escalate weather extreme and the urgent need to tackle the climate emergency . will the Minister explain how the Government be actively drive effort to cut emission and champion clean energy , both in the UK and across the globe ? our thought be with all those hit by the dreadful crisis that my hon . friend mention . at COP29 , the UK show leadership in set an ambitious nationally determined contribution to cut emission by 81 % by 2035 . we be champion clean energy at home and abroad , include through the launch of GB Energy and the global clean power alliance . former MI6 chief Sir Richard Dearlove have warn against the risk of rely on China for Britain ' s energy infrastructure . what assessment have the Minister make of the involvement of chinese supply chain in the Government ' s solar plan ? this Government be determined to have a consistent and clear - eyed approach to China and to avoid the oscillation that we see under previous government ; as a result , we be conduct a China audit that will look thoroughly at all our relationship with China . we will compete where we must , challenge where we need to and co - operate where that be necessary . I call the shadow Minister . the Government sign up to a $ 300 billion climate finance package at COP29 , with the amount increase by $ 50 billion to get a deal . since then , minister have not be able to give detail of what our share will be , how much british taxpayer will fund , and what will come from official development assistance and what from private enterprise and investment . can the Minister provide any of those detail , and , if not , will she commit to a timetable for disclosure of that information ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her question , but she will surely understand that the COP agreement be about the global goal . the precise share for individual country be work out through the normal process . it be her government — a Conservative Government — who commit to the £ 11 . 6 billion climate finance goal . unlike the previous Government , however , we be determined to fit that within our responsibility and deliver on it for the sake of our climate and our economy . strengthen NATO what discussion he have have with NATO ally on strengthen that alliance . NATO be the cornerstone of UK and Euro - atlantic security . indeed , the first act of this Government be to publicly state our commitment to a " NATO first " defence policy . we regularly discuss NATO with our ally ; NATO Foreign and Defence Ministers meet three time a year , with the most recent Foreign Ministers ' meeting have be in December , which the Foreign Secretary and I both attend . for 75 year , NATO have stand as a bulwark against territorial acquisition , and NATO be strong when all its member stand against that . what discussion do the Foreign Secretary plan to have with the President - elect of the United States about the status of Denmark , Greenland and Canada ? will the Foreign Secretary remind President - elect Trump that when he pronounce on how he would like to expand the United States ' sphere of influence , NATO ' s adversary be also watch ? as the Foreign Secretary make clear last week , Greenland be part of the Kingdom of Denmark , and the future of its constitutional arrangement be a matter for the people and Government of Greenland and , indeed , the Kingdom of Denmark . it would be wrong to speculate on any policy decision that the incoming Administration of President - elect Trump may make . I deliver those message during a meeting with the greenlandic Foreign Minister yesterday . there be , rightly , important concern about security in the Arctic , which be why I be proud to be one of the first British Ministers in 10 year to attend the Arctic Circle Assembly and meet partner to discuss these issue just a few month ago . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . may I congratulate the Foreign Office on the inspire appointment of our new ambassador in Washington DC ? not many candidate would be able to fill the shoe of Dame Karen Pierce , who have represent UK interest so exceptionally in both New York and Washington ; she be an inspirational leader and a skilled diplomat . Lord Mandelson ' s appointment be unusual , however . it be not often that circumstance demand that the UK appoint someone who be not a career diplomat to be our ambassador to such a key NATO ally . to silence critic and to show respect to Parliament and its Committees , will the Foreign Office agree that we should return to the policy of the previous Labour Government , and allow Lord Mandelson the time to come before my Committee before he leave for the United States ? that will allow my colleague to hear directly why the Prime Minister have appoint he , and to learn what his priority be in this crucial diplomatic role . we be absolutely convinced that Lord Mandelson will do an excellent job as our representative in Washington , and it be a pleasure to meet he last week and discuss his plan as he prepare to take up his post . obviously we have one ambassador at a time , but I be sure that we will consider any request that my right hon . friend make in due course in the normal way in which we consider request from her Committee . I call the shadow Minister . the NATO alliance stand at the cornerstone of our defence and have be essential to the security of the free world . give the importance of the Indo - Pacific security alliance , strengthen co - operation and dialogue with key ally in the region have be paramount , and our military base on Diego Garcia be a vital british - american strategic asset . however , Ministers have fail to give answer to question about its future , or about the cost involve in the propose treaty with Mauritius . will the Minister give one straight answer ? will he make a commitment to the House to wait until President Trump be in office and have have time to discuss this deal with the new Administration before finalise any agreement with Mauritius — yes or no ? the shadow Minister be right about the importance of security in the Indo - Pacific . indeed , when we see north korean troop fight in Russia and Ukraine , when we see iranian missile be use and when we see military company elsewhere in the Indo - Pacific region supply Russia , it be crucial that we see global security as one . as you know , Mr Speaker , I have answer many question about the matter to which the hon . Gentleman have refer . our deal secure the future security of the base on Diego Garcia , and it have support across the US Administration and across the United States national security apparatus . we will come forward with detail in due course . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) point out , President - elect Trump have threaten to use force to seize the Panama canal and Greenland , and he have promise tariff of 25 % on Canada and Mexico . whatever else we can predict about the presidency that begin next Monday , we know that it will be unpredictable . may I therefore ask the Minister what step his Government have take to trump - proof UK foreign policy so that we can not be hold hostage in the security , economic or climate realm by a President who put short - term deal ahead of long - term relationship , and what specific step the Government have take to accelerate an improvement in the UK ' s relationship with european partner since 5 November ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s last point , he know very well the commitment that we have make to european security through NATO — and , indeed , through our reset of relation not only with the European Union but across Europe — and the leadership that we have show in , for example , tackle the russian shadow fleet by work with partner across Europe , a process that we begin at the European Political Community summit . the special relationship endure — it have endure , and it will continue to endure — and we look forward to work with President - elect Trump and his team on a range of issue . I have already give an answer in relation to Greenland ; in relation to Panama , we respect the Torrijos – Carter treaty and recognise the important role that Panama play in world trade . Sudan : Humanitarian Situation what step his Department be take to support the victim of the humanitarian crisis in Sudan . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Sudan . the UK will continue to use all diplomatic avenue to press the war party in Sudan into a permanent ceasefire , to enable unrestricted humanitarian access and to protect civilian . the Liberal Democrats welcome the humanitarian support that the Government be give to Sudan . we also recognise that great protection be need for woman , child and ethnic minority group . in the light of the failure of the United Nations to back safe area , what be the UK do to create safe zone for school and hospital in Sudan ? I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s support for the measure the UK Government have be take . clearly , there be dreadful problem when it come to civilian protection in Sudan . the UK put forward a resolution to the Security Council , with Sierra Leone , focus on the protection of civilian . it be appal that Russia veto that resolution . we will continue to use every avenue available to we to promote their safety . I thank the Minister for her reply and for the focus she have give this important issue . the suffering , famine and displacement in Sudan be only intensify , so will she outline the practical step the Government be take to protect human right , promote peace and bring an end to this appalling conflict ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention the extreme need to act on what be the bad humanitarian crisis in the world . the UK have double its aid to Sudan . we have seek to use the UN Security Council , as I mention . we ensure through the Foreign Secretary that there be a Sudan session with G7 and Arab Quint Foreign Ministers , and the UK special representative to Sudan have visit Sudan ; that occur in December for the first time since the conflict . I welcome what the right hon . Lady say yesterday , but the delivery of aid be clearly be use as a weapon in this conflict . what step be be take to ensure that the aid get through to the people most in need on the ground in Sudan ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise that . I know he share our deep concern about the impact of restriction on aid , which we have particularly see feed through into the famine assessment from the IPC — integrate food security phase classification — that come out at the end of last year . there must be , above all , a permanent opening of crossing . we be , of course , pleased to see the Adre cross open for three month , but it must be open permanently . we also need to see cross - line availability of aid . we need to have the war party focus on humanitarian need , not on pursue a war that they both appear to think they can win but as a result of which civilian be suffer appallingly . follow on from the question from the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , I welcome the Government ' s ongoing support for the humanitarian effort in Sudan and the wide region , but do the Minister share my concern that aid risk not reach those who need it most ? will she continue to put pressure on Sudan for the Adre cross to be keep open permanently , so that vital aid can get to those who need it most ? could she update the House on what step she be take in that area ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for be so clear about the challenge around aid come into Sudan and then be deliver to those who so desperately need it . we will keep push on the need for the Adre cross to remain open . we will also keep push on the need for aid worker to be protect within Sudan and for UN staff to be able to access Sudan . of course , we will work with those on the ground , particularly the emergency response room , which be deliver essential mutual aid . UK Economic Growth what step he be take with international partner to help increase UK economic growth . the UK and India ' s Prime Ministers have commit to an ambitious refresh of the comprehensive strategic partnership . they announce that the UK - India trade talk will relaunch , which will deliver our joint ambition to take the UK - India relationship to even great height , and India be one of a handful of country that will determine whether we meet the global warming limit of 1 . 5 ° c . this be indeed an exciting year to help improve our economic growth and our trading relationship with India . we be two nation with an intertwine history and common democratic ideal , and we face the risk of a dangerous world and a warm planet . I co - chair the India all - party parliamentary group , and one of my priority be to strengthen our economic and strategic relationship . can the Secretary of State outline what he will do to help get a good UK - India trade deal over the line , include the exchange of green technology to help prevent and reduce the warming of our planet ? it be important to get to India just a few week into office . I might pray in aid my great - grandmother on my mother ' s side , who be from Calcutta . I look forward to invite Foreign Minister Jaishankar to Britain later in the spring . it be important that we have a strategic partnership go forward . we have relaunche the free trade agreement — we have say that it be a floor , not a ceiling on our ambition — and it be important that a delegation of indian businessman meet the Chancellor of the Exchequer , I and the Prime Minister just a few week before Christmas . among our great UK export be our culture and our creative industry , so I be keen to hear what conversation the Foreign Secretary have have with international counterpart — not only to improve the opportunity for british artist to tour , particularly post Brexit , but to take advantage of the appetite for bilateral cultural agreement , which have be articulate by a number of our overseas counterpart . the hon . Lady will be pleased that we will very shortly launch our new soft power council , specifically to look in detail at this issue . I be pleased to secure further funding for the BBC World Service in the spending review , which be very important . as we move forward with our reset , we continue to discuss , particularly with european ally , what more we can do for tour artist . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . this weekend , we have the indignity of see the Chancellor of the Exchequer flee the financial mess that she have leave at home in the United Kingdom while embrace the chinese Communist party — labour ' s friend — and the Chinese Government in a desperate attempt to secure money from they . can the Foreign Secretary explain how this new love - in with one of the big threat to our national security and freedom help our national interest ? what message do that send to Jimmy Lai , Hong Kong bno face threat in our country , and other live in fear of China ? be this Government ' s reset with China the cause of the delay in implement the foreign influence registration scheme ? the right hon . Lady come to the Dispatch Box with chutzpah and a brass neck after a period in which we have about seven different China policy from the last Government , who leave a huge £ 22 billion black hole in the economy . I might remind she that President Trump have invite the chinese President to his inauguration , and that trade between the US and China have grow . we can also protect our national security , just as the United States have do . that be why we will compete with China where we need to and challenge it where we must , but we must co - operate in important area of trade , because we want to see growth in our economy . we be absolutely minded to move forward with that . Emily Damari what step his Department be take to help secure the release of Emily Damari . ensure the safe release of all hostage , include british national Emily Damari and three other with strong UK link , be a top priority for this Government . we have continually support hostage talk , and support the effort of the american , egyptian and qatari negotiator . we be exercise every diplomatic lever to secure the hostage ' immediate and unconditional release , and call on all party to show flexibility at the negotiation table . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for his answer . last month I have the privilege of meet Mandy , Emily ' s mother , to discuss her family ' s plight and their campaign and effort to secure Emily ' s release . I know that the Foreign Secretary meet Mandy yesterday in Israel ; I speak to she afterwards , and she be very grateful for that meeting . what step be the Government take to secure humanitarian access to the hostage before release , which Hamas be disgracefully avoid , and what pressure be be put on Qatar and Egypt in that regard ? it be important to be with Mandy Damari in Israel yesterday and to speak to the Israelis , and to be in Saudi Arabia just before that , particularly to speak to my egyptian counterpart and to press these issue . as Joe Biden have say , we may well be on the brink of a deal , and I know that the whole House will want to see that deal emerge in the come day and to see Emily come home . my hon . friend can be assure that humanitarian access , for which we have continue to press for the people of Gaza , be hugely important , and it be as important for the hostage . it will take some time for they to come out , and they need that humanitarian access . at Easter last year I have the opportunity to meet Amanda Damari in Israel and to speak to some of the family of the hostage who be kidnap by Hamas on that terrible and unfortunately memorable day , 7 October . the family have have a yo - yo of emotion : will the hostage be free , or will they not be free ? now , all of a sudden , there be a possibility . after the rollercoaster of emotion that the family have be on over the last year and a half , how can we ensure that they get the direct help that they need from our government ? the hon . Gentleman be right . we want to see Emily Damari free , and all the hostage , particularly the UK - link hostage . we know from our contact with their family — I be think about the move event that we have in no . 10 on 30 September — that there will be deep psychological scar , and we must commit to do all we can through our ongoing humanitarian effort to support those hostage in their process of recovery . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . all member of the House will praise the courage and resilience of the hostage family and have the hostage in their thought right now , particularly Emily ' s mother Mandy and Emily herself . report of the progress be make on the hostage negotiation be truly welcome , include the Foreign Secretary ' s discussion during and after his visit to Israel . can he give an update on what information he have receive about the proof of life of those hostage ? importantly , what resource will our Government be provide to support the hostage through the release process over the period of time speculate , and to bring about a sustainable end to this awful conflict ? first , we do all we can to establish proof of life . the right hon . Lady will understand that this situation be fast move , and even post any deal it can take some degree of time before the hostage come out . I would therefore not want to be push on that issue at the Dispatch Box , but I want to assure she that we be do all we can to continue to make that necessary assessment . as I say , we be — I hope — on the brink of a deal . it will be the first phase of a deal that will probably last six week , and that be important to bear in mind . all of we in this House hope to get to a ceasefire and the necessary rebuilding of Gaza , with Israel safe and secure — that will be very important — so that the middle east can move forward in an atmosphere of peace . Iran what assessment he have make of the potential impact of Iran ' s attack on Israel on regional stability . what diplomatic step he be take to help counter potential threat to global stability by Iran . we unequivocally condemn Iran ' s attack on Israel in April and October 2024 . these attack , and Iran ' s ongoing support for its proxy and partner , have destabilise the region and fuelled escalation . alongside our ally and partner , we will continue to hold Iran to account for this behaviour , include through sanction , address iranian weapon proliferation , and maintain our permanent defence presence in the region . I thank the Minister for that answer . clearly , we all hope that there will be a deal to release the hostage hold illegally in Gaza . give that Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis , the proxy of Iran , be on the brink of defeat , the risk to the region now be that Iran take direct action . as we want to see the end of the despotic regime that brutalise the people of Iran , now be the time for sanction and the proscription of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps once and for all . will the Minister take the necessary action to bring that regime to its knee , so that democracy can be restore to Iran ? I recognise that the hon . Member have ask question about proscribe the irgc a number of time in this Chamber , and I can assure he that we be work urgently on measure to take the necessary action to deter the iranian state from pose a threat to this country and the region . we will continue to update the House in due course . with the re - election of President Trump in the US , we be likely to see a return to his policy of maximum pressure to prevent Iran from develop a nuclear weapon . what be the Secretary of State ' s view on that approach ? will the Government support our ally in the United States of America ? we continue to work closely with the American Administration , and we look forward to do so with the new Administration . it be regrettably true that Iran ' s nuclear programme have never be more advanced , and it threaten international peace and security . we remain determined that Iran must never develop a nuclear weapon , and we remain committed to a diplomatic solution to achieve that . Gaza : humanitarian Situation what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . the scale of humanitarian suffering in Gaza be catastrophic and unacceptable . the UK condemn Israel ' s restriction on aid in the strong term . this be a man - make crisis , and Israel must act immediately to address it . the aid agency I have speak to be particularly concerned about access to medical facility and critical shortage of medical supply in Gaza , particularly northern Gaza . in the light of that , what step be the Government take to get additional medical supply to Gaza for both Palestinians and israeli hostage in desperate humanitarian situation ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this incredibly important issue . in December , I see for myself in Jordan how medical aid have be block from enter Gaza . as I have say before , the position that the UK Government have articulate at every possible juncture be that restriction on lifesave aid must end . the UK continue to provide core healthcare relief item , and have provide 76 , 000 wound care kit , 1 . 3 million item of medicine , and critical funding for UK - Med to run its field hospital in Gaza . I thank the Minister for her response , and I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s effort to secure a sustainable ceasefire and the release of hostage . many of my constituent have express concern about the recent raid of Kamal Adwan hospital , which be one of the last healthcare facility still operate in Gaza . the hospital ' s director , Dr Safiya , be detain along with several of his staff during that raid . international law prohibit the detention of medical staff in conflict zone . what be the Minister do to secure the release of these medical staff so that Gaza ' s civilian can continue to access essential medical care ? my hon . friend be right to raise this critically important issue . we have raise the protection of healthcare facility and the detention of healthcare worker directly with the israeli Government . the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , have specifically raise the detention of Dr Hussam Abu Safiya with both Israel ' s deputy Foreign Minister and its ambassador to the UK . the ceasefire that be apparently be progress be seemingly the same as the one draft in May , which be deliberately frustrate by member of the israeli Government . sadly , since that time , hostage and those falsely imprison have remain captive and so many life have be lose . no doubt the Minister can assure the public that , should the ceasefire be confirm , every effort will be make to get aid and supply to the Palestinians , particularly those in northern Gaza . do she agree that this mean that neither israeli military activity nor israeli legislation prevent the work of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency can be accept ? there absolutely must be a surge of aid into Gaza ; that will be critical after a ceasefire . however , impediment to aid that remain must also be remove . the issue of UNRWA have be previously discuss in the House . the UK Government ' s position be that UNRWA must be able to continue to operate . it be the only organisation with the scale and depth necessary to get that lifesave aid to people who need it . UAV Engines Ltd , base in Staffordshire , manufacture the engine power the Hermes 450 drone , which be manufacture by Elbit Systems in the UK and use by the israeli military in the Gaza strip . Israel regard the Hermes 450 as a critical asset , provide strike capability . will the Minister confirm whether those drone , engine or any other part for the Hermes 450 drone be still be supply to Israel from the UK ? the UK have the most robust arm control regime in any global comparison . this Government be determined to ensure that we fulfil our legal responsibility and that we assess , fully and legally , arm exportation licence . I can confirm to the House that since 2 September there have be no extant UK export licence for item to Israel that we assess be for use in military operation in Gaza . last week , Hamas fire rocket at the Erez crossing , demonstrate once again the terror group ' s intention to disrupt aid delivery and prolong the suffering of Gazans , as well as Israelis . what assistance have the UK Government offer to support repair that crossing and support Israel as it get much - need aid into Gaza ? we remain directly in contact with Israel , with UN agency and with other partner in the region . that be obviously at ministerial level and also with our special representative for humanitarian issue in the occupy Palestinian Territories . the issue of crossing and their openness and safety have be raise repeatedly by the special representative and by member of this Government . that also cover attack by the terrorist Hamas on those crossing . while Gaza stand on the verge of absolute annihilation , the israeli ambassador to the UK have repeatedly express opposition to a two - state solution , emphasise that that be not a feasible solution . give that the UK have consistently express support for a two - state solution but do not yet recognise one of the state , will the Minister clarify any discussion she have have with the israeli ambassador ? order . this question be about humanitarian aid , but I be sure the Minister will be able to answer . the UK Government ' s position be , indeed , that there must be a two - state solution . the new Government have be determine to do all we can towards that end . that will include advocate for that solution at every juncture , include with embassy and , as would be expect , with the israeli embassy . UK Support for Israel what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the war in Gaza on UK support for Israel . the UK remain committed to support Israel ' s security and wide regional stability in the face of threat from malign actor such as Iran . we be clear that Israel must act in accordance with international humanitarian law and do more to protect civilian , hospital and those who be in desperate need of their service . notwithstanding the hope that we all have of a ceasefire , atrocity continue to take place daily in Gaza , with the killing of child , the bombing of hospital and the threat of ban aid at the end of the month . will the Secretary of State explain exactly what the israeli Government have to do to persuade the UK Government to impose sanction , ban all arm sale and recognise the state of Palestine ? since come into office we have take significant action : call , of course , for a ceasefire — we have be call for a ceasefire since December 2023 ; suspend relevant arm sale , as have be set out by my right hon . friend the Minister for Development ; and increase the amount of aid to the Occupied Palestinian Territories . we be also in steadfast support of UNRWA . Israel remain an important ally . we have an important trading relationship , worth £ 6 . 1 billion last year and involve 38 , 000 british job . I be sorry ; any discussion of sanction be just not correct . I invite the Foreign Secretary to welcome the appointment of Nawaf Salam and to comment on its implication for our relationship with Lebanon and Israel and for Iran ' s influence in the region . what do he intend to do to ensure that that positive step improve our relationship with Israel , Lebanon and the country in the eastern Mediterranean ? I be very grateful for this opportunity to speak about Lebanon . the development in Lebanon over the past few day could transform the region . the appointment of a new President and a new Prime Minister could provide Lebanon with the opportunity to see Hezbollah ' s capability diminish , which the whole international community should grab hold of . as the right hon . Member know from his time in office , the UK contribution to the lebanese armed force be important and one that the lebanese treasure . we intend to continue with that and to go far over the come month , which I know he will welcome . british Council what assessment he have make of the British Council ' s financial sustainability . may I pay tribute to the hon . member for her overseas work as the British Council ' s former director of communication ? [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I understand that she be post in London , Paris , Tokyo and Shanghai . I be jealous , as my assignment in my overseas posting be rather different . the British Council ' s board of trustee be responsible for the organisation ' s financial sustainability . as an fcdo arm ' s length body , the British Council receive £ 162 . 5 million of grant in aid funding in 2024 - 25 . my noble friend , Baroness Chapman , oversee this as the Minister responsible . this contribution support the British Council ' s role as a soft power asset , promote UK art and culture , education , and the english language . Mr Speaker , may I declare another interest as the officer of the British Council all - party parliamentary group ? the british Council deliver more than £ 1 billion - worth of global impact for the UK every year . during the pandemic , it be force to close 18 country operation , none of which have since reopen . the then Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab give it an emergency loan , but set it out on commercial term . the interest on this loan be cost the British Council £ 14 million a year . will the Minister help the British Council keep deliver on the Government ' s growth , security and soft power objective and consider review the term of the council ' s loan , extend the date for begin repayment , reduce the commercial rate of interest , or redesignate the loan — order . nobody else will be able to get in . I call the Minister . minister be aware of the issue in relation to the £ 200 million . as the hon . Member say , the loan be make on commercial term in order to be compliant with the UK subsidy control regime . on 6 January , my ministerial colleague the Foreign Secretary and Baroness Chapman meet the chief executive officer of the British Council to discuss these issue . as we have already hear , the British Council be vital to the UK ' s soft power across the world . at such an important time for the promotion of our value of democracy , freedom and human right , report that the British Council may have to close 30 to 40 operation be deeply worrying . what step be the Minister take to secure the future of the British Council ' s exist programme ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his long - hold commitment on these issue . soft power be an issue of the most vital importance , particularly in this contested world . I be very pleased to confirm , as the Foreign Secretary already have , that we be establish a soft power council in the come day . that be an important initiative and the British Council will be an important part of that work . in relation to country office , the British Council retain a significant physical presence in more than 100 country , which be welcome , and have a grow presence online , which be to be encourage . Syria : religious Minorities what diplomatic step his Department be take to support the right of religious minority in Syria . I welcome the appointment of my hon . friend as the new UK special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . as part of our intensive diplomatic engagement with international partner , and indeed with the interim syrian authority , we have consistently advocate for an inclusive political transition and underline the importance of protect the right of religious and ethnic minority . I thank my hon . friend for welcome I and for his commitment and that of the Department to work with the nascent syrian Government as they seek to protect and respect religious minority . however , I be sure that he be aware that over Christmas there be attack by Hayat Tahrir al - Sham fighter on the Christian - majority town of Maaloula , and some report of attack on Alawite community . what more can he and his Department do to work with the syrian Government as they seek to build a society in which all religious community can take part without fear of religious persecution ? as the House would expect , we follow report of such incident in Syria very closely . I be discuss some of those incident with member of syrian civil society just last night , and the Foreign Secretary have raise those question directly with the interim Foreign Minister of the syrian authority . we will continue to call for all party in Syria , in this moment of transition , to do the utmost to respect the right of all religious minority across the country . minority can be protect only if there be stable and representative government in Syria . this morning I meet some member of the Syrian Democratic Council who be concerned that the call for dialogue be not inclusive and that minority be not be protect . what step can the Government take to ensure that that do not happen and that there be inclusive dialogue ? will the Government , for example , link the lifting of sanction against Syria to the action to protect minority and to the inclusion of the Syrian Democratic Council in future constitutional arrangement ? it be vital that the new Syria include representation of all its people and that all Syrians can see themselves represent in the Government that will follow . we be support an inclusive political process that must respect the right of ethnic and religious minority , and we will continue in our effort . Illegal Migration : diplomatic Steps what diplomatic step he be take with international partner to help tackle illegal migration to the UK . as I make clear in my Locarno speech on 9 January , tackle irregular migration be an fcdo priority . we regularly engage with counterpart in priority country to strengthen collaboration on tackle organise crime and to secure migrant return . the propose sanction on people smuggler be a world first , design to deter and disrupt those vile criminal and the supply chain that enable they . do my right hon . friend agree that this be an important step in smash the gang ? the sanction be the first of their kind , and we hope that other ally will follow we in go after the enablers of the gang and with the ability to issue travel ban , freeze asset and do all we can to disrupt this illegal trade . but I emphasise that alongside the sanction be the new joint unit in the Department ; the huge amount of work we have do on return , which be important and which be up by 23 % across the country ; and the work we do upstream with the official development assistance funding of £ 84 million announce as we come into government back in July . US Declaration of Independence : 250th anniversary whether he plan to celebrate the 250th anniversary of the US Declaration of Independence . I first would like to offer my deep condolence to all those affect by the dreadful wildfire we have see in California and , indeed , in relation to the terror attack we see in Las Vegas and New Orleans , where tragically we also lose a british national . I know the thought of the whole House be with the United States at this difficult time . the 250th anniversary of US independence will be a significant moment to recognise the work of generation of Americans and Britons over a quarter of a millennium to build the special relationship . we have come a long way since 1776 , and I be excite by the ambitious US plan to mark the occasion , and I look forward to celebrate our partnership and our special relationship in 2026 . I join the Minister in his opening comment . the 250th anniversary of the declaration of independence present a unique opportunity to promote cultural and historical link between Northern Ireland and the United States , because at least five signatory of the declaration have direct Ulster link . the declaration itself be print by an Ulster Scot — John Dunlap from Strabane . the great seal of the United States be design by Charles Thomson from Upperlands , and 17 of the US president can claim Ulster Scots root . however , the Government ' s introduction of an electronic travel authorisation scheme will have a devastating impact on tourism — order . the anniversary will have pass if we don ' t get to the end — come on . we learn new thing every day . I be delighted to hear about the heritage of the hon . Gentleman ' s part of the world in relation to the United States . my own family date back to the late 1700 in Pennsylvania — we be not sure which side they fight on . later , my grandfather come over during the second world war to fight alongside we against Nazi tyranny in Europe . those special relationship be part of all our community and family , and we absolutely want to celebrate they across all our country . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . we be strengthen our work abroad on the priority of the british people to deliver the Government ' s plan for change . we be the first country in the world to develop a sanction regime specifically target illegal migration . our reform will strengthen the Foreign Office role in attract investment and secure new business deal . our tough diplomacy will keep up support for Ukraine and bring stability to the middle east . I welcome the progress make by COP29 in Baku , and the Government ' s leadership on climate change . Nepal be at the sharp end of deal with climate change — late last year , there be 200 death from flood in Kathmandu . what be the Government do to support that nation , which have be a partner and a friend to the UK over many year ? my hon . friend will be pleased that we announce a £ 38 . 5 million resilience , adaption and inclusion programme so that Nepal could deal with disaster risk . that follow £ 58 . 5 million for climate - smart development over an eight - year programme . our relationship with Nepal , particularly on the climate issue , be essential and very important . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . can the Foreign Secretary explain why he be surrender the Chagos Islands and front - load payment to the Government of Mauritius to lease back a base at Diego Garcia at a cost of £ 9 billion to UK taxpayer ? if that be such a good deal , why be he so secretive about it ? I know that the shadow Foreign Secretary be new to the job , but I remind she that her Government do 10 round of negotiation on this issue and we pick it up , and that the White House , the State Department and the Pentagon believe that it be a good deal , as do the Indian Government . follow the Foreign Secretary ' s meeting in Saudi Arabia and with the new Foreign Minister of Syria over the weekend , what condition do he stipulate for the removal of sanction in Syria , and in what kind of timeframe ? the right hon . Lady raise an important issue . we will judge the new syrian Government by their action , not their word . we be , alongside ally , review sanction at the moment . I will not comment in detail on that , but we be clear that we want to see an inclusive government who prosper . we have be pleased with what we have see so far , but as have already be mention , some of what we have see on the ground have not be good . we will judge they by their action , not their word , and we will not go fast than she would expect we to . to follow up on the previous question , I be grateful to the Minister for come to the event that I host for the syrian diaspora yesterday . he will know that they be very keen to support their homeland to rebuild . will Ministers look at way to change the sanction to ensure that ordinary citizen can send back remittance to help rebuild crumble public service ? I thank my hon . friend for the question and for his long - stand work on Syria issue . I be very glad to join he and so many inspiring member of syrian civil society who be keen to make a contribution . we will do what we can to enable the new Syria to be a success and to enable syrian civil society here and across the world to play their full role in that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . there be strong evidence that Russia have seek to influence the outcome of election in Georgia , Moldova and Romania , and it may now be do so in Germany . be the Foreign Secretary confident that the current measure to track russian money and misinformation in the UK be sufficient to protect the UK from similar interference , and do he think that the role of russian money in fund UK political party should be investigate to ensure that our election remain free and fair ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware of the important work of the defend democracy taskforce , which work across Government here in the United Kingdom . we closely monitor development in other country ; we have stand alongside our european partner , include Moldova specifically , in response to these effort at interference ; and of course , we recently appoint Margaret Hodge as our illicit finance and kleptocracy champion , to tackle many of the issue the hon . Gentleman have raise in relation to money . it be now over a year since Imran Khan be imprison in Pakistan . since then , there have be report of widespread intimidation and human right abuse . can the Minister set out what step the UK Government be take to protect human right , democracy and the rule of law in Pakistan ? the UK Government consistently urge pakistani authority to act in line with their international obligation and respect fundamental freedom and human right . I raise these issue during my visit to Pakistan in November and in my statement to the House on 28 November . we issue a further statement on 23 December about the role of military court . we have make it clear that the UK support individual ' right to freedom of assembly and expression , and we will continue to do so . why be the Government act with such dispatch to secure the agreement with Mauritius ? what be the rush ? as I have say in the House on many occasion , there be no rush . [ interruption . ] no , it be a fact that negotiation on this issue be go on for two year under the previous Government , with 10 round of fail negotiation . we have secure a deal that be in all of our interest and , crucially , secure our base and our national security interest and those of our ally on Diego Garcia . violence in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo be escalate , with both the March 23 group and Government force claim recent advance . the toll on civilian be devastating , with rise death , displacement , rape and gender - base violence . can the Minister outline how the Government be support the Angolan - lead Luanda process towards a ceasefire ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise the deeply concern ongoing conflict in eastern DRC and its devastating consequence . our humanitarian programme , which amount to £ 114 million , be deliver lifesave emergency assistance , and I can reassure she that Lord Collins have meet with the leader of DRC and Rwanda to urge they to engage in good faith in the Luanda process , to bring an end to the horrific fighting . I call the Father of the House . leave aside whether it be wise to spend £ 9 billion on give away what be already yours , give that the Trump Administration be now less than a week away , would it not be wise to wait another week , pause these negotiation , have a quiet word with the incoming American Secretary of State , and then work out what be in our interest and those of our close ally ? I simply refer the right hon . gentleman to the answer we have give previously on this issue . there be strong support from across the US national security apparatus — from the State Department , from the White House and from the Pentagon . we be convinced that this be a deal that have protection in it to protect our national security and that of our ally , most importantly the United States . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests regard my recent trip to Kosovo . while I be in Kosovo , I meet the President and the Prime Minister , who be seriously concern about incursion across their northern border , where Kosovo Force troop be base between Kosovo and Serbia . can minister please provide a progress update as to the bilateral security agreement between Kosovo and the United Kingdom ? that peace be hard - won and must be retain . my hon . friend be absolutely right about our historical role and responsibility in relation to Kosovo . KFOR make a vital contribution to maintain a safe and secure environment in Kosovo , and of course UK troop play a key part in that . we engage very closely with our partner in Kosovo and across the region , and continue to urge Serbia and Kosovo to engage constructively in the EU - facilitate dialogue . in recent month , I have speak to both Prime Minister Kurti and Foreign Minister Đ uri ć of Serbia . Wimbledon have one of the large korean population in the UK , and there be widespread concern in the community about the ongoing situation in South Korea . can the Foreign Secretary tell the House what communication , if any , the Government have have with act President Choi or suspend President Yoon concern the current situation ? the UK Government have be in touch with the South Koreans , our great friend , and we continue to support the arrangement there , any democratic move towards stability and the ongoing relationship with the UK . the israeli Government have state that Israel ' s presence in the Golan height buffer zone be defensive , limited and temporary . give that the israeli Cabinet have recently approve a financial package to increase the number of illegal settlement in the Golan height , what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the veracity of Israel ' s statement ? my hon . friend will be pleased that I raise this issue directly with the israeli Foreign Minister yesterday . he want to emphasise that this be a temporary measure in Israel ' s national interest , and I emphasise that the syrian Foreign Minister have make it clear to I that the Syrians stand by the 1974 commitment and do not want to seek any escalation with their israeli neighbour . Tower Hamlets planning officer have reject China ' s application to build a super - embassy there , but rather than put this through the appeal process that anyone else would have to go through , the Foreign Secretary have get the Deputy Prime Minister to call in that application . my question to the Foreign Secretary be : why the special treatment ? do he not realise how dodgy it be go to look if she do finally decide for China ? I have to say to the hon . Gentleman that all due process have be follow in the normal way . this be the same as any planning application , and the implication of what he have just say in relation to the Deputy Prime Minister be quite unsavoury . will the Foreign Secretary update we on the representation that he and the Prime Minister have make to the President of Egypt to secure the release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah ? his mother Laila , who be with we in the Gallery today , have go beyond 100 day on hunger strike , and we be desperate to secure the release of Alaa . I be very grateful to my right hon . friend for raise this issue . the Prime Minister write to President Sisi on 26 December and 8 January . the National Security Adviser , Jonathan Powell , be in Egypt on 2 January , and I meet the egyptian Foreign Minister in Saudi Arabia on Sunday . this remain our no . 1 issue . we have raise it on every single occasion , and we continue to press for clemency , for understanding and for Alaa ' s release . the official readout from " operation kowtow " , the Chancellor ' s mission to Beijing , say that she " urge China to cease its support for Russia ' s defence industrial base , which be enable Russia to maintain its illegal war against Ukraine . " do the Chancellor elicit any such assurance , and if not , what do it mean for the Foreign Secretary ' s suppose reset of relation with the people of the Great Hall ? can I just remind the hon . Gentleman that it be our last Foreign Secretary who have a pint with President Xi ? the Chancellor of the Exchequer , as she be able to outline , be able to raise all the issue — Jimmy Lai , the security law in Hong Kong , Xinjiang and a whole range of other — but we be only able to do that by engagement . friend in Gaza and across the middle east , together with many of we here , be all hope and pray that a ceasefire will happen this time . do the Secretary of State agree that the Palestinians of Gaza must be able to move freely to return to their home , or what be leave of they , regardless of whether they be currently in Gaza or have flee elsewhere ? in the event of a ceasefire , will the UK convene an international meeting on Gaza ' s reconstruction ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for continue to press these issue . it be very important to be in Israel yesterday to talk about what may come when we get that ceasefire , and about the role that the UK of course want to play both in ensure Israel ' s security and in work with other partner to ensure reconstruction . the right of woman in Afghanistan have be under systematic assault since the Taliban ' s return to power in 2021 , and woman have be all but entirely exclude from public life . they be bar from attend school and university , and in many area they can not leave their home without a male guardian present . what pressure be the UK Government put on the Taliban to ensure that woman and girl can go back to school ? I agree with the hon . Lady . we be deeply concerned by the appalling erosion of the right of woman and girl in Afghanistan , and we be seek to use every avenue to exert pressure . I remind the House that on 9 January I announce that the UK have formally join the list of country pledge political support to the initiative to refer Afghanistan to the International Court of Justice for violation of the convention on the elimination of all form of discrimination against woman . will Ministers update the House on the implementation of the advisory opinion from the ICJ on the occupied Palestinian Territories , particularly in relation to the consequence for the UK and other nation state ? we continue to consider the advisory opinion of the ICJ carefully . it be a far - reach opinion that take month in the production , and we hope to be able to report back soon . follow up on the case of Alaa Abd el - Fattah in Egypt , will the Secretary of State say when he expect a substantial response to his engagement with the egyptian Government ? will he confirm that he will not travel to Egypt unless he be confident that he can return with Alaa ? our relationship with Egypt be multifacete . today , this House have discuss the hope of a hostage deal , and the hon . Lady will understand the importance that the Egyptians play in that . as I say , I raise this issue on Sunday . I raise it on 20 December . I have press for Alaa ' s release , and we will continue to do all we can , include the Prime Minister and the National Security Adviser . in the end , this be in the hand of the Egyptians . Turkey have increasingly be threaten intervention beyond Syria . it have give shelter to Hamas and have announce a new programme to develop long - range weapon . as a fellow NATO ally , how will the Government work with Ankara to secure peace and stability in the middle east ? I meet my opposite number in Saudi Arabia at the weekend to discuss the issue in north - east Syria . he of course raise his long - stand concern about kurdish group in the north - east , and I make it clear , along with many ally , that we do not want to see further escalation in Syria at this time . we continue to be in dialogue with a very close NATO ally . the Minister keep tell the House that negotiation with Mauritius have be go on for two year . will he explain to the House why he be so reluctant to extend those negotiation by just one week until the Trump Administration take office ? they may take a very different view of the negotiation from that of the Biden Administration . I simply refer the right hon . gentleman to the answer I have give repeatedly . this deal be in the interest of the United Kingdom and in the interest of the United States , and it have be support by all part of the United States Administration . there be no rush . there be ongoing discussion , but we be not go to give a run commentary . my constituent Jagtar Singh Johal have be in arbitrary detention in India for more than seven year . the Secretary of State and his ministerial team have be extremely generous with their time and assistance to help resolve the situation , but can I seek the Minister ' s assurance that those effort be ongoing ? minister have engage frankly with counterpart in India on Mr Johal ' s case , push for fast progress towards a resolution , include the call for an investigation into allegation of torture by the authority . the Government be right to continue the all - party approach to the next International Development Association replenishment of the World Bank , which be extremely good value for taxpayer money . will the Foreign Secretary press the Treasury to match what the former Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , do in add £ 2 . 5 billion to the 0 . 5 % official development assistance budget , to help defray some of the cost of first - year asylum seeker , which that budget bear ? otherwise , we will be spend more development money in UK postal district than in Africa . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise this issue . he understand deeply that under conservative Governments , we see those so - call in - donor refugee cost spiral out of control . the system be not be bring under any kind of coherent plan by previous government . now there be a plan , which be be deliver by the Home Secretary . we be determined to ensure that those cost be bring down . the Foreign Secretary have rightly impose widespread sanction on Russia for its war crime . early , he respond on the subject of sanction on Israel by refer to the fact that talk of war crime be incorrect because of the value of trade and Israel ' s historic status as an ally . surely a war crime be a war crime , whoever commit it . all life be equal and international law be international law . I invite the Foreign Secretary to explain to the House the difference of approach between war crime commit by Russia and war crime commit by Israel . we be on the brink , we hope , of a ceasefire deal . it be important to be in Israel yesterday , and I remind the hon . Gentleman that this be one of the tough region in the world . I remind he of the malign effect of Iran , just next door . Hezbollah have be diminish , but they be still there . Hamas have be diminish , but they be still there . I have to say that it be not right to comment on sanction and proscription , but we be talk about an ally . I welcome the Minister ' s early comment that the future of Greenland be a matter for the people of Greenland , but will he commit in the way that France and Germany have to defend Greenland ' s territorial integrity against any hostile action ? I meet the Foreign Minister of Greenland yesterday , which be the second time I have meet she in the past four month . we discuss a range of issue , include security in the Arctic , our partnership , our trade partnership and our close engagement on a number of matter , include climate change , science and other area . our partnership with Greenland be strong , as be our partnership with Denmark . I refer the hon . member to the comment I make on Greenland ' s future , which be a matter for the people of Greenland and the people of the Kingdom of Denmark . we have million shoehorn into a confine prison , hundred of community destroy , thousand of people indiscriminately kill and lifesave humanitarian aid be block . will the Foreign Secretary show consistency , judge Israel on its action and at last define what Netanyahu ' s apartheid regime be do to Palestinians as a genocide ? we have set out our position on the designation of genocide , so I will not enter into that discussion again , but I will respond to my hon . friend on the question of aid access , on which a ministerial colleague have speak already and on which we have be consistent . we be clear that not enough aid be get into Gaza , and we have be clear with the israeli Government on our difference on the conduct of hostility and of aid access . do the Government deny that incoming President Trump be deeply hostile to the propose Chagos Islands giveaway ? the right hon . Gentleman will understand that we have support across the United States Administration , include from the Pentagon , the State Department , the agency and the White House . we be confident that as the detail of the deal be provide in the proper way — one Administration at a time , as he well know — the new Administration will recognise that this important deal protect our security and that of the United States , as well as the unimpeded operation of the base on Diego Garcia , which have be our primary objective throughout this process . drone : high - security Prisons ( Urgent question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Justice if she will make a statement on the national security risk of drone be use to deliver weapon to high - security prison . this be not a new issue . effective prison security be fundamental to the rehabilitative nature of prison and ensure public confidence in the criminal justice system . the availability of illicit item in our jail , include drug and mobile phone , undermine prison officer ' ability to do their job . drone sighting around prison in England and Wales be a matter of great concern and pose a major threat to prison security . the Government inherit a prison system in crisis , with violence and drug use on the rise . we be work hard to deter , detect and disrupt the use of drone . it be not possible to talk in detail of the tactic we use to disrupt drone , give the obvious security implication . what I can say be that his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service invest in target countermeasure such as improvement to window , netting and grille to stop drone from successfully deliver cargo such as drug and weapon . in January 2024 , restrict fly zone be introduce around all closed prison and young offender institution , support police and prison staff to disrupt illegal drone use . ultimately , it be crucial that we tackle demand . almost half of people enter prison have a drug problem , so we must get they into the right treatment to tackle the drug misuse that be so often a driver of their reoffending . contraband supply and the illicit economy drive violence , self - harm and instability , and prevent offender from engage in rehabilitative activity . we be work to crack down on the level of violence and drug in our prison . the illicit economy be unfortunately highly profitable , with price for drug and other commodity between 10 and 100 time their street value — an a4 sheet of paper lace with drug can be worth £ 1 , 000 — so we must tackle the organise crime gang behind it . that be why we have invest in a dedicated serious and organised crime unit who will work with law enforcement agency to disrupt these sophisticated criminal network . we will continue to take a multifaceted approach to drone and the disruption that they cause to our prison system . give that this be a question of national security , I find it astonish that the Lord Chancellor can not be bother to turn up to the House today . yesterday — [ interruption . ] order . we do not need any more of that . thank you , Mr Speaker . yesterday , the chief inspector of prison warn that the police and prison service have " cede the airspace " above two high - security prison to organise crime group . the result be that organise crime gang can deliver drug , phone and weapon such as zombie knife to inmate with impunity due to the absence of basic security measure such as functional CCTV , protective netting and window repair . across two visit in September and October , he describe a damn picture of thrive illicit economy that jeopardise the safety of dedicated prison staff . in HMP Manchester , almost four in 10 prisoner have test positive in mandatory drug test , and in HMP Long Lartin the figure be nearly three in 10 . those two prison hold some of the most dangerous man in our country , include murderer and terrorist . if organised crime gang can deliver phone and drug to inmate ' cell , they could be deliver serious weapon and explosive as well . the chief inspector say that the potential for escape or hostage taking be of enormous concern . this could not be more serious . the situation have become , in his word , " a threat to national security . " I do not pretend that these problem be entirely new , but they have deteriorate and they need urgent action . will the Minister provide the timeframe for fix the most basic security measure ? what visit have the Lord Chancellor make to HMP Manchester and HMP Long Lartin ? if she have not visit , when do she intend to go ? little else could be more pressing . what discussion have she hold with the prison governor ? will the Minister assure the House that the Government have confidence in the senior management to restore order ? do he agree with the chief inspector that the failure to grip the situation be a serious indictment of the Department ? who have 14 year to grip this situation ? at least this Government be take action — [ interruption . ] order . this government be take action in the first six month . the right hon . Member will know that drone sighting around prison increase by over 770 % between 2019 and 2023 — on his government ' s watch . much like everything in our prison , his Government have leave it to we to fix the broken system and clean up their mess . it be a bit rich for he to come here and lecture we when he have 14 year to put this right . we be instal new CCTV system , netting and other countermeasure to combat drone . we have clamp down on the contraband that fuel violence behind bar . we be tackle drone through a cross - Government approach , as well as learn from our international counterpart to support our effort . we be work with our five Eyes partner — they face the same issue across their prison estate , because this be not a UK problem but a global problem — along with the Home Office and the Ministry of Defence . we have 99 x - ray body scanner in 96 prison , provide full coverage of the closed adult male estate , to prevent the internal smuggling of illicit contraband . we be take action while the opposition just spout . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the Minister will no doubt be pleased that the Justice Committee have just announce an inquiry into drug in prison , with an emphasis on the use of drone by organise crime gang to supply inmate . what make it easy for drone to access prison be the appalling state of prison maintenance . there be a £ 1 . 8 billion backlog , which do not accrue in the past six month . the shadow Secretary of State ' s surprise be , in itself , surprising . what be the timetable for repair the problem in prison and get to grip with that maintenance backlog ? my hon . friend be completely right that the prison maintenance programme that we inherit be in a state . that be why the Chancellor announce in the Budget a £ 500 million boost to the prison maintenance budget over the next couple of year . that be important . he be right also to say that we need to grip this , which be why the Prisons Minister in the other place have visit Manchester and be regularly update on the situation there . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the word that be miss from the shadow Justice Secretary ' s question just now be " sorry " . a National Audit Office report say of the then Conservative Treasury ' s investment in prison maintenance and security that " capital budget allocation for prison have be well below the level need . " who be a Treasury Minister at that time ? none other than the shadow Justice Secretary . today ' s report be the late chapter in a catalogue of Tory prison failure that scupper their mission to reduce reoffende , and therefore let down victim of crime . will the Minister tell we about a new approach to well empower governor with the investment and the autonomy need to properly invest in prison maintenance and security ? what investment will he make in prison officer recruitment through programme such as Unlocked Graduates , which be critical to help drive security in our prison ? the hon . member be right about the failure miss in the shadow Minister ' s question . he be also right to ask what the Government be do to support prison officer and prison governor . we be invest in that , and we will announce a new programme for training and develop new governor very shortly . I thank the Minister for his statement . the Conservatives be do another faux outrage , as they be the one who cede the airspace after 14 year of colossal failure in our justice system . what lesson can we learn from that failure so that we tackle the problem of drug in prison , which be a big driver of drone drop ? the lesson be that we need to work with prison governor and the police and invest in action to deal with the problem . that be exactly what we be do . we be work with everybody in the system to sort this mess out . apart from the serious security concern that this activity raise , it show that prison bring resource pressure for local police force . in West Suffolk , where Highpoint prison be due to grow significantly in the year ahead , the police have ask I to ask the Minister to ensure they receive additional funding to reflect that pressure . will he do so ? the hon . member be right that it be important that local police force work strongly with HM Prison and Probation Service on this issue . that be what be happen . he will know that funding , both locally and nationally , be deal with in an appropriate way . the Prison Officers ' Association have be say for the past five year that the threat of drone destabilise our prison and pose a massive security risk . let I draw the Minister ' s attention to the anti - drone system at HMP Guernsey , which very effectively prevent that threat . can we expect this new system to be implement in all prison in England and Wales ? anything that work will be build upon — that be part of it . drone technology have be accelerate through the Ukraine war . we know that we need to work very hard to keep ahead of the felon on this . we all appreciate the destructive impact of drug in our prison . in Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge , we have the large cluster of prison in the United Kingdom , with HMP Featherstone , HMP Oakwood and Brinsford young offender institution . prison officer do an amazing job try to tackle this issue , but what specific measure can the Minister bring forward to support their work , to try to ensure that prisoner ultimately get on to the path of rehabilitation and kick the habit of drug ? the right hon . member be right that prison officer do an outstanding job . I want to take the opportunity to commend the work of prison officer up and down this country . eighty prison now have incentivise substance - free living unit , provide a supportive environment for prisoner who commit to live drug - free , with regular drug test and incentive . that project appear to be work . there have be a long - stand issue at Wandsworth prison in my constituency , which have multiple drone drop every single week . give the lack of CCTV , no netting and high staff vacancy , little can be do to combat they . follow the announcement of a £ 100 million investment into the prison , will the Minister please ensure that all these issue be address and ameliorate ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need to work hard to address these issue , but if there be a simple solution , the previous Administration would have wave that magic wand and we would not be sit here today . it be important that the ongoing work of prison governor , support by hmpps across the country and by Ministers , get to the bottom of this and sort thing out , which be what we be try to do . LiveLink Aerospace in my constituency be a surveillance company that have create a technology that be be use on Royal Navy ship , in airport and on private yacht . this technology could be crucial to maintain the no - fly zone above prison , which be introduce in January last year . will the Minister explore this technology ? will he come to my constituency to visit LiveLink Aerospace and see what the technology can do ? it be important that we take advantage of what intelligence be out there . if the hon . Lady write to I , I will be happy to follow that up appropriately with she and the business involve . do the Minister agree that the conservative party leave our prison in crisis , with drug and drone use rife ? will he outline the urgent step that his Government be take to ensure that such colossal failure can never happen again ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we inherit a prison estate that be 99 . 7 % full . the police and the court be in danger of not be able to lock people up . that be an abrogation of duty by the conservative party . we have roll up our sleeve and tackle that , and we will tackle this problem as well . I thank the Minister for a very positive recent meeting on an unrelated subject . be the main problem here the detection of the incoming drone , or the ability to impede the delivery once they have be detect ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for the positive meeting I have recently with he , official and the local business . the answer to his question be that both those thing be issue . on visit the three prison in the Sheppey prison cluster in my constituency , it be clear to see how the prison estate have be degrade over the past 14 year . I have talk to prison officer , who be my constituent , as well as work in the constituency , about the problem they face day in , day out . it take more than a few sign say " no drone " to stop those drone . what be the Minister do to listen to prison officer and the Prison Officers Association , and to support they in tackle this ? those officer face threat and pressure from organised crime . will he meet I to discuss this far ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend ; if he could drop I a note to remind I , I will do that . this week , the Prisons Minister be meet official from the Prison Officers Association . whenever I visit prison , as I do regularly , I meet the Prison Officers Association representative in that prison . they be key partner in tackle the problem that we have inherit from the previous Government . high - security prison ensure that our national security be not compromise , because they house some of the most dangerous threat to our society . in government , the Conservatives introduce legislation to make it an automatic offence to fly drone within 400 metre of any closed prison . what assurance can the Minister give this House that those who commit such offence will feel the full force of the law ? that important action take by the previous Government be , quite correctly , support by Labour in opposition . when anybody be find guilty of fly a detect drone , the appropriate prosecution will follow . the Welsh Affairs Committee recently visit Parc Prison in Wales , where we see the type of contraband be smuggle into prison by drone . one of the big problem report to we be multiple drone come in at the same time ; it be difficult for the security team to then bring they down , even though they be use CCTV . what be the Minister do to outlaw the use of those drone , to keep our prisoner safe and secure ? the security and safety of prisoner and prison officer be very important . the Prisons Minister and the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , sit to my right , recently visit Parc Prison , and be well aware of the issue . they be work with the prison authority to address they . two month ago in the House , I raise concern that HMP Garth have be liken to an airport because of the number of drone illegally fly drug into the prison . in response , the Lord Chancellor tell I that the Prisons Minister be meet the governor and think " about how to deal with those problem " . — [ Official Report , 5 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 164 . ] what precise action have the Department take since then , and what action will the Minister take today to deal with the problem at HMP Manchester ? action be be take and thing be be do . I have mention the issue around window , and netting and bar , but frankly this be a security issue . we be up against organised crime . we will not talk publicly about the measure that we be consider , because that would not be the good way of tackle the issue . I recognise that this issue be very much relate to drug . have previously work for a homeless charity , I have see the huge amount of damage that drug can cause to people ' s life , and to their family . what be the Government do about the wide issue of drug supply , both in and out of prison ? as I have already say , it be very important that we tackle drug dependency in prison . the fact that we now have a little bit more space in prison allow more work to go on there to tackle drug dependency . we know that education and employment also help to reduce reoffende , which be why we have commit to improve prisoner ' access to not only drug support programme , but purposeful activity and employment . the Government have say time and again that they want to smash the criminal gang that illegally smuggle illegal migrant into the UK , yet the Government can not even smash the gang that smuggle drug and phone into our prison . how can my resident trust the Government to smash these gang ? the resident of Broxbourne will be well aware that for 14 year , the Government that the hon . Gentleman support fail to tackle this problem . this government be roll up our sleeve and get on with it . this be a long - stand problem , and the previous Government do not do anywhere near enough to deal with it . what they do do , when former Prime Minister Liz Truss be Lord Chancellor , be arrange for more dog to bark at drone around prison , which they assure we would work . have the Ministry of Justice do an assessment on how effective that policy be ? I think everybody agree that that policy be bark . I thank the Minister for his answer today , and for his clear commitment to make change that will make a difference . in Northern Ireland prison , contraband have be a difficult issue to get on top of . give the news today that drone be be so successfully use in the UK , there be obvious cause for concern that their use may become more prevalent . how will the Minister ensure that the step take apply equally across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and that any additional funding that be require will be allocate ? any lesson learn need to be apply across the United Kingdom , and that will happen . we need to work with our five Eyes partner to ensure that the very good action be take . Northern Ireland need to get the good of that as well . UK - China Economic and Financial Dialogue Growth be the no . 1 mission of this Labour Government . to grow the economy , we need to help great british business to export around the world , include to China , the second big economy in the world and our fourth - large trading partner . not engage be simply not an option . that be why I lead a delegation , include the Governor of the Bank of England , the chief executive of the Financial Conduct Authority and representative of some of Britain ' s large financial service firm , include HSBC , Standard Chartered and Schroders , to the 2025 UK - China economic and financial dialogue — the first of its kind since 2019 . this dialogue have deliver a set of tangible benefit to ensure that british firm have great access to the chinese market , while safeguard our national security — the first duty of any Government . in China , I meet outstanding british company , such as Brompton , Jaguar Land Rover and AstraZeneca , that will benefit from the step that we have agree . we have work to lift market access barrier across a range of good and service , particularly in the agrifood sector . on financial service , we have successfully secure new licence and quota allocation for UK firm to improve operate access in China . we agree to co - operate far , include by renew our share commitment to the UK - China stock connect scheme , first launch in 2019 , by deepen our co - operation on wealth management through a UK - China wealth connect scheme , and by progress initiative on pension and sustainable finance , deliver significant benefit for UK firm and the City of London . I be pleased that China agree to issue its first ever overseas sovereign green bond in London in 2025 , underline the UK ' s position as a global capital for high - quality sustainable finance . the UK be a global leader in financial service . there be significant opportunity to expand our presence in new market , and the tangible outcome we have deliver this week will help to deliver that . these step be part of a wide programme to make substantive progress on improve arrangement for UK exporter and investor , as reflect in new agreement on vaccine approval , fertiliser , whisky labelling , legal service , automotive and accountancy , which have set we on course for this dialogue to unlock £ 1 billion of value for the UK economy . these outcome , agree with my counterpart Vice - Premier He Lifeng , represent pragmatic co - operation in action , and support secure and resilient economic growth , because security and economic growth go hand in hand . that mean find the right way to build a stable and balanced relationship with China that be in our national interest — one that recognise the importance of co - operation in address the global issue that we face , of compete where our interest differ , and of challenge robustly whenever that be require . in Beijing and Shanghai , I be clear that while we must co - operate on area of mutual interest , we will confidently challenge on area where we disagree . I express our country ' s real economic and trade concern to the Chinese , include about trade imbalance and economic security , and I raise concern about Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine , human right , and restriction on right and freedom in Hong Kong , include the case of Jimmy Lai and the completely unjustified sanction against british parliamentarian . a key outcome of this dialogue be that we have secure China ' s commitment to improve exist channel , so that we can openly discuss sensitive issue and the way in which they impact our economy , because if we do not engage with China , we can not raise our real concern . this dialogue be just one part of our engagement with trading partner across the world . since become Chancellor , I have be to New York , Washington , Toronto and Brussels to build our global economic relationship , while my right hon . friend the Business Secretary have travel to the Gulf to boost trade and investment , and my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary be engage with partner all over the world to deliver growth that benefit people across the United Kingdom . we must continue to go far , fast , in drive economic growth to make work people well off . that be why the Prime Minister launch our artificial intelligence opportunity action plan yesterday . it throw the full weight of Government behind AI in the UK to revolutionise our public service and make our economy more productive . it be why next week I will talk to business leader , investor and entrepreneur at the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos to make the case that the UK be one of the good place in the world in which to invest . in the come week , I will set out further detail of our plan to kick - start growth in the economy after 14 year of failure from the conservative party . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . it be good to see the Chancellor in her place , and I thank she for advance sight of her statement . I know that she have be away , so let I update she on the mess that she leave behind . the pound have hit a 14 - month low ; government borrowing cost be at a 27 - year high ; growth have be kill stone dead ; inflation be rise , impact million ; interest rate be stay higher for long ; and business confidence have fall through the floor . the Labour party talk down the economy and crippled business with colossal taxis , break all their promise . this be a crisis make in Downing Street . it should hardly surprise the Chancellor that international market be uneasy . the UK ' s long - term borrowing cost have rise to their high in almost 30 year . but while the Government be lose control of the economy , where be the Chancellor ? her trip to China have not even begin when my urgent question be take in the House last week . she be still in the country , but she send the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , rather than face up to her failure . may I ask she why she choose not to respond herself ? the Chancellor , of course , duck the difficult question by jet off to Beijing . I believe that in Labour circle they be call it the Peking duck , but whatever be on the menu in China , be it really worth the unedifye sight of an increasingly desperate politician scamper halfway around the world with a begging bowl ? the Chancellor ' s deal pale in comparison to labour ' s black hole , which open up in the public finance while the right hon . Lady be absent from her station . let I give the House a sense of scale . the deal that the Chancellor have announce amount to £ 120 million a year . the rise in our borrowing cost , due to her disastrous Budget , have add about £ 12 billion to our annual spending on debt interest alone : literally 100 time what she say she have bring back from Beijing . that be money that can not now be spend on the public ' s priority . that £ 12 billion be enough to pay for 300 , 000 nurse or to cover labour ' s pernicious winter fuel payment cut for eight and a half year — and , of course , even before this late market reaction , the Budget mean spend ten of billion more on service our debt . accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s forecast , two third of the money raise from the Chancellor ' s job tax will be swallow up by additional debt interest . forget those billion go towards well public service ; they be go on pay the price of labour ' s mismanagement . we on this side of the House know how this sorry story go . we have see it all before : socialist government who think that they can tax and spend their way to prosperity ; Labour government who simply do not understand that if you tax the living daylight out of business , you will get stagnation . they do not understand because there be barely a shred of business experience on the Government Front Bench . may I ask the right hon . Lady which of her promise she will break if the OBR judge in March that she be now in breach of her own fiscal rule ? will she cancel promise spending , will she ramp up borrowing , or will she raise taxis yet again ? this whole sorry tale be nothing short of a shakespearean tragedy be play out before our eye . this be the Hamlet of our time . Labour promise the electorate much , while pour the poison into their ear . and the end — you can feel the end ; the Chancellor flailing , estranged , it seem , from those close to she ; those about she fall ; the drum beat ever close . to go , or not to go , that be now a question . the Prime Minister will be damn if he do , but he will surely be damn if he do not . the british people deserve well . the shadow Chancellor be simply not serious . I be on the Opposition side of the House for 14 year , and I think that after a statement one usually ask some question . we hear a great deal from the right hon . gentleman about what he would not do , but we hear absolutely nothing about what he would do . now we can see what happen when the Leader of the Opposition tell the shadow Cabinet that it should not have any policy . as far as I can tell , the conservative party ' s economic strategy be to say that the UK should not engage with the second large economy in the world , or indeed with our near neighbour and our big trading partner in the European Union . the right hon . Gentleman ' s economic strategy be to support high spending but none of the right decision that be require to deliver sound public finance , and his economic strategy be to ignore the mistake of the past with no apology to the british people for his part in Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget that crash the economy . I appreciate that , have say that , I may now receive a " cease and desist " letter from her later . one question that the shadow Chancellor do ask be : why do I go to China ? I go to secure tangible benefit for british business trade overseas . the right hon . Gentleman say that it be not worth it ; let he say that to the representative of HSBC , Standard Chartered , Prudential , Schroders and the London Stock Exchange who attend those meeting with I last week , all of whom have speak of the difference that it will make . I have be under no illusion about the scale of challenge that we face , after 14 year of stagnant economic growth , high debt and economic uncertainty , and we have see global economic uncertainty play out in the last week , but leadership be not about duck these challenge ; it be about rise to they . the economic headwind we face be a reminder that we should — indeed , we must — go far and fast in our plan to kick - start economic growth , which plunge under the last government , by bring stability to the public finance after year of instability under the conservative party , unlock investment that plummet under the previous Government and push ahead with essential reform to our economy and public service . that be my message to the House today , because if we get it right , the prize on offer to we — to the british people — be immense : the opportunity to make work people well off by make Britain well off . that be the mandate this Government have , and that be what we will deliver . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s commitment to growth in this country and to encourage investment in the UK . listen to the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , we would think the country be go to hell in a handcart . do my right hon . friend agree that this be no time for panic , that it be perfectly possible to manage any pressure on the Budget through astute management of public spending , and that we be a very long way from the approach take during the year of austerity under the conservative party ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for that question . I set out this Government ' s fiscal rule at the Budget in October : we will pay for day - to - day spending through tax receipt , and we will get debt down as a share of the economy . we remain committed to those fiscal rule and will meet they at all time . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Chancellor for advance sight of her statement . let we be blunt : the Budget have not work . the Chancellor say that the Government ' s no . 1 mission be growth , but to date there be no sign that the Government be go to deliver it . the national insurance contribution rise be self - defeat . it undermine growth — it do not unleash it — and it pile pressure on to struggle small business and high street . nor do it raise anything like the sum of money for the NHS that the Government initially suggest it would . now we have this much - laud visit to China , which the Government themselves say be only worth £ 600 million to the UK over the next five year . that be equivalent to just five and a half hour of NHS spending a year — 27 . 5 hour over the five - year period . all growth be welcome , but this really be small beer . what be we to make of the Chancellor ' s pledge to improve exist channel with China ? it be nothing short of warm word and mixed message . the Chancellor should not have go to China unless there be a commitment that Jimmy Lai be go to be release . do the Chancellor now accept that the national insurance increase will damage growth ? do she accept that there be and still be much fairer way to raise the necessary revenue without hold back our economy and our high street ? the international market jitter we have see in the last few day be largely cause by the threat of tariff by the new Trump Administration , so will the Chancellor guard against the risk of a trump presidency by rebuild our trading relationship with our european neighbour ? after the economic vandalism of the previous Conservative Government and their mini - Budget , our nhs and care service be still on their knee . do the Chancellor accept that wealth and health be two side of the same coin and that scale back any investment in the NHS will be not only devastating for local community but damage for economic growth ? I be slightly confuse by the hon . Lady ' s response . the Liberal Democrats oppose every decision we make to get the public finance under control at the Budget , and now they say that we need to spend more on public service . well , I be afraid they can not have it both way . the only way there be more money for our public service be by raise it , as we do in the Budget — decision that the Liberal Democrats apparently oppose . the hon . Lady say that £ 600 million be not worth it . that be £ 600 million of tangible benefit for british business trade overseas . I would have think she would welcome enhance trade and investment as a way to create more good job pay decent wage in St Albans and , indeed , in all our constituency . the hon . Lady say that we should not go to China because we need to raise difficult issue . I be not sure how she think we be go to raise difficult issue unless we engage with the second big economy in the world . because I go to China , I be able to raise issue around human right , force labour , Hong Kong and Jimmy Lai and the sanctioning of parliamentarian . we can not raise those issue unless we be in the room . I be in the room and therefore able to do just that . labour be the party that put £ 20 billion into the national health service at the Budget in October . we be able to do that because of the difficult decision we take , include on taxation . the hon . Lady seem to want the additional money for public service but without find any way to pay for they . that be the way the conservative party get into its trouble . I be afraid the Liberal Democrats be go down exactly the same path . may I thank the Chancellor for raise the case of my constituent , Jimmy Lai ? I know it will mean a lot to he and his family . do she agree that it be because of the profound difference that it be vital we maintain this strategic engagement ? I thank my hon . friend for what she have just say . on behalf of the whole House , I want to send our good wish to the family of Jimmy Lai at this difficult time . I have the opportunity to raise this as well as other issue during my time in China , and it be incredibly important that at every opportunity we have , we raise some of the difficult issue and challenge the chinese authority in a way that be appropriate and consistent with our british value . the economic and financial dialogue be stay because of the brutal imposition of the national security law in Hong Kong . when the Chancellor and the Government go back to engage and reopen that dialogue , they do so on the back of thing get bad , not well . the reality I put to she be that while she be away , Shein refuse point blank at a Select Committee hearing to answer the question of whether it have slave labour in its supply chain , but the Government want it to list here in London . we have solar array be import by the Government into the UK that demonstrably involve slave labour . can the Chancellor be clear with the House about the Government ' s position on slave labour ? can she explain whether this Government will allow any product or service , or allow company to align themselves here or import good here , that contain any slave labour , no matter how important that import be ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question ; I know how seriously he take this issue , like so many other member on both side of the House . list of company in the UK be a decision for the Financial Conduct Authority , but any company list on the London stock exchange have to live up to the responsibility set out by the United Nations and the OECD on force labour . this Government be commit to work with international partner and business to ensure that global supply chain be free from human and labour right abuse . as the right hon . Gentleman know , under section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , commercial business that operate in the UK and have a turnover of more than £ 36 million be require to report annually on the step they have take , and rightly so , because modern slavery be abhorrent , and this Government continue to take step to deal with it . first , may I remind conservative member that UK bond yield be rise for the same reason that german and french bond yield be — because they be track the US rate ? they never be very good at number . the Chancellor have set out her economic philosophy that our prosperity be build upon secure foundation in a more uncertain world . will she set out how she be build that economic security here , particularly with reference to have domestic energy , rather than be dependent on foreign fossil fuel dictator ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that economic growth have to be build on strong foundation , which be the approach of this Government . our mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower be consistent with that . if we can ween ourselves off fossil fuel and the oil of dictator , we will be more secure in our economy , because we will not have to import so much from overseas . it be good to see the Chancellor back from China and to hear her reiterate that growth be her no . 1 mission , because we have not have any growth since her Budget . give that accept responsibility be the first step in solve a problem , will she accept that last October ' s Budget have cause business confidence and growth prospect in this country ' s economy to plunge ? I think for a moment that the hon . Lady be go to apologise for Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget . maybe she will do so on another occasion . I thank the Chancellor for raise the case of Jimmy Lai . I hope that the Government will in future press the case of pension owe to british national overseas constituent in Earley and Woodley , and across the UK , who have move here from Hong Kong . I be surprised to hear the shadow Chancellor advocate knee - jerk response to inter - day movement in market price . I would argue that such short - termism lead to the conservative party have five chancellor in only four year . will the Chancellor reassure we that she will not be mislead by short - termism , and that she will instead keep her focus on our government ' s long - term ambition to raise living standard and growth ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there have be movement in international market in the past week or so , and they have be global in nature . in the UK , we must do what we can , which be why I have reiterate today my commitment to the fiscal rule that I set out in the Budget in October . I reiterate that growth be the no . 1 mission of this government : growth build on stability , which will come through secure the public finance ; through investment , include through the national wealth fund and GB Energy ; and through reform — of our planning system to make it easy to build in Britain , get people back to work , and of our pension system . this government be crack on after 14 year of failure from the conservative party . do the Communist party of China tell the Chancellor that she be do a good job or a bad job of run the UK economy when she be there ? I be not seek assurance from any foreign Government on the performance of this Government . what I be seek — I achieve this in China — be tangible output for british business trade overseas , help to create more good job that pay decent wage here in Britain . the conservative party absolutely fail to do that in 14 year . I thank the Chancellor for her statement . I particularly welcome the fact that she raise the issue of Jimmy Lai and human right in Beijing , which be really important . after 14 year of the conservative party ' s inconsistency on China , do she agree that we need a cross - whitehall strategy and a pragmatic approach ? what be really important be that we take decision in Britain ' s national interest . take decision in the national interest mean engage with our trading partner all around the world , which be why , since be appoint as Chancellor , I have be to Brussels to reset our relation with the European Union , as well as to Washington and New York to welcome investment from overseas . I have secure £ 600 million - worth of benefit for UK business do business in China . will the Chancellor of the Exchequer do what the Prime Minister refuse to do yesterday and rule out future spending cut ? I be not go to write five year ' worth of Budgets in the first six month of a Labour Government , but I be absolutely committed to meet the fiscal rule that I set out in the Budget in October . we know what happen when government lose control of the public finance : they crash the economy and end up on the Opposition Benches . the Chancellor may be able to learn a bit about emergency spending cut from the Scottish Government in Holyrood , who have have three year of emergency spending cut . do the Chancellor agree that it be essential to engage with large economy like China so that we can export our brilliant financial service sector and whisky from Scotland ? in the real world , we have to trade with large economy like China . many of the benefit that we secure last week be for the financial service sector , and both Edinburgh and Glasgow be important hub of financial service in the UK . business such as Abrdn and Standard Chartered , which be on the delegation with I , have welcome the tangible benefit , which will result in more job and more economic prosperity in Scotland and across the United Kingdom . it have be report that the Chancellor be go to meet the owner of British Steel in China . many of my constituent work at the Scunthorpe steelwork . while I appreciate that Ministers may not have reach a final decision on the steelwork , be she able to give reassurance to my constituent that she have have constructive engagement ? my right hon . friend the Business Secretary have meet Mr Li , from Jingye , on a number of occasion . talk be ongoing , but I be not able to provide an update on that today . the Chancellor have only my admiration and support for the tough decision that she be take to fix the fundamental . while Conservative Members be carp about the Chancellor ' s whereabouts this week , she be have serious discussion with the world ' s second large economy and secure access for UK firm . be it not clear that only Labour member be serious about growth ? I will always stand up for Britain ' s national and economic interest , which be why I be help some of our good business to export around the world . that be what I do in China at the weekend , and it be what I will continue to do . I will always stand up for our economic interest . have the Chancellor of the Exchequer speak to the Governor of the Bank of England about what action need to be take to bring about stability in our bond market ? I regularly speak to the Governor of the Bank of England ; indeed , he be with I on the delegation to China this weekend . we work closely together to ensure that the british economy remain competitive in global market . I be quite surprised at the audaciousness of those on the Opposition Benches . the Conservatives oversee a rise in debt level over the last 14 year , and it be a shame that they do not turn their mind to the issue early . do the Chancellor agree that serious discussion , such as the one with China , can deliver not just on our economic aim , but on our wide climate and international objective ? unless we engage and work with our partner around the world , we will miss out on the opportunity that other country secure for their business and economy . if we miss out on those investment and trade opportunity , we can be sure that other country will take advantage of they . that be why I be in China , and it be why I will work with counterpart around the world to secure good outcome for british business and job here in the United Kingdom . the Chancellor raise the issue of human right abuse in China , but do she get the opportunity to raise with her interlocutor the extrajudicial work of the United Front Work Department , particularly in relation to UK institution , especially university ? I raise a number of issue around human right abuse , labour and , indeed , right and freedom in Hong Kong , include the case of Jimmy Lai . I raise that with all the Ministers I meet in China , and I will always stand up for our value and interest . unlike the bickering in the conservative party , we be cut deal in the national interest and put Britain at the frontier — £ 600 million just over the weekend , and an AI opportunity plan just this week . do the Chancellor agree that we be the party of action and the Conservatives be the party of rhetoric ? we on the Government Benches be not go to apologise for get a good deal for british business and the people work for they . I be determined to leave no stone unturned in ensure that british business have the right and freedom to export and trade around the world , help to create good job here in Britain . UK export to China currently represent less than 10 % of the UK ' s total export , whereas our export to the EU represent over 40 % , demonstrate the great opportunity that trade with the EU make available to our small and medium enterprise . will the Chancellor commit to talk four time as much to our european partner about our trading opportunity than she have to China ? this be not either / or ; we can not write off one country and say that we be go to put all our egg in a different basket . China be our fourth big trading partner and we can not miss out on opportunity in a country that be grow quickly , with an expand middle class , where there be huge export opportunity . as the hon . Lady know , I be in Brussels in December to reset our relation — the first british Chancellor to go to a Eurogroup meeting since we leave the European Union . I be leave no stone unturned in exploit export opportunity for british business . I thank the Chancellor for her statement . can she set out in more detail how the Government intend to help reinvigorate the UK - China stock connect , so that UK company and investor can access chinese capital market and vice versa ? the stock connect be an initiative first set up by the former Conservative Chancellor Philip Hammond to improve link between the Shanghai and London stock exchange and to help chinese business to access capital on UK financial market . that be good for financial service firm operate in London , and the enhancement of that stock connect scheme at the weekend offer new opportunity for british business in financial service in the UK . as the Chancellor fly east , the pound plummet south and Government debt rocket north . why ? the market do not believe her plan for growth ; that be the fundamental issue . to pick up the question from my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , what be she go to say to the market to make they believe she really do understand how to deliver growth in the UK ? there have be global volatility in market . it be not reasonable to suggest that bond yield in the United States , Germany and France have rise because of decision make by this Government . I think the hon . member should just get real . I thank the Chancellor for her statement . in regard to raise money for public service , an annual wealth tax on the multimillionaire and billionaire class would certainly achieve that . however , that be a conversation for another day — on to China . my right hon . friend and I have have discussion regard the closure of the Grangemouth refinery , in which PetroChina — part of the chinese state - own China National Petroleum Corporation — be heavily involved . if the refinery close , thousand of job will be lose . this be not just a constituency issue for I . it will impact all of Scotland , as our fuel and national security will be severely weaken . do the Chancellor speak about the issue with her chinese counterpart , and if not , will she do so ? we be work closely with the Scottish Government to ensure that there be a bright future for the people of Grangemouth , because deindustrialisation should not be the future for community , include in Scotland . the datum in September and October show that the economy be fall . it be go down and the currency market and bond market be sell off and express their clear concern that there be no growth and that the economy continue to fall . if the Chancellor be so confident , will she confirm to the House when the economy will start grow again ? growth be the no . 1 mission of this Labour Government , but the truth be that it be not possible to turn thing around quickly after 14 year of lacklustre growth and decline living standard under the Conservatives . we be leave no stone unturned , which be why last week in China we secure £ 600 million - worth of tangible benefit for the UK economy , help great british business export overseas . do the Chancellor agree that develop our economic and trading relationship with other nation be one of many important lever ; and that , alongside that approach , public investment , plan reform and an industrial strategy — whose absence under the Conservative Government be problematic — will be return under this government so that we can see economic growth ? the good way to grow an economy be to boost investment in an economy . the truth be that , under the Conservatives , we be the only G7 economy where investment stand at less than 20 % of gdp . that be the inheritance that our party be bequeath by the Conservatives , but we be begin to turn that around through the creation of a national wealth fund to leverage in private sector investment , through plan reform to get Britain build again , and through pension reform to unlock £ 80 billion of investment to help small and start - up business to grow . we be turn thing around after 14 year of failure from the conservative party . while the Chancellor be in China secure she measly £ 600 million , borrowing rate reach the high they have be since 2008 . in 2024 she say that her Budget would be " a Budget with real ambition , a Budget to fix the foundation … a Budget to rebuild Britain . " how be that go , give that her mess have cause borrowing to be the high it have be since 2008 , make real work people in this country suffer ? I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman follow global financial market , but borrowing cost have increase for country around the world . what we see under Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget be unique to the United Kingdom , because it be only UK market that be affect by the decision of the Conservatives . it be great to see our Chancellor of the Exchequer work with international business and win investment for the UK . do she agree that while the Conservatives be happy to sell out our heavy industry to China , lead to the end of steelmaking in Teesside after 150 year , our industrial strategy be deliver investment in steel , chemical and life science in Stockton North , in Teesside and across the UK ? the national wealth fund create by this Government will get investment into industry such as carbon capture and storage , green hydrogen , port and , indeed , steel . we be really pleased at the end of last year to be able to announce investment in carbon capture and storage in Merseyside and Teesside , secure billion of pound of investment into those economy and secure many thousand of job . I thank the Chancellor for her statement . I think it be worth remind the House that under the previous Government business investment fall to 28th out of 31 OECD country , which be low than Latvia , Slovenia and Hungary . could the Chancellor set out how our industrial strategy will overcome that terrible legacy on business investment leave by the Conservatives ? one of the reason for such poor investment — the low of all the G7 economy — be that our planning system make it so hard to get anything do in this country . that be why the planning and infrastructure Bill , which be be bring forward by my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister , will turn that around , make it easy to invest in transport , in digital , in housing and in so much more . that be the way to get our economy grow after 14 year of failure . I thank the Chancellor for her statement . she go to China , New York , Washington , Toronto and Brussels to build economic relationship , yet she will not take the time to speak with the Ulster Farmers Union , the NFU , the Farmers Union of Wales or NFU Scotland to hear at first hand about the devastating impact that her death tax will have on family farm and small business . when will she realise that no matter what deal she do around the world — and I welcome they — Rome be burn around she ? agriculture be the backbone of our economy , so will she commit to meet I as a representative of the thousand of farmer whose farm be go to be decimate by her death tax ? I have have the opportunity on a couple of occasion to meet the First Minister and Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland , and I be sure that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , would be happy to meet colleague from Northern Ireland . the truth be that we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance from the Conservatives , and in order to stabilise our public finance we have to make difficult decision on taxis . at the moment we hear from the opposition that they do not like the increase in taxis but they want increase in public spending . well , they can not have it both way . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . could she elaborate far on how this visit and the discussion she have start be not only consistent with the Government ' s approach to China , but a vital part of it — co - operate where we can , compete where we need to , and challenge where we must ? this be the first economic and financial dialogue between our two country since 2019 . since then , other country around the world have continue to engage with China , secure tangible benefit for their economy . I do not want UK business and the people work in our country to miss out , which be why this weekend we secure £ 600 million - worth of tangible benefit for business that export to China , thereby help to create more good job pay decent wage in our country . I be slightly worried that investor will be watch this statement and wonder what planet the Chancellor be on . she just say that she be invest in transport infrastructure , but she be actually cut transport capital budget . she have previously say that she want only one Budget a year , and the March statement be bill only as a fiscal forecast . can she rule out any new tax rise or departmental spending cut in the March statement , or will the fiscal forecast become an emergency Budget ? we have commit to have just one Budget a year to provide business with the certainty they need to invest , so we will have an update from the Office for Budget Responsibility in March . I also give the commitment that , as I have already say , the fiscal rule mean we will balance day - to - day spending with tax receipt , and we will get debt down as a share of gdp within the forecast period . we will continue at all time to meet those fiscal rule . I congratulate the Chancellor on unlock £ 1 billion of value for the UK economy that would not have be unlocked if she have not go to China . however , do she agree that the Government ' s much - need decision to thaw UK - China relation be now reap dividend while also allow we to press China on difficult issue , include human right and labour standard ? my hon . friend be exactly right . we manage to secure tangible benefit for the UK economy and british exporter . at the same time , we be able to raise difficult issue that we would not have be able to raise if we be not engaged . that be the benefit of engagement : we get the economic gain and we can raise those tricky issue . it be beyond parody that his Majesty ' s Chancellor would throw herself at the mercy of the Chinese Government and come back with £ 600 million in revenue over five year . be she aware that £ 600 million in revenue be less than one ninetieth of HSBC ' s annual profit ? this be what she be hold up as a major achievement of the Treasury ' s trade mission . my right hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) very reasonably ask what the Chancellor will do when , not if , her fiscal rule be breach . will she increase borrowing , raise taxis or cut spending , not over five year but this year ? I be sure the hon . Gentleman be an expert in HSBC , but I would rather take the word of the chairman of HSBC , who welcome the tangible investment and , indeed , lead the financial forum that we hold in China last week . I have be really clear that we will meet the fiscal rule that I set out in the Budget , and we will do that at all time . that be the commitment I make , and it be the commitment I continue to make . will the Chancellor confirm that , for she , growth must always go hand in hand with economic security ? that be a lesson that the previous Conservative Government refuse to learn when they leave 85 % of we dependent on expensive foreign gas to heat our home this winter . this government ' s clean energy mission will mean that we be less reliant on foreign dictator for our basic energy need . that be why we be invest in carbon capture and storage and float offshore wind , and it be why we be get rid of the previous Government ' s absurd ban on onshore wind . the Chancellor refer in her statement to safeguard national security , which I welcome , but this must include energy security . yet her change to the energy profit levy , remove investment allowance and not permit new licence at a time when we be still reliant on oil and gas , not only undermine our energy security but dwarf the £ 600 million that she have bring back from China with the £ 12 billion of tax revenue that will be lose from the sector . why , rather than support our energy security , be the Chancellor turn she back on the sector , turn she back on these tax revenue and risk sell our energy security to China ? if the hon . Lady have a brief look at the document from the Office for Budget Responsibility , she will see that the change to the energy profit levy — take the tax rate up from 75 % to 78 % , the same rate as in Norway — raise money ; it do not lose money . I commend the Chancellor for her visit to advocate for our country ' s good interest , but do she agree that chinese company must not provide any support to Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and I raise such issue with my counterpart in China at the weekend . it be really important that , whenever we engage with foreign government , we also raise issue consistent with our value , include chinese company supply the russian Government with material use in Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . do the Chancellor raise any concern , or indeed do she have any concern , about the Confucius Institute , the chinese Government - back operation we see across the United Kingdom ? and what answer do she get with respect to Jimmy Lai ? when our Prime Minister meet President Xi Jinping in Rio last year , they agree that one of the point of re - engagement be that we be able to make clear our concern on a range of issue in a private way . I be not go to go into the detail of that conversation , but I raise these issue with all the chinese official I meet at the weekend . [ interruption . ] the problem be that Conservative Members , for all their chuntering , do not raise these issue because they do not even engage . my constituent , many of whom work in financial service , will have be amazed , just as I be , when the shadow Chancellor , in a fit of pique , demand that the Chancellor should come home from China to talk to he in this House , rather than stay to promote growth , increase access to the world ' s second large market and win new licence and quota allocation for financial service business . as anybody who have take the trouble to listen carefully to the Chancellor would recognise , there be more on the way . what do she think the City , and the bank that accompany she , would have prefer in the long - term interest of this country : stay in China to win for this country , or come home to satisfy the shadow Chancellor ' s fit of pique ? we just have to look at what the business have already say about the deal we manage to secure last week . there be tangible benefit for british business export to China , help to create more good job pay decent wage here in Britain . it have be welcome by business . it be a shame that the conservative party no long stand up for british business . we have an embargo on russian oil and gas . China continue to import it , and apparently Russia will be China ' s no . 1 supplier this year . do the Chancellor raise this with her counterpart on her trip to China , and what assessment have she make so that her deal do not inadvertently support the russian war effort ? as I have already say in the House today , I raise the issue of chinese company supply the russian Government . indeed , the hon . Gentleman will know that last week , alongside the United States , we increase sanction on russian oil and gas to make it hard for Putin to continue to conduct his illegal war . will the Chancellor outline how the visit be an example of ongoing dialogue with the international community , which will benefit business and resident in my constituency of Harlow ? also , while we be quote Shakespeare , do she agree that there be something rotten in the state of the conservative party — or perhaps that the conservative party be in a rotten state ? I be glad that my hon . friend have use the 50 minute of the statement to come up with such a good line . he be right that many people work in Harlow work in the financial service sector and will very much welcome the enhance licence and quota , which , incidentally , many other country and their bank already have because their government have engage with China . those be opportunity that we have miss out on in Britain for far too long because of the six year during which we fail to be involve in an economic and financial dialogue , while other government crack on and make sure they support and stand up for their national interest . notwithstanding the importance of China as a trading partner , will the Chancellor please explain what step the Government be take to address the issue of force labour link with uyghur worker in supply chain at fast fashion company such as Shein ? will the Minister provide datum on the extent of force labour in UK supply chain , especially in the garment sector ? will she also outline any action to strengthen due diligence requirement for company source from area with known human right abuse , such as Xinjiang ? as I have already set out , one of the issue I be able to raise with my counterpart in China be force labour , particularly in Xinjiang . as I say in answer to the question from the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , I have also be really clear that any company seek to list in London have to meet stringent requirement , as set out by the United Nations and the OECD , on labour supply and the treatment of worker . for the final question , I call Jim Shannon . while I welcome the UK - China economic and financial dialogue , as the Chancellor will know , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , I have repeatedly highlight in this House human right abuse in China , with regard to Uyghur Muslims , tibetan Buddhists and Christians in Hong Kong and China . how will the Government and the Chancellor make sure that safeguard for british money and good be put in place to ensure that economic engagement do not directly support those violation ? human right concern , force labour , denial of religious freedom and ongoing suppression in Xinjiang , Tibet , Hong Kong and Taiwan must be remember at all cost and in all deal with China . I thank the hon . gentleman for that thoughtful question . it be important that when we engage with China , we co - operate where we can , we compete where necessary , but we challenge whenever our value do not align . like the hon . Gentleman , I care deeply about issue of religious freedom and force labour , but that be the whole point of engage . we have to engage in the world as it be , not in the world as we would like it to be . it be through those engagement that we be able to raise even some of the most difficult issue and be very clear about the value of our great country . Community Energy ( Review ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to conduct a review of the contribution of community energy to the Government ' s Clean Power 2030 mission . the clean power mission and climate policy more generally be what bring I into politic . ensure that we have a world that be economically , ecologically and environmentally viable for future generation be one of the reason that I be privileged to stand in this House today and that many people across the Hexham constituency put their faith in I . I thank local climate group , such as the Hexham Climate Caf é , the North Tyne climate action group and sustainable Haltwhistle for their engagement and feedback on climate issue . I have always commit to work with local charity and organisation throughout my constituency as we strive to protect our climate and our planet . I also want to pay tribute to the Co - operative party for constantly raise the issue on a national level . the country be on a vital mission to achieve net zero and to combat the immediate and very real threat of climate change . it be a mission that we can and must achieve . the british people deserve low cost and secure power , with good job and a government that protect they from the long - term threat pose by climate change . I be therefore glad the Government have commit to a clean power mission by 2030 that will achieve energy security , protect bill payer , create good job and help to protect future generation from the cost of climate breakdown . to ensure that this country be on the right path to become a clean energy superpower , it be essential that we unlock the full extent of renewable energy and conduct a necessary review of the contribution of community energy to the 2030 clean power mission . for decade , energy have be produce and , crucially , own far away from this country . many constituent pay their energy bill to a company base 600 mile and an ocean away . we know our energy system be break , but for too long it have be too distant to fix . the Labour Government will do thing differently . great British Energy , own by the british people , will invest in clean energy and ensure that our community reap the benefit , not just through cheap bill that family can afford , but through new job for our young people , bring growth that will revitalise local economy . the local power plan , to be develop by Great British Energy , have the potential to facilitate that necessary drive towards community energy project , ensure funding be available to support local project that could be transformational . community energy offer a crucial opportunity of agency and empowerment within local community to develop practical and long - term energy solution . it will not only deliver key element that be essential for reach our net zero target , but encourage local generation at household and community level , reduce the need for electricity to be import into community . it be necessary for individual house to change their energy usage to make our net zero target achievable . there be opportunity for community - own power throughout the country . indeed , we know what can happen when community as a whole come together . we see the mutual support and care that constituent hold for each other . when a community have be leave behind time and again , as be the case with many in the north - east , we know how to pull together . community energy and engagement be essential for achieve the net zero transition . individual household throughout the country can engage . through both centralised generation and storage , house can be power locally , reduce demand for import from the distribution network and cut energy bill . as a leader in offshore wind power and research , the north - east be already a frontrunner in energy production , support more than 5 GW of offshore production , with a further 72 GW of potential production . my region can display leadership not only in production , but through infrastructure , and we can supply more than 130 GW of offshore power through the north - east local supply chain across all four of our nation . support the green energy transition can start in the north - east . not only be the region strongly place to deliver offshore wind in the North sea , but we be in a strong position to install and maintain the grow pipeline of heat network project that would support the supply chain in the north - east and foster highly skilled job that be vital to the region and necessary in ensure that young people in the north - east can remain there and secure high - pay work . it be essential that the resource the country have at its disposal be properly recognise . through community engagement and energy , effective solution can be tailor specifically to region and locality . community - own energy project be , however , not new . they already exist and thrive across the country , thank to the innovation and drive of individual . in that regard , I want to acknowledge and highlight the phenomenal work of Humshaugh Net Zero , its founder Herbie Newell , and David still . I thank they for their support and their commitment to deliver net zero emission by 2030 . one of my first meeting as Hexham ' s MP be in the room above the Crown Inn in Humshaugh to talk about net zero , which I highly recommend to the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) if he come up to visit . Humshaugh Net Zero have already instal a number of low - carbon technology , include solar , heat pump , battery storage , electric vehicle and biomass . its effort to launch , this year , one of the first community - base solar farm in the north - east capture my constituent ' community spirit and drive . its aim be to successfully deliver half of the parish ' s electricity demand . I believe that the work of Humshaugh Net Zero would be of valuable interest to a review of community energy , inform how to unlock community energy at scale and how to support the development of other project throughout the region and the country . it provide a strong example of community engagement and a model for how that can be achieve . launch a review will assist the Secretary of State to understand how good to support the thriving community energy scheme that already exist , as well as to set up new project that benefit new community . a review could consider how to expand the availability of funding for local project and examine how good to support community energy project , specifically those in rural area , to facilitate strong working relation with landlord and ensure that planning process receive local support and consultation . supply company could be mandate to ensure that economic power be contractually negotiate on appropriate term . a review could also identify how good to successfully expand and transform small project into large - scale project that respect local community and interest . small community project face far high financial challenge . a possible guarantee scheme could make considerable headway to successfully minimise the risk . through conduct a review , solution can be consider to tackle the two major challenge for community energy project : first , ensure that funding be available on competitive term ; and , secondly , ensure that there be support for electricity to be sell to the community to maximise project revenue . launch this vital review into community energy will support our mission to achieve net zero emission by 2030 . I be proud that throughout the Hexham constituency , local resident be already engage in effort to reduce their emission and commit to green energy to achieve that 2030 mission . in Prudhoe , the friend of Eastwoods Park and the Miners Lamp Cafe have introduce solar panel and battery storage . this have receive vital funding from Northern Powergrid , and the drive of local resident have make sure that the building can still be heat , meal can be cook and ingredient can be preserve through the local green energy supply . the Stocksfield community association have , similarly , transform the local community centre into a crisis centre . by achieve a self - sufficient energy source , the community centre can operate as a support service for local resident during emergency . not only be this a valuable asset to the local community , but it offer a cost - effective solution . as Prudhoe , Humshaugh and Stocksfield represent , community energy provide more than just energy ; it foster community collaboration and cohesion . it be clear that we need to take community power seriously . community energy be integral to our clean power mission . it be integral to ensure that cheap and affordable power be accessible to local resident across the country , and it be essential for ensure that this country utilise the valuable resource at our disposal . conduct a review of the contribution of community energy to the 2030 clean power mission be vital for identify challenge , threat and necessary solution . I look forward to a future where my home and the home of my constituent can be power by green energy build and generate in the north - east . question put and agree to . order , that Joe Morris , Emma Foody , Mark Ferguson , Ms Polly Billington , Maya Ellis , James Naish , Torcuil Crichton and Dr Simon Opher present the Bill . Joe Morris accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 159 ) . renter ' right Bill consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 13 - prohibition of rent in advance after lease enter into ( except initial rent ) " in the 1988 Act , after section 4A ( insert by section 1 of this Act ) insert — ' 4b Assured tenancy : prohibition of rent in advance ( except initial rent ) ( 1 ) term of an assured tenancy which provide for when rent be due be of no effect so far as they provide for rent to be due in advance . ( 2 ) but subsection ( 1 ) do not apply — ( a ) to an excepted tenancy , or ( b ) to term of any other assure tenancy so far as they provide for initial rent to be due during the permit pre - tenancy period . ( 3 ) where term of an assure tenancy provide for when the rent for a rent period be due be of no effect by virtue of this section , the tenancy have effect as if it provide for the rent for that rent period to be due on the substitute rent day for that rent period . ( 4 ) in a case where the term of the tenancy ( after take account of section 4A ) be such that — ( a ) one or more of the period of the tenancy will be compliant rent period , and ( b ) the compliant rent period have a regular pattern , the regular rent day which fall during a rent period be the " substitute rent day " for the rent period . ( 5 ) in any other case , the first day of a rent period be the " substitute rent day " for the rent period . ( 6 ) the compliant rent period of a tenancy " have a regular pattern " if those period meet the follow two condition — ( a ) all of the compliant rent period will be the same length ( and , for this purpose , all period of one month be the same length ) ; ( b ) the rent for all of the compliant period will be due — ( i ) on the same day during each of the period ( such as the same day of the week in a weekly period or the same date in the month in a monthly period ) , or ( ii ) on the same description of day during each of the period ( such as the last day , or first weekday , of a period ) ; and that day , or day of that description , be the " regular rent day " . ( 7 ) the condition in subsection ( 6 ) ( a ) be meet even if the first period of the tenancy be of a different length from all the other compliant period ; and , in such a case , the condition in subsection ( 6 ) ( b ) be meet even if the rent for the first period of the tenancy be due on a different day , or description of day , from all the other compliant period . ( 8 ) for provision enable a hold deposit to be use to pay initial rent due during the permit pre - tenancy period , see Schedule 2 to the Tenant Fees Act 2019 . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , amend this section for the purpose of make provision about the description of rent due in advance to which subsection ( 1 ) do not apply . ( 10 ) regulation under subsection ( 9 ) — ( a ) may make different provision for different purpose ; ( b ) be to be make by statutory instrument . ( 11 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 9 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 12 ) in this paragraph — " compliant rent period " : a rent period be a compliant rent period if the rent for the period be due during the period — and , in determine this , the effect of this section on when rent be due must be disregard ; " due in advance " , in relation to rent , mean due before the rent period for which it be payable ; " excepted tenancy " mean — ( a ) an assured tenancy of social housing ( within the meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 ) if the landlord be a private register provider of social housing ; ( b ) an assure tenancy grant pursuant to Part 7 of the Housing Act 1996 ( homelessness ) ; " initial rent " mean rent that be payable for — ( a ) the first rent period , or ( b ) any later rent period which end during the initial 28 day period ; and here " initial 28 day period " mean the period of 28 day begin with the first day of the first rent period ; " permit pre - tenancy period " mean the period that — ( a ) begin when the tenancy be enter into , and ( b ) end with the day before the first day of the tenancy ; " regular rent day " have the meaning give in subsection ( 6 ) ( b ) ; " rent period " mean a period for which rent be payable under the assured tenancy ; " substitute rent day " mean the day determine in accordance with subsection ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) . " ' — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this modify the term of an assured tenancy to disapply term which provide for rent to be due in advance , unless it be rent for the first rent period , or a subsequent rent period end within the first 28 day of the tenancy , and be due between the tenancy be enter into and the term of the tenancy beginning . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 14 — prohibition of rent in advance before lease enter into . government new clause 15 — Guarantor not liable for rent payable after tenant ' s death . government new clause 16 — Limitation on obligation to pay removal expense . new clause 1 — Limit on rent to be request in advance of tenancy — " in the 1988 Act , after section 14zb ( insert by section 8 of this Act ) insert — " 14zba Maximum rent to be pay in advance no rent may be request or receive in advance of any period of the tenancy which exceed the rent for two month of the tenancy . " " this new clause would prohibit landlord from request or accept more than two month ' s rent in advance . new clause 2 — Impact of Act on provision of short - term let — " the Secretary of State must , within two year of the passing of this Act , publish a review of the impact of section 1 to 3 on the number of landlord offer property on short - term let rather than in the private rent sector . " new clause 3 — Limit on rent in advance of tenancy — " in Schedule 1 to the Tenant Fees Act 2019 , after paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) but if the amount of rent payable in advance of any period of the tenancy exceed the equivalent of one month ' s rent , the amount of the excess be a prohibit payment . " " this new clause would make it unlawful for a landlord to demand or accept more than one month ' s rent in advance in respect of a tenancy or licence of residential accommodation . new clause 4 — signature of lease for student accommodation — " where a tenant meet the student test set out in paragraph 10 of Schedule 1 , the relevant tenancy agreement may not be sign before 1 March in the year in which the tenancy be intend to take effect . " this new clause would prevent student lease be sign before March in the year in which they be intend to commence . new clause 5 — Review of tenancy deposit scheme and requirement — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , conduct a review of tenancy deposit scheme and tenancy deposit requirement . ( 2 ) the review must include , but not be limit to — ( a ) consideration of option for tenancy " passporting " ; and ( b ) measure to improve trust in the deposit dispute process . ( 3 ) as part of the review the Secretary of State must consult with such party as they see fit , which must include representative of tenant ' and landlord ' interest . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State , within 12 month of the Act pass , to review and consult on tenancy deposit scheme and requirement . new clause 6 — duty of local authority : care leaver — " ( 1 ) where it be request of a local housing authority by , or on behalf of — ( a ) a relevant child as define by section 23a of the Children Act 1989 , or ( b ) a former relevant child as define by section 23c of the Children Act 1989 , the local housing authority shall provide assistance to the individual make the request , or the individual on whose behalf the request be make , in pay or guarantee any deposit require to agree a tenancy . ( 2 ) the assistance to be provide under subsection ( 1 ) may include , but not be limit to , the payment of a deposit on behalf of an individual list in subsection ( 1 ) , or act as a guarantor for any deposit pay by or on behalf of an individual list in subsection ( 1 ) . " this new clause would place a duty on local authority to help care leaver pay or guarantee any required deposit to enable they to agree a tenancy in the private rent sector . new clause 7 — Rules for propose rent level — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must establish a body to be know as the Independent Living Rent Body . ( 2 ) the " propose rent " refer to in section 55 ( 2 ) must be calculate with reference to rule set by the Independent Living Rent Body . ( 3 ) in set rule to be apply to the calculation of a propose rent under section 55 ( 2 ) the Independent Living Rent Body will have regard to property type , size and condition , location , local income , and such other criterion as it see fit . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to establish an independent body that would set rule to be use when calculate the propose rent payable in relation to an advertise tenancy . new clause 8 — mediated rent pause ( housing condition ) — " ( 1 ) this section apply where – ( a ) there be a tenancy to which section 9a of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 apply ; ( b ) it appear to the tenant that the landlord have breach the covenant imply by that section ; and ( c ) it appear to the tenant that the landlord have fail to carry out work necessary to remedy any such breach within the timeframe set out in regulation make by the Secretary of State under section 10a ( 3 ) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 . ( 2 ) a tenant be entitle to make arrangement to pay rent to an independent individual , rather than to the relevant landlord . ( 3 ) the independent individual shall not pass any rent pay under subsection ( 2 ) to the landlord until there have be a determination or agreement between the landlord and tenant as to the landlord ' s liability for any breach of the covenant imply by section 9a of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 . ( 4 ) where a determination or agreement under subsection ( 3 ) set a time by which work be to be complete , the independent individual will – ( a ) release any rent pay under subsection ( 2 ) to the landlord if the work be complete by that time ; ( b ) release any rent pay under subsection ( 2 ) back to the tenant if the work have not be complete by that time . ( 5 ) in this section an " independent individual " mean the independent individual responsible for investigate complaint make against member of a landlord redress scheme under section 62 . " new clause 9 — home adaptation — " ( 1 ) the Housing Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 16 insert — " 16a home adaptation ( 1 ) it be an imply term of every assure tenancy to which this section apply that a landlord shall give permission for adaptation where a local council have carry out a Home Assessment and recommend adaptation which constitute reasonable adjustment under the Equality Act 2010 . tenant have the right to appeal a landlord ' s refusal to adapt a property . ( 2 ) this section apply to every assure tenancy other than a tenancy of social housing , within the meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 . " " this new clause would ensure that landlord give permission for home adaptation for people who have disability where a Home Assessment have be carry out . new clause 10 — Guarantor to have no further liability follow death of tenant — " ( 1 ) subject to subsection ( 3 ) , a guarantee agreement relate to a relevant tenancy cease to have effect upon the death of a relevant tenant . ( 2 ) upon the death of a relevant tenant the guarantor in respect of a relevant tenancy shall incur no further liability in relation to matter arise under the tenancy . ( 3 ) nothing in this section shall affect the liability of a guarantor in relation to matter which arise before the date of the death of the relevant tenant . ( 4 ) in assess any liability under subsection ( 3 ) , account shall be take of any tenancy deposit pay in respect of the tenancy . ( 5 ) where there be more than one relevant tenant , this section shall apply only upon the death of both or all of the tenant . ( 6 ) in this section — " guarantor " be a person who enter into a guarantee agreement in relation to a relevant tenancy ; " guarantee agreement " be a contractual promise ( whether incorporate in or separate from the tenancy agreement ) to indemnify or compensate a relevant person in respect of an obligation under the tenancy if the tenant fail to perform or comply with the obligation ; " relevant tenancy " have the same meaning as in section 41 , and " relevant tenant " be to be interpret accordingly ; and " tenancy deposit " have the same meaning as in section 212 ( 8 ) of the Housing Act 2004 . " new clause 11 — restriction on the requirement for tenant to provide a guarantor — " ( 1 ) a relevant person must not , in any of the circumstance set out in subsection ( 3 ) , require a person , as a condition of the grant of a relevant tenancy , to provide a guarantor in relation to the observance or performance of the tenant ' s obligation under the tenancy . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this Act , require a person to provide a guarantor include accept an offer by that person to provide a guarantor . ( 3 ) the circumstance be – ( a ) that the person have pay a tenancy deposit or have be assist under a deposit scheme ; ( b ) that the person be require to pay rent in advance equivalent to one month ' s rent or more ; ( c ) that on a reasonable assessment of their mean the person ' s income ( include state benefit receive and any other lawful source of income ) be sufficient to enable they to pay the full rent due under the tenancy ; ( d ) that arrangement will be make for housing benefit or the housing element of universal credit to be pay directly in respect of rent to the relevant person ; ( e ) that the relevant person have enter into a contract of insurance under which they be insure against non - payment of rent ; or ( f ) such other circumstance as may be prescribe in regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) in any other case where a relevant person lawfully require a person , as a condition of the grant of a relevant tenancy , to provide a guarantor , the sum for which the guarantor may become liable under the relevant guarantee shall not exceed a sum equal to six month ' rent . ( 5 ) in any case where a relevant person require a tenant , as a condition of the grant of a relevant joint tenancy , to provide a guarantor , the sum claim under the guarantee shall not exceed such proportion of the loss as be attributable to the act or default of the individual tenant on whose behalf the guarantee be give and , if such proportion can not be prove , shall not exceed the sum obtain by divide the total loss by the number of tenant . ( 6 ) in this section – a " guarantor " be a person who enter into a guarantee in relation to a relevant tenancy ; a " guarantee " be a contractual promise to be responsible for the performance of an obligation owe by the tenant to a relevant person under the tenancy if the tenant fail to perform the obligation ; a " deposit scheme " include a scheme whereby a sum payable by way of deposit or a bond or guarantee be provide by a local authority , register charity or voluntary organisation for the purpose of provide security to a landlord for the performance of a tenant ' s obligation under a tenancy ; " tenancy deposit " have the same meaning as in section 212 ( 8 ) of the Housing Act 2004 . " this new clause would restrict the circumstance in which a landlord can request a guarantor . new clause 17 — use of licence condition to improve housing condition — " in section 90 of the Housing Act 2004 , for subsection ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) a licence may include such condition as the local housing authority consider appropriate for regulate all or any of the following — ( a ) the management , use and occupation of the house concern , and ( b ) its condition and content . " " this new clause would enable local authority operate selective licensing scheme to use licence condition to improve housing condition . new clause 18 — increase to duration of discretionary licensing scheme — " ( 1 ) the Housing Act 2004 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 60 ( 2 ) , omit " five " and insert " ten " . ( 3 ) in section 84 ( 2 ) , omit " five " and insert " ten " . " this new clause would increase the maximum duration of additional HMO licensing scheme and selective licensing scheme from five to ten year . new clause 19 — Assessment of operation of possession process — " ( 1 ) the Lord Chancellor must prepare an assessment of the operation of the process by which — ( a ) on application make by landlord , the county court be able to make order for the possession of dwelling in England that be let under assured and regulated tenancy , and ( b ) such order be enforce . ( 2 ) the Lord Chancellor must publish the assessment at such time , and in such manner , as the Lord Chancellor think appropriate . ( 3 ) in this section — " assure tenancy " mean an assure tenancy within the meaning of the 1988 Act ; " dwell " mean a building or part of a building which be occupy or intend to be occupy as a separate dwelling ; " regulated tenancy " mean a regulate tenancy within the meaning of the Rent Act 1977 . " new clause 20 — Review of the impact of the Act on the housing market — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish an annual report outline the impact of the provision of this Act on the housing market in the UK . ( 2 ) a report under this section must include the impact of this Act on — ( a ) the availability of home in the private rental sector ; ( b ) rent charge under tenancy ; ( c ) house price ; and ( d ) request for social housing . ( 3 ) a report under this section must be lay before Parliament . " new clause 21 — appropriate insurance product to be available to landlord — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , consult with representative of the insurance sector to ensure that — ( 1 ) sufficient and appropriate insurance product will be available for landlord wish to let a property to a tenant who — ( a ) be in receipt of benefit ; or ( b ) will be keep a pet in the property during their tenancy ; and ( 2 ) such insurance product will not disadvantage landlord wish to let a property to a such tenant or dissuade they from do so . " new clause 22 — requirement on landlord to pay for alternative accommodation — " in section 9a of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( fitness for human habitation of dwelling in England ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ( 1A ) where a dwelling — ( a ) be find to be at any point in a tenancy ; or ( b ) become during the period of the tenancy unfit for human habitation , the landlord must pay any cost incur by the tenant in obtain alternative accommodation . ( 1b ) a landlord must hold appropriate insurance for the purpose of pay any cost under subsection ( 1A ) . ( 1C ) for the purpose of this section — " cost " include — ( a ) move cost ; ( b ) deposit ; ( c ) rent , up to the amount of the rent for the original property ; " fitness for human habitation " be to be understand with reference to section 10 of this Act , but exclude any condition cause by any damage or neglect on the part of the tenant . " " new clause 23 — permission for home adaptation — " ( 1 ) the Housing Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 16 insert — " 16a home adaptation ( 1 ) it be an imply term of every assure tenancy that a landlord shall give permission for adaptation where a local council have carry out a Home Assessment and recommend adaptation which constitute reasonable adjustment under the Equality Act 2010 . ( 2 ) a tenant may appeal a landlord ' s refusal to give permission for such adaptation . " " this new clause would ensure that landlord of private and social tenancy provide permission for home adaptation for people who have disability where a Home Assessment have be carry out . new clause 24 — discrimination relate to requirement for home adaptation — " a relevant person must not , in relation to a dwelling that be to be let on an agreement which may give rise to a relevant tenancy — ( a ) on the basis that a person do or may require home adaptation , prevent the person from — ( i ) enquire whether the dwelling be available for let , ( ii ) access information about the dwelling , ( iii ) view the dwelling in order to consider whether to seek to rent it , or ( iv ) enter into a tenancy of the dwelling , or ( b ) apply a provision , criterion or practice in order to make people require home adaptation less likely to enter into a tenancy of the dwelling than people who do not require home adaptation . " Amendment 57 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 13 , at end insert — " unless the tenant meet the student test where the tenancy be enter into . ( 1A ) for the purpose of this section , a tenant who meet the student test when a tenancy be enter into have the same meaning as in Ground 4A . " Amendment 58 , page 1 , line 13 , at end insert — " unless the landlord and the tenant mutually agree to have a fix term during which period the landlord agree to suspend the ability to seek possession under Ground 1 ( Occupation by landlord or family ) , ground 1A ( sale of dwelling - house ) or Ground 6 ( Redevelopment ) of Schedule 2 . ( 1A ) during a fix term tenancy agree under subsection ( 1 ) the landlord shall not be entitle to increase the rent as provide for by section 13 . " Amendment 60 , page 1 , line 13 , at end insert " unless the landlord act as landlord for few than five property . " government amendment 12 to 17 . amendment 1 , in clause 7 , page 9 , line 6 , leave out from " determination " to end of line 11 and insert — " ( 4aa ) where the rent for a particular period of the tenancy be to be great than the rent for the previous period by virtue of a notice , determination or agreement mention in subsection ( 4A ) , the rent may not be great than the rent for the previous period increase by the Bank of England Base Rate . ( 4ab ) any provision relate to an assured tenancy to which this section apply be of no effect so far as it provide — ( a ) that the rent for a particular period of the tenancy must or may be great than the rent for the previous period otherwise than by virtue of a notice , determination or agreement mention in subsection ( 4A ) , or ( b ) that the rent for a particular period of the tenancy , where great than the rent for the previous period by virtue of a notice , determination or agreement mention in subsection ( 4A ) , must or may be great than the rent for the previous period increase by the Bank of England Base Rate . " this amendment would cap in - tenancy rent increase to the Bank of England base rate . amendment 9 , page 9 , line 6 , leave out from " determination " to the end of line 11 and insert — " ( 4aa ) where the rent for a particular period of the tenancy be to be great than the rent for the previous period by virtue of a notice , determination or agreement mention in subsection ( 4A ) , the rent may not be great than whichever be the less of — ( a ) the rent for the previous period plus an increase equal to the rent multiply by CPI ; or ( b ) the rent for the previous period plus an increase equal to the rent multiply by the percentage increase in median national earning . ( 4ab ) any provision relate to an assured tenancy to which this section apply be of no effect so far as it provide — ( a ) that the rent for a particular period of the tenancy must or may be great than the rent for the previous period otherwise than by virtue of a notice , determination or agreement mention in subsection ( 4A ) , or ( b ) that the rent for a particular period of the tenancy , where great than the rent for the previous period by virtue of a notice , determination or agreement mention in subsection ( 4A ) , must or may be great than the less of — ( i ) the rent for the previous period plus an increase equal to the rent multiply by CPI ; or ( ii ) the rent for the previous period plus an increase equal to the rent multiply by the percentage increase in median national earning . ( 4ac ) in this section — " CPI " mean the Consumer Prices Index 12 - month rate publish by the Office for National Statistics for 1 April precede the date the notice be serve . " the percentage increase in median national earning " mean that calculate by the UK Statistics Authority over a three - year period end on the date on which the notice be serve . " this amendment would introduce limit on the increase which could be make to rent by landlord . the limit would be calculate by reference to increase in CPI or median national earning . amendment 5 , in clause 8 , page 11 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( aa ) after " subject to " insert " section 13 ( 4aa ) and " ; ( ab ) omit from " concerned " to the end of the subsection and insert " should be let " ; " . this amendment would amend the Housing Act 1988 so that when determine rent tribunal must take into account the limit on rent increase introduce by Amendment 9 and need not consider exist market rate . amendment 6 , page 11 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 5 . Amendment 55 , page 11 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after paragraph ( b ) insert — " ( ba ) any change in the value of the dwelling - house result from improvement work to the property facilitate by any mean - test energy efficiency grant scheme " " . this amendment would ensure that improvement to a property facilitate by mean - test energy efficiency grant scheme can be disregard by a tribunal determine a new rent for the property , and can therefore not be use as ground for increase rent level . government amendment 27 . amendment 61 , in clause 11 , page 16 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must consult with representative of the insurance sector before this section come into effect to ensure that appropriate insurance product be available for tenant whose landlord have require insurance as a condition for consent to the keeping of a pet . " government amendment 28 and 29 . amendment 2 , in clause 19 , page 32 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( aa ) where it be give by a tenant in relation to a premise in which they be the first tenant since its construction , not less than twenty - four month before the date on which the notice be to take effect ; " . this amendment would allow an assured short - term tenancy for the first two year after a premise be construct . government amendment 30 and 34 to 39 . amendment 7 , in clause 75 , page 101 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) information or document to be provide under regulation under subsection ( 2 ) must include — ( a ) in respect of a landlord entry — ( i ) the address and contact detail of the landlord ; ( ii ) the address and contact detail of the manage agent ; ( iii ) detail of each rent property own by the landlord ; ( iv ) detail of any enforcement action that any local authority have take against the landlord ; ( v ) detail of any enforcement action that any local authority have take against the manage agent ; ( vi ) detail of any ban order or rent repayment order that have be make against the landlord ; ( vii ) detail of any report that the landlord have fail to carry out work necessary to remedy any breach of any applicable housing regulation within the timeframe set out by regulation make by the Secretary of State under section 10a ( 3 ) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 . ( b ) in respect of a dwelling entry — ( i ) the address and contact detail of the landlord ; ( ii ) the address and contact detail of the manage agent ; ( iii ) detail of any notice give to the previous tenant under section 8 of the Housing Act 1988 , include the ground rely upon ; ( iv ) detail of the rent that be payable at the commencement of the exist tenancy or , where there be no exist tenancy , the most recent tenancy ; ( v ) detail of any increase in the rent impose during the exist tenancy and the previous tenancy ; ( vi ) detail of energy performance certificate require by regulation 6 ( 5 ) of the Energy Performance of Buildings ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2012 ; ( vii ) detail of gas safety certificate require by regulation 36 of the Gas Safety ( Installation and Use ) Regulations 1998 ; ( viii ) detail of electrical safety report require by the Electrical Safety Standards in the private Rented Sector ( England ) Regulations 2010 ; ( ix ) detail of check require under regulation 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Alarm ( England ) Regulations 2015 ; and ( x ) detail of any feature of the dwelling relevant to people with disability . " this amendment would introduce specific requirement for landlord and dwelling entry on the private Rented Sector Database . government amendment 40 and 41 . amendment 11 , in clause 96 , page 114 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 40 ( introduction and key definition ) , in subsection ( 1 ) after " have " insert — " breach a requirement impose by section 62 ( 1 ) or 80 ( 3 ) of the Renters ’ Rights Act 2025 or " " . this amendment would enable a tribunal to make a rent repayment order where a landlord have fail to join a landlord redress scheme or have active entry in the private rent sector database . amendment 3 , in clause 98 , page 117 , line 33 , after " ( homelessness ) , " insert — " or that be provide by the Ministry of Defence for use as service family accommodation , " . this amendment would extend the Decent Homes Standard to Ministry of Defence service family accommodation . amendment 8 , page 117 , line 33 , leave out from " ( homelessness ) " to the end of line 3 on page 118 . this amendment would make the Decent Homes Standard apply to all homeless temporary accommodation provide under the Housing Act 1996 by adapt the definition of " residential premise " in the Housing Act 2004 to remove a requirement for such temporary accommodation to meet certain Government regulation . government amendment 42 to 52 . amendment 56 , in clause 142 , page 151 , line 9 , leave out from " subject to " to the end of line 27 and insert — " the publication of an assessment under section [ Assessment of operation of possession process ] . amendment 10 , in schedule 1 , page 160 , line 13 , leave out subsection ( a ) . this amendment would extend the special provision for purpose - build student housing to HMO student property . government amendment 18 to 22 . amendment 59 , page 168 , line 25 , at end insert — " 20A after Ground 6 insert — " ground 6za the landlord or superior landlord who be seek possession intend to undertake such work as be necessary to ensure that the property meet the standard set out by regulation under section 2A of the Housing Act 2004 and the intend work can not reasonably be carry out without the tenant give up possession of the dwelling - house because — ( a ) the tenant be not willing to agree to such a variation of the term of the tenancy as would give such access and other facility as would permit the intend work to be carry out , or ( b ) the nature of the intend work be such that no such variation be practicable , or ( c ) the tenant be not willing to accept an assured tenancy of such part only of the dwelling - house ( in this sub - paragraph refer to as " the reduced part " ) as would leave in the possession of his landlord so much of the dwelling - house as would be reasonable to enable the intend work to be carry out and , where appropriate , as would give such access and other facility over the reduced part as would permit the intend work to be carry out , or ( d ) the nature of the intend work be such that such a tenancy be not practicable . " " government amendment 23 to 26 , 31 to 33 , 53 and 54 . it be a pleasure to bring this important Bill back to the House this afternoon . let I begin by thank hon . member on both side of the Chamber for their engagement with it over recent month . in particular , I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , and other member of the Committee for the diligent and thoughtful line - by - line scrutiny of the Bill that they undertake over the course of many sitting late last year . this Labour Government promise to succeed where their predecessor have fail , by quickly and decisively act to transform the experience of private renting in England . today , we make further tangible progress towards deliver on that commitment . our Renters ' Rights Bill will modernise the regulation of our country ' s insecure and unjust private rent sector , level decisively the play field between landlord and tenant . it will empower renter by provide they with great security , right and protection so that they can stay in their home for long , build life in their community and avoid the risk of homelessness . it will ensure that we can drive up the quality of privately rent housing so that renter have access to good - quality and safe home as a matter of course . it will also allow we to crack down on the minority of unscrupulous landlord who exploit , mistreat or discriminate against renter . the Bill will also provide tangible benefit for responsible landlord who provide high - quality home and a good service to their tenant . not only will its provision see the reputation of the sector as a whole improve , as we clamp down on those landlord whose behaviour currently tarnish it , but the Bill will also ensure that good landlord enjoy simple regulation and clear and expand possession ground , so that they can regain their property quickly when necessary . although we have eschew the previous Government ' s habit of shoehorn swathe of new clause into legislation follow Second Reading , we need to make a modest number of improvement to the Bill in Committee . many of the amendment in question be minor and technical or consequential in nature , but I shall briefly explain to the House some of the more substantive change . to increase fairness for tenant be evict because their landlord be at fault , we choose to make an amendment connect to ground 6a . as hon . member will be aware this mandatory ground allow landlord to remove their tenant when eviction be necessary for they to comply not only with enforcement action , but as a result of separate change that we make to the Bill with planning enforcement action as well . the amendment allow the court to require landlord to pay compensation to the tenant when they be force to vacate their home under such circumstance . to provide great flexibility for social landlord in meet the demand of local housing market , we widen ground 1b for rent - to - buy tenancy , ensure that register provider can take possession in all necessary circumstance . we also exempt assure tenancy from the 90 - day rule , which protect housing supply in London and benefit permanent resident by prevent the conversion of family home into short - term let . should a tenant give notice early in their tenancy , mean that they leave before 90 consecutive night have pass , these change mean that the landlord will not automatically be find to have inadvertently provide temporary sleeping accommodation . lastly , we make change to ensure that the introduction of a decent home standard in the private rent sector work as intend . last week , I ask the Government to ensure that all service family accommodation meet the minimum standard of social housing , as set out in the decent home standard . the Minister for Veterans confirm that this be already do , so will the Government support amend the Renters ' right Bill officially to extend the decent home standard to Ministry of Defence service family accommodation ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and I agree with the objective that she have in mind , but , as we discuss fairly extensively in Committee , we do not think that the Renters ' Rights Bill and the way that the decent home standard will apply to assure tenancy in this sector be right for MOD accommodation . the MOD be undertake its own review , and I shall touch on that issue later in the debate . as I be say , the change around the decent home standard will guarantee that the appropriate person can always be subject to enforcement action and they close a potential gap that may have be exploit by clarify the type of accommodation that will be require to meet the standard . today , we be propose a small number of further improvement , most of which be again minor and technical in nature . as I have make clear repeatedly , the Government have long recognise that demand for extortionate amount of rent in advance put undue financial strain on tenant and can exclude certain group from rent altogether . I be sure that many of we in the Chamber will have hear powerful story from our constituent about the impact of such demand . the typical story be all too familiar . tenant find and view a property which , as advertise , match their budget only to find that , on application , they be suddenly ask to pay several month ' rent up front to secure it . tenant in such circumstance often confront an almost impossible choice : do they find a way to make a large rent - in - advance payment , thereby stretch their finance to breaking point , or do they walk away and risk homelessness if they be unable to find an alternative ? I thank the Minister for the work he have be do . he highlight the issue of tenant be ask to pay up front . in my constituency and many other London constituency , that up - front cost amount in some case to a deposit to purchase a home . do he agree that we need to look into that issue and into estate agent effectively get tenant to bid against each other for private rent accommodation ? my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee be absolutely right and , as I will detail , that be precisely why the Government be move to prohibit that practice . as she will know , the Government have already move to ban bidding war through the Bill , where desperate tenant be often pit against each other so that a landlord can extract the high possible rental payment . demand for large rent - in - advance payment — in many part of the country , they can be six , nine or even 12 month ' rent in advance — can have a similar effect , with tenant encourage to offer ever large sum up front to outdo the competition and secure a home that may or may not be of a good standard , or risk be lock out of rent altogether . as I state previously , the interaction of the new rent period in clause 1 , which can not be long than a month , and the exist provision of the Tenant Fees Act 2019 relate to prohibit payment , arguably provide a measure of protection against request for large amount of advance rent . as I make clear in Committee , however , there be a strong case for put the matter beyond doubt , and that be what we intend to do . as the Minister will know , before come to this place I work for a homelessness charity in Harlow call streets2homes . part of our role be to support homeless people — both rough sleeper and the hide homeless — to get into rented accommodation , and often we provide deposit for that . do he agree that the legislation will help charity like streets2homes provide more support to more people in need ? it absolutely will . I will detail some of the other change that we be make to ensure that the Bill achieve our objective . have listen to the concern raise by numerous stakeholder , the view express on Second Reading and in Committee , and the representative make to I by individual hon . member , include my hon . friend the Members for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) , for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , we have table new clause 13 and 14 . new clause 14 would limit the amount of rent that a landlord can require to a maximum of one month . it would prevent unscrupulous landlord from use rent in advance to either set tenant against each other in de facto bidding war or to exclude all together certain type of renter who be otherwise perfectly able to afford the monthly rent on a property . it do so by amend schedule 1 to the Tenant Fees Act 2019 so that any payment of rent make before a tenancy agreement be sign will be a prohibit payment . if a landlord or let agent invite , encourage or accept such a payment , they could face local authority enforcement action and a fine of up to £ 5 , 000 . new clause 13 would amend the Housing Act 1988 to ensure that tenant continue to be protect from unreasonable request for rent to be pay early once a tenancy have commence . Landlords will no long be able to include any term in the tenancy agreement that have the effect of require rent to be pay prior to the rent due date . tenant will retain the flexibility to make payment of rent in advance within a tenancy agreement should they wish to do so . the effect of the new clause will be that tenant can be certain that the financial outlay to secure a tenancy will not exceed the cost of a tenancy deposit and the first month ' s rent , and that they will not be require to pay their rent early than agree . the new clause will thereby reduce the barrier that stop tenant move from substandard or insecure housing , and I commend they to the House . hon . member with large student population in their constituency will know that the dynamic of the general student rental market in many part of the country see student compel to make important decision about accommodation long before they have form stable friendship group , or have have time to properly judge a property ' s condition or location , and to consequently pay substantial deposit at a point in time when they be already cope with significant additional cost . this arm race , in which student be pressure ever early in the year to enter into contract for the subsequent academic year , clearly be not benefit they , and it be arguable whether it benefit the student landlord engage in it . the Government have therefore table amendment 18 and 53 , which will prevent the use of possession ground 4A in instance where a student tenancy be agree more than six month in advance of the date of occupation , thereby help to reduce the prevalence of the practice . I want to be clear that the amendment will not lead to an outright ban on contract be agree more than six month in advance . instead , make the use of ground 4A conditional on not do so will act as a strong disincentive against landlord who wish to use it to pressure student into early sign - up , as many do now . I thank all those who have advocate for this change , include the former Member for Sheffield Central , Paul Blomfield , during his time in Parliament , my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley , and organisation such as Unipol . have take up the cause of a family in her constituency who be force by a let agent to continue to pay as guarantor for a property that have be rent by their son before he tragically take his own life , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) have be campaign for many year to protect bereaved family by prohibit the practice . I pay tribute to she for her tireless effort to secure a change in this area . she be unable to persuade the previous Government to make the necessary change to the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , but this Government be determined to act to end the abhorrent practice where guarantor be hold liable for unpaid rent owe solely as a result of the death of a tenant who be a family member . we have table new clause 15 , which will limit the liability of a guarantor of a tenancy agreement for rent in circumstance where a tenant have die . I should make it clear that if in a joint tenancy the guarantor be not a family member , their liability for rent will be maintain . we consider that fair because we do not think it be reasonable to remove the guarantor ' s liability and therefore expose a landlord to additional financial risk where the guarantor be not relate to the deceased . our new clause strike the right balance : guarantor will be protect from be hold liable for rent when they be grieve ; landlord will be able to reclaim cost owe prior to a tenant ' s death ; and guarantor ' s liability for other cost incur under the tenancy will not be affect . I turn to amendment 40 and 41 , which will amend exist power to charge fee for the private rent sector database . the amendment will expand the definition of relevant cost that can be consider when calculate such fee and would enable fee revenue to include prs enforcement cost incur by local housing authority . hon . member should be assure that database fee will be calculate and agree at a later date , with further detail set out in secondary legislation and develop on the basis that fee must be reasonable and proportionate . the amendment do not alter that position . in set the fee , a range of factor will be consider , include the cost incur by landlord . however , we need to ensure that when calculate fee , we can take into account all relevant cost , and the amendment will ensure that that be the case . enable fee revenue to include prs enforcement cost be also important . for the reform to have the impact we all want , effective enforcement will be crucial , and that point be debate at length in Committee . as we have touch on frequently throughout our consideration of the Bill , local housing authority capacity and resourcing be a real problem . the amendment provide an additional lever to help ensure that every local housing authority have the tool and resource it need to carry out its enforcement role , so that good tenant and landlord benefit from a well - regulated and enforce prs . amendment 35 to 39 will expand the scope of what can be cover by the compulsory fee that private landlord will be require to pay to fund the new PRS landlord ombudsman . they will ensure that the fee can cover the set - up cost of the ombudsman and activity specify in the regulation beyond those strictly necessary for mandatory aspect of landlord redress . that will allow the ombudsman to set up the core redress service and to provide additional member benefit , such as landlord - initiate mediation or voluntary member redress , without the cost have to be bear by the taxpayer . I turn to amendment 42 to 52 . rent repayment order be an important and effective tenant - lead enforcement tool . they deter landlord from non - compliance and empower tenant to take action against unscrupulous landlord . the Bill will significantly strengthen rent repayment order , include their extension to superior landlord in rent - to - rent arrangement . but we intend to go far and ensure that those sort of arrangement can not be use to evade responsibility and escape enforcement action . we be also make it clear that tenant and local authority can seek a rent repayment order against any landlord in the chain , regardless of who they pay the rent to . amendment 24 and 26 will limit the circumstance in which landlord can use ground 7 to obtain possession from a person who have inherit a tenancy follow the death of a tenant . they will provide great security for bereaved tenant by prevent they from lose their home , and I acknowledge the role that Marie Curie have play in advocate for change in respect of the matter . Landlords will still be able to use ground 7 if the original tenant have inherit it by will or intestacy , or if the inheriting individual do not live in the property before the tenant pass away . Landlords will also be able to use ground 7 for specialist tenancy , such as support and temporary accommodation . that be in recognition of the critical role such tenancy play in supply housing to those with specialist need . private register provider be currently restrict from use the possession ground for redevelopment — ground 6 — apart from where they have a superior landlord who want to redevelop the property . other possession ground , such as the suitable alternative accommodation ground — ground 9 — can be use to move tenant , but only if clear condition be meet . although we expect prp to work closely with tenant to facilitate move to enable redevelopment work , the Government accept that in limited case it be increasingly hard to meet those condition , prevent prp from progress with crucial redevelopment work . I thank the National Housing Federation for raise concern about that matter with I . I welcome what the Minister just say . be he aware that a lot of landlord be use unreasonable argument to terminate tenancy or raise rent ahead of this legislation come into force , and be there anything he or his Department can do to protect tenant during this stressful period for they ? there be a lot of bad practice out there . that be the very reason why the Government have act so quickly to introduce these reform , and we be confident that once they be in place , they will provide tenant with the protection that they deserve . in the interim , I be afraid that there will continue to be bad practice of the kind that the Bill will stamp out . for the reason that I have just allude to , we have table amendment 19 and 22 to give private register provider an alternative route for obtain possession for redevelopment and for decant accommodation . where the landlord seek possession on ground 6 or grind 6za because they intend to carry out redevelopment work or want to move a tenant on from decant accommodation , they will need to provide alternative accommodation that meet specific requirement . that include the accommodation be affordable , in a suitable location and not overcrowded . the accommodation must also be let as an assured tenancy or equivalent , unless it be be let for a temporary period pende the tenant be move to an assured tenancy or equivalent . to use ground 6za , landlord must give tenant prior notice to ensure that they be fully aware that the accommodation be provide for temporary decant use . if the landlord do not do that , they be liable for a fine of up to £ 7 , 000 . where landlord wish to accommodate tenant temporarily in property that be earmark for redevelopment , social landlord must give prior notice , and set out in a write statement the intention to redevelop the accommodation and the timeframe for redevelopment . under those circumstance , alternative accommodation will not need to be provide . social landlord will also be require to pay removal expense for social tenant when use ground 6 and grind 6za . we do not expect that the need to use those ground will arise often in practice through the engagement of prp with tenant , but where need , the amendment will ensure that significant redevelopment work be not unduly delay . government amendment 12 , 13 , 17 , 20 , 21 , 23 , 28 to 30 and 54 be related and consequential provision to reflect the new ability for landlord to gain possession for redevelopment and for decant accommodation . we think that this group of amendment get the balance right , enable prp to progress redevelopment and use temporary decant accommodation during redevelopment work , while ensure that tenant be provide with appropriate alternative accommodation and removal expense . let I turn finally to amendment 34 . clause 30 ensure that long lease can continue to function by exclude lease over seven year from the assured regime . those lease be typically use in purchase of leasehold and share - ownership property . I be grateful to stakeholder for raise concern about the possibility of some unscrupulous landlord use clause 30 to circumnavigate the new assured regime by issue lease of over seven year with a break or early - termination clause that be operable in the first few year . tenant must not be cheat out of the protection of the assure tenancy regime . the amendment will therefore exclude all lease over 21 year from the assured regime . that will act as a much strong deterrent to landlord who seek to avoid the assure tenancy regime . the amendment also exclude exist lease of between seven and 21 year , to ensure that they can continue to operate as currently intend . it also ensure that regulate home purchase plan can continue to enable consumer to purchase property use the principle of islamic finance by add they to the list of exclude tenancy in schedule 1 to the Housing Act 1988 . the amendment that the Government have table for consideration today be a series of target change design to ensure that the Bill work as intend , and I commend they all to the House . I thank hon . member for their effort to improve the Bill , and for the scrutiny and challenge that the Bill have receive so far . I look forward to listen to the remainder of the debate . I call the shadow Minister . may I echo the Minister ' s comment , and extend my thank to he and his team , the other member who serve on the Committee , and the many witness who come in to share their view ? it be clear that a lot of the discussion have be on the real - world impact that the legislation will have , rather than on political point , and in that spirit , I will set out my response , and the rationale behind a number of the amendment that we have table , which will be the subject of debate and vote this afternoon . clearly , legislation be about strike the right balance . this afternoon , we will recognise — as we have do in our contribution to debate on this issue — the impact that the Bill will have on tenant , landlord and the stakeholder whom our amendment seek to protect . I highlight in particular the impact on student ; on financially vulnerable tenant , such as those with low credit score ; on tenant who have pet ; on small landlord , who be themselves vulnerable to financial shock ; and of course on other group , such as agricultural worker and those with work - relate accommodation , include NHS worker , military family and school staff , all of whom be mention in Committee and will , I be sure , be cover again later . all our amendment have seek to address practical issue , such as ensure that when work be require on a property and a tenant be reluctant to allow the landlord in to carry out that work for whatever reason , there be sufficient freedom and flexibility in the legislation to ensure that the work can take place . the shadow Minister talk about situation in which tenant must leave a property . a constituent of mine have a terrible ordeal . she move into a new rental property , but after three month it become uninhabitable , and she spend a further 11 week go in and out of eight Airbnbs . she be leave thousand of pound out of pocket because the landlord ' s insurance cover his loss of rent but do not cover the accommodation cost that she incur as a tenant . will the shadow Minister support my new clause 22 , which would require landlord to hold appropriate insurance for the purpose of pay any cost relate to alternative accommodation in such situation ? there be a number of way to address that issue . the Minister have talk compensation , and we have table amendment on insurance , but clearly there need to be an effective dispute resolution mechanism in place , so that such situation can be resolve when they arise . we be focus in particular on ensure that there be sufficient flexibility when , for example , work must be carry out to improve energy efficiency or to address health and safety concern such as mould , and a tenant need to leave because the work will render the property uninhabitable . although there have be substantial area of agreement on the Bill , much of which take forward work that start under the previous Government in their Renters ( Reform ) Bill , we have concern that it create significant new problem for the availability and affordability of accommodation in the private rent sector . that sector , we must not forget , enjoy the high tenant satisfaction of any private tenure : 82 % of private renter say that they be satisfied with their accommodation . the backdrop be challenging , and have become a lot more so recently . the Chancellor ' s Budget have set inflation rise , and borrowing cost be soar . market be respond to the chaos in No . 11 , and that be cause a great deal of uncertainty for tenant and landlord alike . her decision be stoke inflation , and that be push up rent and housing cost of all kind . the black hole in local government funding , which be unveil just before Christmas , mean that council face the twin existential threat of wholesale reorganisation and grow funding shortfall lack certainty from the Government about the funding to deliver this enormous increase in workload . I know that the shadow Minister care passionately about this area , especially in the light of his local government experience . give that financial pressure on local authority be add to by the need to provide temporary accommodation to family face eviction , do he agree that we should have abolish section 21 no - fault eviction soon ? I say gently to the hon . Lady that have Labour - run Lambeth council not recently rush to put 200 of its own people on the street use section 21 , because it be concerned about the impact that the Bill will have on its housing situation , that would have more credibility . it be clear that this be a difficult situation in all part of the country . there be a significant shortfall in emergency accommodation in London in particular , and a rise cost attach to it there , just as other area of the country have a surplus of accommodation . that be all part of a complex picture . we need to make sure that everything work efficiently and effectively together , and it be absolutely right that we set out our concern about whether the Bill go far enough in all area towards address those issue — and about whether , in some case , it go too far . I touch on the impact of the black hole in local government funding . another area that be drive significant pressure be the Government ' s approach to asylum . they be grant refugee status fast , so people be be push out of the door of Home Office asylum dispersal accommodation and on to local housing waiting list . I be sure that many hon . member in this Chamber will have be lobby by their local authority about the impact of that additional pressure — those additional people , who under our law be perfectly entitle to that housing — on supply in their area . all those thing have a huge collective impact on the pool of available housing . of course , as we have see in the news , the decline confidence abroad in our economy be reduce the number of overseas student . that make it more important than ever to support thrive student accommodation through tenancy that address student ' need properly — especially the need of student who be old , have family , or be study for high degree and have a fix commitment to a location . all those requirement need to be address effectively in this legislation . do the Bill in its new form rise to those challenge ? it be clear that it fail to ensure that landlord can recover their property quickly when they need to . that reduce their incentive to rent it out , especially for small landlord . if the hon . member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) need to recover some of her property portfolio to return it to another owner , will she have the assurance under this Bill that due process be available to she ? the Bill fail to ensure a flexibility and freedom of contract that allow tenant and landlord to agree a deal that suit they both . student want to book accommodation for a guarantee period of two year — or short or long — and those move to a new location for a fix - term work contract require opportunity and flexibility that be take away by this legislation . the Bill take away landlord ' opportunity to make allowance for financially risky tenant , such as those with a poor credit record , through rent in advance or other safeguarding arrangement that give the landlord confidence that they will not lose out . that lock financially vulnerable people out of the rental market . the Bill also put enormous obligation on local council — one of the big additional set of burden and expectation in generation — and there be no real clarity yet on how it will be resource , at a time when all the wide uncertainty that I have describe add up to a great deal of additional cost . the Bill also fail to provide the necessary assurance that tenant who have pet and need to access insurance as part of their tenancy condition will be able to find affordable insurance . that be deal with in our new clause 21 . more concern still , the Bill be a miss opportunity to provide this House with a proper impact assessment , or the assurance of a future review that would give we really good evidence on which to base our decision . our new clause 20 would address that shortcoming , and the House will have the opportunity to vote for it shortly . let I give an example of where there be significant uncertainty . in some of the political knockabout , the Government have seek to blame their predecessor for court delay , while claim that there be no delay worthy of regard in the passage of this Bill , which load more regulation on to the sector . both of those thing can not be true simultaneously , so let we properly assess the impact of the Bill before we legislate . there be a lot of good will — for example , on the point about tenant with pet be able to access the accommodation that they need . we do not want to find ourselves return to this issue in the House because the legislation fail to achieve what we have hope . clearly , it be the role of this Chamber to scrutinise and question , and it be the role of the Opposition to oppose when we can not see that the legislation before we will result in an improvement in the lot of the people of this country . a pattern be emerge . the Government come after the farmer . they come after the pub . they come after the small business . they come after the private school . they come after our local councillor . now this Bill , in its new form , come after our tenant and our landlord . it be very clear from the number of Government amendment , which the Minister refer to , that the point we make in Committee about the many shortcoming of the Bill that need to be address be not lose on the Government . I return to the point that even a Labour council — a bastion such as Lambeth , lead by the Labour chair of London Councils — be rush to use section 21 to evict its own tenant in advance of this Bill because of the impact it will have . a Labour council and a Labour Government be put their own people out of their home . I know that the Minister be no Corbynista — we have certainly learn that in the debate ; in fact , I even discover that he have name his dog after Clement Attlee , who I assume be a great political hero — but Government new clause 13 and 14 will make this Bill so much bad for prospective tenant . many of we will have have constituent come to our surgery who be turn their life around . they have get a job , an income and some saving , but they do not have a good credit record , and they face be lock out of the housing market because the necessary flexibility and measure that would address that credit score concern be effectively prohibit . foreign worker come to the UK , need to access accommodation and provide sufficient guarantee ; foreign student ; people who be retire and look to downsize to a rental property ; and people who , for family reason , can not access a guarantor will all find themselves significantly disadvantage by Government new clause 13 and 14 , which increase the risk to landlord by take away mitigation and take away people ' s freedom to reach a contract and an agreement that suit they . I know that Labour member be very keen on ask conservative Members for apology , so I be go to conclude with one . apologise ! I promise the hon . member that that be exactly what I be go to do . I be go to make an apology to all those in the private rent sector . [ interruption . ] the Minister say from a sedentary position that I have only four hour . I be afraid that I will not be able to go through all the private tenant individually , but the apology will be fulsome . I say to those in the private rented sector , 82 % of whom be very satisfied with their accommodation , that I be sorry that they will be face with the mess that this Bill will create , whether they be seek to rent their first home or need to move to a new one . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way , because I be conclude . we on the conservative Benches give those people the undertaking that while they may have to endure that situation until the next election , we will put it right , for the benefit of landlord and tenant alike . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for his constructive work with the Liberal Democrats and other party in Committee . for a generation cut off from the dream of home ownership who find that , after half a century of flog off social house and council house — over 1 . 5 million have be lose since 1980 — there be now basically none leave , it be vital that we restore hope to million who aspire to a decent home . as such , the Liberal Democrats support the key principle of this Bill , which be to bring an end to no - fault eviction . after the continual stop - start of the previous Government , give tenant the security they deserve be long overdue . it be time to end once and for all the fear that any complaint from any tenant could be meet with an instant eviction notice at any moment . of course , landlord do not generally act in such a cavalier fashion ; most be good landlord , and we value they and what they bring to the market . as such , to sustain a healthy private rent sector , we have table amendment 10 , which would extend to off - street student rental landlord the same possession law that apply to purpose - build student accommodation . give that fully 31 % of property on the Accommodation for student website be one or two - bedroom property rather than house in multiple occupancy , as Unipol and the Higher Education Policy Institute have point out , that be a big chunk of the market , and one that need to be address . the need for more home be why we have table amendment 2 , which would particularly incentivise more build - to - rent accommodation . in Taunton and Wellington , our Lib Dem council have support the delivery of ten of thousand of new home ; our population increase by 10 % up to 2021 . our manifesto call for 150 , 000 social home per year — I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests regard my experience as a social landlord . we clearly set out the borrowing of £ 6 billion per year that would make that happen , unlike the Labour and conservative manifesto , which include no number whatsoever for social housing . we need a lot of that build - to - rent accommodation also to be rent to own , so renter can accrue ownership of their own home . it be time to give a whole generation of young people who have be exclude that elusive first step on the housing ladder . amendment 2 would therefore give a developer of build - to - rent housing the security of a fix term of 24 month for the first tenancy . since that be table , I have hear from the British Property Federation and other , and they have suggest that an initial fix term of six month would enable they to secure the investment they need to build more and to get build . that would not undermine the general principle of move to periodic tenancy , as build to rent be only 0 . 1 % of the housing stock . we will not press amendment 2 , but I genuinely urge the Government to take up the idea , run with it and generate more investment in new home . let I turn to the interest of tenant , which have be so overlook for so long . my constituent and friend Mike Godleman , who be disabled , die while recover from major surgery and under the threat of a no - fault eviction notice , for no reason he could possibly work out . in part in his memory , our new clause 23 would ensure that landlord of both private and social tenancy must give permission for home adaptation when a home assessment have be carry out . if rental bidding be to be outlaw , as the Minister say , it must not be replace by bid up rent in advance , so our new clause 1 would limit rent in advance to two month ' rent . in that respect , I welcome Government new clause 13 . in - tenancy rent increase also need to be limit to protect tenant from exorbitant increase . the most sensible way to do this be set out in our amendment 1 , which would peg increase to the Bank of England base rate . property be a financial and investment asset , and landlord ' cost be more directly influence by mortgage rate rather than by the general inflation and the cost of living . new clause 22 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , would require landlord to pay for alternative accommodation when dwelling be unfit for human habitation . turn to the amendment propose by other hon . member , we support the propose new clause 10 in the name of the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , which will prevent the guarantor from be liable on the death of a tenant , and we recognise that the Government have table new clause 15 to limit that liability , rather than end it altogether . we also support amendment 7 on the content that must be submit for inclusion in the database . the database could be a very powerful instrument for tenant if it provide information , as I speak about at some length in Committee . we also support new clause 6 , which would give care leaver support through funding for a deposit when they move out of care . both those amendment be in the name of the hon . member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) . one of the big concern to landlord , tenant and local community in Taunton and Wellington , as it be in Cornwall , the lake and other place , be that there be no control over the number of home be turn into holiday let and Airbnbs . this have prompt a significant increase to about 3 , 000 holiday home in Somerset — a 33 % increase in short - term rental in the south - west since 2019 . visitor of course bring welcome investment , but in some area second home be price local out of local market . my hon . friend be talk about second home , which can particularly affect rural community . schedule 1 provide mandatory ground to recover possession in order to house an agricultural worker , but do he agree that the definition of " agricultural worker " be limited and do not reflect rural worker — for example , those who work in the horse training industry in the village of Lambourn in my constituency , where local housing be key to that industry give the nature and the hour of the work of stable staff ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . that definition need to cover the breadth of agricultural worker , and I be sure the Minister have hear his point . liberal Democrats have long argue for a licensing system and tough planning control for second home , with a new use class to cover second home and short - term let . both this and previous government have say that they would create a new use class , so I urge the Minister to say in today ' s debate whether that will really happen . without control , there be a serious risk of second home proliferate if landlord do not wish to be part of a more regulated private rent sector follow the enactment of this Bill . our new clause 2 would therefore require the Government to assess properly the growth in short - term let , and I urge the Minister to do so . in fact , I be not sure why anyone would oppose that amendment . finally , our amendment 3 would apply the Bill ' s propose decent home standard to military service family accommodation . I be grateful to the Minister for take the time to write to I on this , but the argument that a standard would not be suitable for service family accommodation do not stand up , because clause 98 allow the Secretary of State to establish whatever version of the decent home standard they feel be appropriate . I do not think anyone across the House would understand why that should be different for service family . we will no doubt hear the Ministry of Defence say that 90 % or more of service family accommodation already meet the decent home standard so it be all okay , but in that case , why not make that claim evident by subject that accommodation to the decent home standard in the Bill ? to say that the recently publish " Service Accommodation " report from the Defence Committee , under the chairmanship of the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , say something different from the official report would be a massive understatement . the Select Committee report evidence from one service family , who say : " it be impossible to challenge the ' Decent Homes Standard ' without pay for a survey yourself . it be widely accept that each house have not be check but either guess or it be assume that the standard of one house be the same as all in one area . " I therefore ask how sure we can be of the self - declare statistic from the Defence Infrastructure Organisation , or be they from Annington home ? as another witness before the Select Committee say : " it be disingenuous for DIO to present glossy brochure about be ' decent home plus ' when they be anything but " and " it be clear that the DIO ' s property frequently do not meet the standard . " crucially , the witness add : " moreover , there be no local authority " — or anyone else — " to hold they to account as would be the case for private and other local landlord . " that be exactly what amendment 3 would provide . in the Kerslake report , commission before the election by the now Secretary of State for Defence — a former Housing Minister — report of damp , mould and , in other service accommodation , rat infestation abound . if all the witness and all these report be wrong and the official figure be right , show that over 90 % of property meet the decent home standard , there be nothing for the MOD to fear in subject service accommodation to that assessment , just as social and private landlord will have to do under the Bill . the hard work of my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) get even the previous Government to come round to the idea , and the then Minister , the former Member for Redcar , say in this Chamber on 24 April last year that the government : " intend to ensure that service accommodation meet the decent home standard " . — [ Official Report , 24 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 1029 . ] service family such as those of 40 Commando Royal Marines , part of our Taunton and Wellington family community , make massive sacrifice for our country , and sometimes make the ultimate sacrifice . they deserve decent home , and the MOD should be require to meet the standard , just as the Government be require that of other landlord . I be grateful to see support for amendment 3 from across the House . we will be vote for it this evening to support our service family , and I urge member across the House to vote for it , too . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I start by pay tribute to member from across the House who have table an amendment at this stage , and to the Minister , who have engage constructively with member between Second Reading and Report . as we debate this Bill today , it be important to remember why it be so badly need : the dire situation that many tenant across all our constituency be face through no fault of their own . we have to ask ourselves how we get to a position where tenant have the threat of eviction hold over their head for no good reason . how do we get to a position where tenant can be give only a couple of month to raise thousand of pound for rent in advance , on top of move cost and the deposit ? how do we get to a position where the average rent go up by 9 . 1 % last year ? for far too long tenant have be the innocent victim of an unjust power balance in the rental market . as a result , many of they have be unable to keep a roof over their head and , sadly , have fall into homelessness . this can not continue any long . we need a fair deal for renter . have the hon . Member notice , as I have , an increase in the number of threaten eviction at the present time , as well as no - fault eviction , excessive rent rise and harassment by landlord of private sector tenant ? do she believe that there be any immediate and urgent protection that we can give those tenant ? as a fellow London MP , the right hon . Member will see what I see in my inbox , with many tenant face that threat on an almost daily basis . they be the same tenant who come to our advice surgery and be turn away from overstretched council department , and who can not apply to social housing waiting list because those list be already full . it be important that we get guarantee and protection for those tenant as outline in the Bill , and hopefully help my constituent and his , and people up and down the country . this situation can not be allow to continue . I be proud that the Bill will be strengthen by some of the welcome amendment that member have table . I extend my support to new clause 3 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , on limit rent payable in advance . that be a big issue in my constituency of Vauxhall and Camberwell Green , and I have speak to many tenant who be be ask to stump up six to 12 month ' rent in advance . that leave many people price out of the rental market , end in a race to the bottom where landlord can charge more and more for less in return . how can someone finally find a place that they want to call home , only to be tell that they need to pay out thousand upon thousand of pound up front ? in some case , because of the rent charge in my constituency , and many other , the money that people be ask to stump up in advance would amount to a deposit if they take it to purchase a home in another part of the country . we be talk in excess of £ 30 , 000 if someone be ask to stump up , with an average rent of £ 2 , 500 per calendar month in my constituency . the result be that those who do not have significant saving or family wealth end up need to borrow money just to have somewhere to live . that cycle of exploitation be push thousand of people into debt , impact they for the rest of their life . research from StepChange show that one in six private renter be rely on credit to make end meet . something must change , because the system be break . we must lower immediate financial pressure on tenant and make private renting fairer for everyone . that be why I welcome the amendment table by the Secretary of State , and I urge the House to support measure that will reduce up - front cost for all renter . my constituency be home to thousand of university student from great university across London . student often have the most insecure housing , because landlord know that they can charge a new group high rent every year . I therefore welcome measure that restrict the time that a landlord can agree a new tenancy , prior to the end of the current tenancy in student housing . many of we will remember the time when we go to university and look for accommodation . we sign up to live with friend or someone we know — perhaps by Christmas we have all fall out , and there be that frantic search when someone leave the property and we have to find a new flatmate . many social medium post be put on SpareRoom . com or Facebook , and university student need time to bed into their new accommodation . the new clause will help to give student that breathe space , and avoid the problem they face as a result of early sign - up accommodation . new clause 10 address a vital issue , and I pay tribute to my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , for table it and for her tireless campaign . the death of a love one be a difficult and challenging time for anybody , and the one thing people need be the time and space to grieve . under current rule , guarantor can end up face a huge bill for the remainder of their love one ' s rent . none of we would want to be place in that situation . it be right that the Government have act to prevent guarantor from be face with that unacceptable scenario , and I urge the House to support the new clause . I also wish briefly to touch on some other amendment , which I hope the Government will consider during the Bill ' s passage in the other place . although the Bill introduce a rent tribunal for unfair rent rise , there be concern from group such as the Renters Reform Coalition that measure in the Bill do not go far enough to prevent landlord from evict a tenant under the guise of a large rent increase . I be particularly concerned that market rent may not be an appropriate benchmark when market datum be poor . renter at the bottom end of the market could end up be tell that an unaffordable rent rise be acceptable under this system . we need guarantee that the use of a tribunal will resolve that , and that it be available and accessible to tenant . in Scotland , only a handful of rent increase case a year go through the tribunal system to the rent officer , and it would severely undermine the Bill if tenant who be be exploit do not take up the option available to they . I would be grateful if the Minister could explain how the Government will encourage the take - up of such a provision , and whether he will support the alternative measure and safeguard in the Bill , such as amendment 9 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) . finally , a number of amendment have touch on the vital issue of home adaptation in the private rental sector . it be not fair that disabled tenant end up with reduce access to their own home . the Government be rightly look at make it easy for disabled people to thrive in the workplace , but what be the point of someone thrive if they do not even have an adequate home or housing ? we can not expect someone to go out and work and contribute to the economy if they have not have a good night ' s sleep . can any of we imagine be unable to have a shower in our own flat because the landlord refuse to make the necessary adaptation , or try to cook in a kitchen when we can not even reach the worktop ? none of we would want to live in such condition , yet that be the reality for many disabled people in the private rent sector in 2025 in the UK . People face such issue on a daily basis , with more challenge and blockage when try to get private landlord to address they . I urge the Government to ensure that disabled people do not face a private rent sector that be far too often completely inaccessible to they . I look forward to the Government respond to the report by my Committee ' s predecessor on disabled people in the housing sector . the House must continue to look at how we fight for a rental sector that work for everyone , regardless of their background . I be privileged to serve on the Bill Committee , and it be good to see many fellow member of the Committee in the House this afternoon . before I start , I wish to pay tribute to the many excellent landlord across our country . the Bill have be design to tackle the bad offender , but it be worth put on the record that thousand upon thousand of landlord do a good job of provide long - term accommodation for many people in the private rent sector . on Second Reading and in Committee we speak about the unintended consequence that exist in the Bill , some of which still remain — that be allude to by my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . my hon . friend raise an important point about unintended consequence . do she agree that it be important we consider our key worker , such as NHS staff and police , who rely on accommodation tie to their employment ? with the abolition of assured shorthold tenancy , it be important to ensure that provision be there to support such tenancy , so that they can continue and we can retain and attract much - need police officer and NHS staff . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and that be a perfect example of one of the unintended consequence that I do not believe have be put in deliberately but be something that we might see as a result of the Bill . other issue include accidental landlord — those who do not intend to be landlord and be not large portfolio holder — and small landlord , and we have already hear from my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner about the challenge they face regard economic driver and the risk of the market shrink . we talk a lot about that on Second Reading , but ultimately landlord be leave the market , and if there be few home for people to rent , we be in a bad situation . I support new clause 20 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner . I believe a review of the Bill ' s impact on the housing market after a year be important to ensure that we make it even well than it already be , and to address those unintended consequence . we can all agree that be important , give the challenge we have already hear about regard the long housing waiting list and the homelessness rife across our country . it be also important to listen to landlord . in particular , I draw attention to some of the reason why new clause 20 be so important . Plymouth Access to Housing , know as PATH , be a key player in tackle homelessness in my constituency , and it work especially with those who be hard to place into accommodation . it have rightly say that it support the Bill in principle — as we have hear , the opposition support large part of it too — but in a buoyant private rental market . it be concerned that it be not buoyant , so there be already a challenge . that be why a review would be important . PATH also say that it have receive funding in the past to support landlord to stay in the private rent sector . what plan do the Minister have , perhaps outside of this Bill , to ensure that such organisation , in which some member present today have work , might be able to mitigate the impact of some of those future challenge ? the South West Landlords Association , which I have mention , would benefit from new clause 20 , because it would allow for an assessment of a provision that essentially amount to a doubling of the amount of rent arrear that can be accrue and of the notice require for possession before a landlord can get somebody out of their property . landlord be particularly concerned about that , for the financial reason we have already set out . if they have to wait for three month of arrear and then another month ' s notice before they can remove someone from their property when they have not be pay rent , that have a massive impact on small landlord , and on those accidental landlord in particular — that be nearly half a year of income they would lose . ultimately , it be the luck of the draw . we do not know in advance how good tenant will be . if someone have an excellent tenant , it be not a problem , but with a bad tenant it be not so good . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . do she agree that , fundamentally , the only way to secure the right of tenant be to ensure the buoyant rental market that she be talk about , where landlord want to enter and invest in it ? they be then compete for tenant in the market , which be the big and most powerful force of all . that will drive decent behaviour towards tenant , and without that , landlord can not gain and retain tenant . I appreciate the point that my right hon . friend make . I agree that the market be important , but I also appreciate that there be some whom the market have fail . we have to find a situation where those who be not look after by their landlord can receive support , but , as I have already say , my concern be that the Bill go too far in the opposite direction . with the freedom of be on the Back Benches , I can say that the last Conservative Government get this wrong . when they stop landlord be able to offset the interest payment on the mortgage for that commercial asset against their income , it be one step among many that reduce the number of landlord come into the market . each step along the way , instead of seek to strengthen the market , successive government — Conservative then , and the process be bind to be complete by Labour now — move against landlord to make it a less and less investable asset . ultimately , those who lose out most be tenant . I agree with my right hon . friend that ultimately tenant be at risk of lose out if there be no property leave in the market . that lead I on to my next point and one of the other reason why an assessment would be useful in the light of new clause 20 . we hear in Committee that rural landlord be particularly concerned . accord to the Country Land and Business Association , 44 % of landlord be plan to sell in the next two year , and only 21 % be plan to build new property . when 90 % of those plan to leave cite reform to the private rent sector as a reason , we need an opportunity to reflect and to see the impact assessment . have set out some of my reason for support new clause 20 , I will turn briefly to new clause 15 , which have be mention many time already . I appreciate why it have be table in the tragic circumstance that have be lay out . in the light of some conversation we have in Committee , I be interested to see who be in scope to be consider family for the purpose of that guarantor system . the new clause list " child … grandchild … parent … grandparent … sibling … niece or nephew … aunt or uncle … or , a cousin " . that be a wide but — I think we would all agree — highly realistic view of what family be . however , in schedule 1 to the Bill , a landlord can only evict an exist tenant to house a parent , grandparent , sibling , child or grandchild . I raise this matter with the Minister in Committee , and I know that he think tenant ' right would be inhibit if we extend the definition of family , but I find it puzzle that a wide extended family be justify in new clause 15 , but not in the determination of who live in a property under schedule 1 . often , those family member may be vulnerable themselves and need somewhere to live . it be a niche point , but for the Government to say that someone can not house their niece or nephew — or , in the light of new clause 15 , their aunt , uncle or cousin — feel like an overreach of the state . we be slightly test ownership right and restrict trust and freedom in society as a result . briefly , I be not a big fan of amendment 7 . it list some excessive detail for what have to be provide in the landlord register , in particular the landlord ' s name and address . we all know how worried we be about our name and address be in the public domain , and expect landlord , who be ultimately business people , to do the same be one step too far . we also need to look at when a conviction for be a bad landlord be spend . if a landlord be reform at some point , we have to give they the opportunity to show that and ultimately provide home as a result . finally , I support new clause 6 , table by the hon . member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) , on look - after child . this issue come up in last week ' s debate on the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , and I speak to it then . we need to do more to ensure that as corporate parent , which ultimately every single local authority be , we act like parent and that wide family . if a young person need a deposit or a rent guarantee to enable they to get into the private rent sector when other option for housing be not available , we should look at that . I be not sure whether that measure will be vote on today , but in principle the hon . Lady have my support , and I hope we will be able to work together on that . I be pleased to serve on the Public Bill Committee for this legislation , which be a concrete example of the positive difference that this Labour Government be make to people ' s life . I fundamentally believe that everyone should have somewhere they can call home and that they should feel secure in that home . the Bill will deliver massive improvement for the million of tenant in the private rent sector , who for too long have be force to pay over the odd for housing that be often inadequate and insecure . it finally address the clear imbalance of power between landlord and tenant by level the play field through the delivery of a once - in - a - generation boost to tenant ' right , move away from expensive , precarious , poor - quality accommodation and end a status quo that have leave tenant under the constant threat of lose their home . on the Bill Committee , we hear evidence of landlord demand multiple month of rent up front at the start of a tenancy . that highly exclusionary practice shut low income renter out of the market by require they to hand over thousand of pound on top of their deposit at the start of a tenancy . the spread of this practice would have a devastating impact on the choice available to many tenant , so I warmly welcome new clause 13 and 14 in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , which address the issue . turn to section 21 eviction , one of the absolute privilege of be an MP be go to visit local school to answer question from pupil . those question can be about anything , but they normally relate to the interest and experience of the child , such as , " what can you do about the traffic ? " , " how can you make my park and playground well ? " , and even — this be a real one — " I really like tree . do you like tree ? " on a recent visit to St Andrew ' s primary school in Eccles , I be give a poignant reminder of why we be here and why this Bill be so important . one of the pupil ask I , " what be you do to stop people be kick out of their home for no reason ? " it be a shocking question to hear from someone so young , and it serve as an appalling illustration of how wide the fear of no - fault eviction be . no child should even know what a section 21 eviction be , and no child should live in fear of lose their home . we can not allow these eviction to continue . for I , that be the most critical part of the Bill . it be beyond time to end the spectre of homelessness that hang over these tenant and end section 21 eviction , give people a steady , strong , secure foundation to build their life around . unfortunately , no - fault eviction be just one of the many challenge face tenant . action to tackle unaffordable rent be badly need , which be why the measure in the Bill to end rental bidding war and stop the use of unreasonable rent increase design to drive out tenant be so important . never - end rent increase be bad for tenant and bad for the economy , absorb money that could be spend more productively elsewhere . I welcome the measure in the Bill to drive up standard across the sector , such as the application of the decent home standard and the establishment of a private rent sector database . all of those reform be entirely necessary in a market where , year after year , tenant be expect to pay more for less . it be hard to overstate the impact that housing have on people ' s life or the detrimental effect cause by the sector ' s current flaw . the Bill ' s reform decisively rebalance a broken sector , end the scandal of no - fault eviction and encourage the market to provide affordable , high - quality accommodation with security of tenure . the Bill represent real and meaningful action , which we all should welcome . many of we be describe as either a dog person or a cat person . I have have my dog for over five year now , and as a result I definitely feel like a dog person . joke aside , it be quite clear that we as a country be in love with our pet ; so many of we be define by they . the law that govern we should reflect how we live and how we choose to live , but our lack of respect for people ' s ability to bring a pet into their home be shocking . that be why I be pleased with the Bill . sadly , there be gap for pet owner in the rental market in particular , which not only create an uneven playing field for people choose new home but fill animal shelter with much - love pet that should be in their stable home . many pet be in animal shelter because of landlord ' unfair rule introduce over the year . accord to research conduct by Battersea Dogs and Cats Home , only 8 % of private landlord list their property as pet - friendly . I do not just want to talk about statistic , as the number have real - life consequence for family and animal . in my constituency of Woking , a woman along with her family be evict after 16 year of a tenancy because the landlord decide to sell the property . the council try to find alternative housing for the family but repeatedly come up against obstacle , include a no pet policy , which would have force she and her family to give up their three cat , include one that her autistic son be emotionally bond to — his emotional support pet . a letter from the GP state how important the cat be to her child ' s wellbee , but it do not help . the cat reduce her son ' s anxiety level and help he with his day - to - day functioning — it have a huge impact . housing officer note that they could have consider the family for a place in some new flat that the council have build , but the housing provider do not accept pet . sadly , that case , which be not unique , perfectly illustrate the emotional toll that the rule can have on family , particularly those with additional need . pet ownership might seem like a small issue in the face of homelessness , eviction and the heart - wrench issue that we have hear about , but it be clear that sometimes , because there be no protection for family with pet , people be force into a horrible situation . it be fair to say that the culture of a country should be reflect in the law that govern it , and most of we have pet , so let we ensure that we be allow to keep they . I be pleased to hear my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) pursue my party ' s amendment , and I be pleased to hear from the Chair of my Select Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . there have be much cross - party support for the Bill , while we push the Government to go far still . as supportive as I be of the Bill , it could be well and help reduce our casework of heart - wrench story of vulnerable tenant push out and treat badly by landlord . the Bill will help we , but , through the amendment table and other that I know will be propose in the other place , it could be well . I declare an interest : like one in three household in my constituency , I rent my home . as a renter and an MP who represent a large number of renter , it will come as no surprise that I rise to speak in favour of the Bill , which will bring in some important , long - overdue reform to provide private renter with decent and secure home . crucially , I be pleased to see the abolition of section 21 eviction , which be promise by the Conservative party , include in its 2019 manifesto , but never deliver . close to a million people face no - fault eviction notice in the last Parliament because of that failure , which add to the homelessness crisis that we now face . I be happy to see measure in the Bill that focus on affordability . in my borough of Lambeth , rent a one - bedroom home now cost the average person more than half their take - home pay . when teacher , rail staff , nurse and other key worker go on strike to call for inflation - match pay rise , the last Government attack they and reject their demand , call they greedy , but that Government shrug their shoulder as private landlord collect above - inflation rent hike from some of those same key worker year after year . in recent year , the situation have be particularly pronounce . in March 2024 , the Office for National Statistics report that monthly rent rise by 9 . 1 % , the high annual increase since record begin in 2015 . I be glad that the Bill bring some common sense to the situation , ensure that rent increase can no long be write into contract and that landlord will be able to legally increase rent only once a year , and protect tenant from egregious rent hike . also highly positive be the new measure to strengthen enforcement against slum private landlord , to extend the decent home standard to the private rental sector and to widen council enforcement power while extend the range of financial penalty available to local authority to fund enforcement activity . I be pleased that the Bill legislate for a consultation on improve energy efficiency standard in rent home . the UK have some of the most energy inefficient home in Europe , with 2 . 6 million private rent home fall below minimum energy efficiency standard in England and Wales alone . almost a quarter of renter live in fuel poverty , the high rate of any tenure . the Bill contain important measure to provide renter with some basic security and to place some basic responsibility on landlord . however , so much more could be do to strengthen it . I be pleased to see that the Government be support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , and I be pleased to support amendment 9 , 5 and 6 table by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) , which would well protect sit tenant from unaffordable rent increase . in its current form , the Bill cap rent increase only at market rate — the price that landlord set . the amendment would instead cap they at the rate of the consumer price index or wage growth , whichever be the low . I have yet to hear a compelling reason why landlord should see their income grow fast than people who actually work for a living . I place on record my support for the Renters ' Reform Coalition ' s call for a national rental affordability commission , to investigate method to bring down rent relative to income . . although there be not many member on the Opposition Benches , the few speech that they have make have talk about home almost entirely as asset , forget that people need to live in they . I welcome the amendment that remember that people with a variety of different circumstance be live in those home , and they should be view with compassion . I welcome and support new clause 10 table by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , as well as new clause 9 table by the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) on adaptation for disabled people . it be welcome that the legislation would make it illegal to discriminate against benefit claimant and family for exactly the same reason . I would like further change to prevent discrimination , such as scrap right - to - rent check and reform the law around guarantor more generally . I would like the legislation to go far on prevent illegal and back - door eviction . as the London Renters Union have point out , for the many family struggle with housing cost , a 20 % rent hike be simply a no - fault eviction under a different name . during my time as an MP , I have see too many unscrupulous attempt to remove tenant to be unconcerned about a likely increase in illegal eviction in response to scrap section 21 . I welcome new enforcement power , but we have to acknowledge the financial difficulty that local authority face after 14 year of massive cut . the Government must ensure that local authority have the resource to use these enforcement power . finally , on disrepair , tenant should have the right to withhold rent when repair be not carry out within appropriate timescale . that happen far too often . too many renter be pay for a shoddy service and to live in awful condition . too many renter , young people in particular , face a despairing future of spend a lifetime as private renter , and be leave live in dire condition of extreme disrepair while continue to have to pay their full rental amount each month , lest they face eviction . the Bill should provide that they have the right to withhold rent in such circumstance , thereby support its state intention of ensure that the decent home standard apply to the private rent sector . more generally , renter have be neglect across different piece of legislation over the year . if this landmark Bill be truly to reform the rental sector and shift the balance of power to create a more equal relationship between renter and landlord , more need to be do . I urge the Government to agree to the amendment . I broadly welcome the Bill and the strength and protection that it will provide private tenant . I associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) and the amendment that he and my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) have table . I wish to focus on one aspect of the Bill to see if I can encourage some last - minute reconsideration by the Minister . the Government recently repurchase more than 36 , 000 Ministry of Defence property from the private sector . this move be a step in the right direction , yet many property , include those in my constituency of Bicester and Woodstock , have fall into disrepair , have fail to be manage properly , and be now substandard or unsafe . service personnel and their family live in Ministry of Defence accommodation in Ambrosden and in Caversfield in my constituency have express frustration with the current management and maintenance company . liberal Democrats be clear that our service personnel and their family deserve the same decent standard that the Government be propose for the rest of the private rent sector . I be proud to support amendment 3 table by my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington . will the Government now commit to use the Bill to ensure that the recently reacquire Ministry of Defence accommodation will be cover by the decent home standard , so that those live in service family accommodation in my constituency can access safe , weathertight and warm accommodation ? in response to my hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) the Minister argue that it would not be appropriate to extend the decent home standard to service family accommodation . will he therefore clarify , so that I can inform my constituent , whether they should expect to live in service family accommodation that meet that standard and , if they should , how and to whom they can appeal if the accommodation continue to fall below that standard ? there be concern that military accommodation , which I have in my constituency , be not include in the Bill , but one of my main concern be the immense cut in funding to that accommodation . the property be in such a state of disrepair that the Government have have to go back and re - buy they . do the hon . Gentleman agree that there be a large issue , which we need to deal with when look at the Armed Forces Commissioner role ? I wholeheartedly agree . the Ministry of Defence ' s service family accommodation estate be in disrepair because of a significant lack of investment by the last government , which fail to maintain the standard that should be enjoy by our hard - work and dedicated service personnel and their family . however , the fact that this Government have make the welcome step to purchase that estate mean that it be now their obligation to uphold standard . as we be talk about legislation that be intend to set the standard that all renter should expect , include those who be pay rent now to the Ministry of Defence for their accommodation , why be the Government resist the opportunity to set that high standard for service personnel ? finally , in the note to the Bill , the Government emphasise that the concern that lead to Awaab ' s law will now be extend to the private rent sector . give how serious those concern be , and give that the death occur as a result of a failure to maintain property in the social rent sector , will the Minister tell I how I can go back to my constituent , who be tenant of the Ministry of Defence , and tell they they will enjoy the same protection as other private renter under Awaab ' s law ? stability for 11 million renter , and , indeed , for 2 . 3 million landlord , be necessary to build our well Britain . for the tenant endure the least affordable , poor quality housing , disregarded renter ' right have have a profound impact on people ' s life . Britain deserve more than dodgy landlord , back - door eviction and dismal living standard . the british people deserve to feel secure in their own home . some of my constituent be force to live in terrible accommodation , face damp and mould . this treatment be fundamentally unacceptable . the Defence Committee ' s recent report describe service accommodation as " shocking " , say that two third require massive investment to bring it up to standard and that damp and mould be legion . the hon . Gentleman talk of dodgy landlord — would he characterise the Ministry of Defence as one ? should we be bring those home up to the decent home standard that everyone else in the country will benefit from if the Bill be pass ? in his opening remark , the Minister address the fact that there be issue in the space , but they go beyond the scope of the Bill . we need to continue have these conversation as we move forward . the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point . conservative failure have lead to more than 200 , 000 household with child be force to live in privately rent damp and squalid home . accord to the Guardian , each year , 31 , 000 child age four and under be admit to hospital because of damp and mould - relate issue . I strongly believe that this simply can not be allow to continue . Shelter have recently find that a quarter of renter be afraid to ask their landlord for basic repair for fear of be evict , and that 26 , 000 household be at risk of be make homeless from the no - fault eviction we have be discuss today . we need to change , and fast . the abolition of section 21 will end these no - fault eviction for good . this be a vital part of this legislation , which will ensure peace of mind for tenant in their own home , to which they devote a sizeable portion of their income . pressure on local authority to provide temporary accommodation have become totally unsustainable . crisis estimate that £ 2 . 2 billion of council fund in England be spend on temporary accommodation for 120 , 000 household between 2023 and 2024 — an increase from 85 , 000 in 2019 . my good colleague at Erewash borough council tell I that they spend three time more on alternative accommodation in 2024 than in 2019 . these temporary measure be incredibly costly and ultimately untenable . with accommodation include bed and breakfast and hotel , alternative housing be an inadequate long - term solution . the Bill will make an excellent start to save council taxpayer ' money and protect tenant ' welfare from unsuitable temporary accommodation . the vital extension of Awaab ' s law to include private rental property will prevent unsafe living condition , landlord discrimination and bidding on rental property . prospective tenant in the housing crisis simply can not afford bidding war aim at price they out . discrimination base on receipt of benefit and have child will be prevent , ensure an inclusive and impartial rental market . hazardous property will require prompt and efficient landlord response , and tenant will be protect from unjustifiable rent inflation . today , while we have be debate the Bill , I have receive a communication from a constituent whose rental price recently go up by 21 % , which be disgusting . the measure be essential for the efficient operation of rental market in the UK and for the protection of tenant ' right . the much - need introduction of the decent home standard will far empower tenant to leave poor - quality home and provide well value housing for all . accord to the English housing survey 2023 , one in five privately rent home be consider substandard . the enforcement of the decent home standard will put an end to this appalling practice . with the introduction of a £ 7 , 000 penalty for non - compliance , landlord will finally be properly incentivise to maintain the necessary high standard that renter deserve . new legal protection will secure quick , impartial , bind resolution to protect both renter and landlord . give the new private rent sector landlord ombudsman and the strengthen council enforcement for which the Bill provide , tenant and adult will feel assured that their concern be respect and will be handle with compassion and certainty . the Bill will allow we to end backdoor eviction and extortionate rent design to force renter out . periodic tenancy ensure that rent increase be make per the market rate , once a year , will protect renter from unreasonable increase and unexpected eviction . access to a private rented sector database will help landlord to understand their legal obligation and demonstrate compliance with the new regulation . these measure will allow for certainty in the law for both landlord and tenant . I understand that landlord be concerned about invest and enter the market for fear of payment insecurity , but the current system be design around uncertainty . the serious lack of clear legislation have cause decade of chaos for both landlord and tenant , with unsafe home and unsuitable dispute resolution . a transparent and fair system be need so that all party can make informed decision . as for student accommodation , the change propose in the Bill be necessary for the protection of landlord and student alike . student deserve security as much as everyone else in society . the assured continuance of annual short - term student tenancy will still provide certainty in respect of landlord income , with the ability to evict tenant at the end of the academic year and to increase rent for new tenant as require . accord to the National Union of Students , " the average student loan . . . leave student with just 50p a week to live off after … rent " . despite those extortionate cost , cold , damp , unsuitable housing have become the norm in student accommodation . student be at risk of be unable to pay for basic essential , so it be vital that they be protect from live in poor condition under unfair term . the Bill will extend vital safety and reassurance to thousand of people in Erewash . my constituent can not continue to endure poor housing at the hand of inadequate renter ' legislation ; they deserve security in their own home . the Renters ' Rights Bill be our way forward , and I urge all member to support it , as amend today by the Government . it be a pleasure to be call to speak in today ' s debate on such an important topic . the Bill have many laudable aim , and represent a once - in - a generation opportunity to finally fix the private rent sector for the 11 million people in England — include I — who rent privately . I know that about 13 , 000 private renter in Tiverton and Minehead will be watch this debate with interest — particularly Owein and his family , whom it take I six month to rehome early this year — in the hope and expectation that the House can finally do what it promise to do under the last government , and pass meaningful rental sector reform . that Conservative Government neglect renter , and I be pleased that this Government be introduce meaningful legislation now . Tiverton and Minehead sit at 88th out of 543 constituency in England on the barrier to housing and service index of deprivation . I will think closely about anything that the Government can do to improve that , to ensure that it represent a fair deal for renter , particularly those in my constituency . let I start by state the obvious . this be a good Bill , on the whole . it take strong step to protect tenant , especially when landlord be not maintain their property . provision such as Awaab ' s law should and must be extend to the private rented sector , so that landlord have a duty to fix hazardous living condition like those that cost that precious toddler his life , within a set timeframe . shelter be a basic need , not just a want . I be very pleased that the Bill seek to apply the decent home standard to the private rent sector for the first time : such an extension be overdue , and very welcome . as a pet owner , I be happy to see in the legislation the right for tenant to request a pet . pet be often an integral part of the family , as they have be for I . my party ' s former spokesperson on this issue , my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , welcome the inclusion of this measure in a previous iteration of the Bill , and I echo that welcome . the Bill should be commend for its ambition in many sector . for example , it create a national private rent sector database , so that tenant know about their landlord . it also look to stop bid war , and to ban in - tenancy rent increase be write into the contract . those be all fantastic reason to support the Bill today . I understand that the Government want the Bill to support cheap and quick resolution where there be dispute about a lease arrangement . that be a laudable aim , but I worry about the effect on rural landlord . I welcome the removal of section 21 no - fault eviction from the rental market , but rural landlord say that issue will arise from the implementation date of the measure not be know ; it will come into effect on Royal Assent . everyone — renter and landlord — be very keen to hear firm news on that , while respect the fact that the Bill will have to pass through the other place . there be also nuance to be iron out regard the status of agricultural landlord . I would welcome any reflection from the Minister on how the Bill can suitably reflect the concern of the 85 % of rural business that provide accommodation as part of their offer to attract staff . the Bill do make some great stride , but we have the chance to go far , fast and well , and I hope that member across the House agree . as I represent Tiverton and Minehead , where more household include a veteran than the national average , I explicitly echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) about amendment 3 , which call for an extension of the decent home standard to Ministry of Defence service family accommodation . that should be welcome across the whole House , but if it be not vote on today or support , I would still urge the Secretary of State to look at the proposal and seriously consider enact it for those who spend their life serve our country , and for their family . we have all see the inflationary pressure on the cost of energy in recent year , especially in rural area , where people often pay a rural premium for thing . the Bill need to push for improved energy efficiency standard in rent housing . I join my liberal Democrat colleague in ask the Government to reintroduce the requirement on landlord to upgrade the energy efficiency of their home to an energy performance certificate rating of C or above by 2028 . too many tenant live in subpar housing , which make they ill and cost the NHS money . the Government might not want to listen on the impact of the winter fuel allowance cut , but I hope they will proactively take step to insulate against fuel poverty . how can we check that the Bill be work ? there be no point in seek to improve the lot of those who rent property if it just mean that landlord shift how they categorise their property , so that they can keep go about their business as they do before . I therefore add my public support to new clause 2 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington , which call on the Secretary of State to review whether the prohibition on fix - term contract have increase the number of landlord choose to offer short - term let instead of let in the private rent sector . I simply ask the Government what they have to lose by accept the new clause . my liberal Democrat colleague and I welcome the new Government ' s bring forward legislation to improve the situation for renter . we have be scrutinise it carefully , to ensure that renter really do get the fair deal that they deserve . it be a step forward , and I will support it , but I urge the Government to go far and take up the challenge of improve the Bill , so that it truly represent the seizing of this once - in - a - generation opportunity . I join colleague from across the House in say that I be proud to serve on the Public Bill Committee . for too long , tenant in my constituency of Gillingham and Rainham have be at the mercy of a break rental market . the system have go unchecked for the last few decade , and leave renter with a lack of security , limited right and too often no choice but to live in unacceptable condition . the previous Government promise change . minister stand at the Dispatch Box and assure the public that they would deliver fair reform in the rental sector , yet they fail . they kick the can down the road , while tenant face soar rent , substandard housing and the ever - present threat of lose their home at a moment ' s notice . the failure to address the housing crisis be perhaps one of the most glaring legacy of the last government . the number of people rent privately have explode . many be rent not from choice , but because it be the only option . in Gillingham and Rainham , 22 % of household now live in the private rented sector , and rent have rise sharply over the last decade . family , young people and old resident alike feel trap . they be lock out of home ownership and housing security , and lock into pay for home that be too often cold , damp or unsafe . recently , my inbox have be full of story of constituent who have be evict through section 21 eviction . Pat Cooper , for example , be tell just before Christmas that she would have to leave her home of 35 year . it have leave she feeling incredibly distressed , face real uncertainty about what the future hold for she , with limited choice that she can afford . there be countless similar story of people who have be plunge into uncertainty and the risk of homelessness because of no - fault eviction . the previous Government have every opportunity to end this injustice , but they choose delay and inaction over the wellbeing of often vulnerable family . my constituent know that this Government be different . within their first 100 day , they have bring forward this landmark legislation , which I know will deliver the security , dignity and fairness that renter in my constituency deserve . I welcome the fact that the Bill will end the scourge of no - fault eviction once and for all . I welcome the decent home standard be extend to the private rented sector ; that will guarantee that tenant no long have to put up with mould , disrepair or unsafe condition . crucially , I welcome the introduction of an ombudsman to hold accountable those who do not uphold the law , and to give tenant a clear route to justice . I thank the Minister for consider representation from member of different party and the amendment in front of we , which introduce new rule to cap advance rent payment and provide safeguard for bereaved family — something that have be speak about powerfully today . this Bill send a clear message : it be the end of the era of unchecked power for landlord who do not want to follow the rule . for far too long , too many tenant have be treat as second - class citizen in their own home , and I be glad to see that this Government be put an end to that . it be high time that renter across the country be treat with the fairness , dignity and respect that they deserve , and I be proud to support this Bill as it progress through this place and the other place . it will give my constituent their basic right . rise — before I call the next speaker , who I be sure will speak to her amendment , I remind member that on Report we should consider the amendment and new clause to the Bill ; the debate be neither a rehash of Second Reading , nor a precursor to Third Reading . I should declare that I be a member of the Association of Community Organisations for Reform now , which campaign on renter ’ right . I thank it for its important work on this Bill , include alongside I . the Bill be hugely welcome , but it can and should go far to fix the grave and urgent housing crisis . I therefore rise to speak to my new clause 7 , on rent control and affordability ; new clause 9 , on home adaptation for disabled people ; and new clause 17 and 18 , on selective licencing scheme . I also want to put on the record my strong support for a number of amendment table by other , include the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , and for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) . we have people live on the street and in temporary accommodation because they can not afford their rent . new clause 7 propose a live rent body , which would set the rule that apply to the calculation of rent between tenancy . that would control rent and make they fair , consider factor such as the home ' s property type , condition and size , average local income and so on . local flexibility will be important . the measure be need . the Bill give renter a once - in - a - generation set of new right that they have long be deny , but rent control be still need , because it be no help to anyone if they have a right to something that they can not afford or access . once the Bill do away with section 21 , we will need rent control to prevent rogue landlord from instead hike rent to kick people out . the Government ' s change to the tribunal system do not go far enough to protect renter from that . first , most tenant do not have the time or energy to navigate the system . secondly , tribunal panel judge only judge whether a rent rise be fair compare with market rate , and the market rate be too high . we have a generation of people who will never be able to earn enough to have a mortgage , and who can not even afford their rent now . if a 21 - year - old in my home city of Bristol rent a single room today at the average rate , they will have put £ 80 , 000 into their landlord ' s bank account by their 30th birthday . no wonder that a third of private renter struggle with their housing cost . new clause 7 address the plain fact that the market be fail , with terrible cost for people who be struggle and make homeless . there be huge economic cost , too ; the Government be set to pay private landlord £ 70 billion of taxpayer ' money in the five year from 2021 to 2026 . that be multiple time the spend on new affordable home . surely that be the wrong way round . we can add to that the huge annual spend on temporary accommodation , which cost council at least £ 1 . 74 billion in 2022 - 23 . rent rise be far outstrip inflation . the Deposit Protection Service rental index find that rent outstrip inflation by one third in 2023 . rightmove report show that ask rent outside London have rise 60 % since 2020 , and I assume that I do not have to tell the House that income have not grow by the same amount . as I set out in Committee , discussion be vital if we be to avoid unintended consequence , and I do not dismiss the importance of that detailed work . at the same time , we can not ignore the acute affordability crisis for renter . key worker be be force out of city , and people be be force out of community that they have make their home . the average rent in my constituency of Bristol Central have hit nearly £ 1 , 800 a month . I know what the criticism will be , but let I remind the House that rent control be an established part of private renting in 16 european country , where they be a completely normal part of housing policy . it be interesting that private renter in England spend a high proportion of their income on rent than those in any european country apart from Luxembourg and Norway . our home be in bad condition , too . rent control be of course not a panacea . they be need alongside a suite of housing policy , and increase social housing supply be really important . however , the private rented sector be in an affordability crisis now , and it will take huge amount of effort and time , even with the good will in the world , to increase the social housing supply on a scale that will impact private rent . modelling from Generation Rent and other economist predict that build 1 . 5 million home over this Parliament will decrease the private rent burden by just over 1 % . move on to new clause 9 , there be 16 million disabled people in the UK — more than a fifth of the population — and 19 % of they live in the private rent sector . the Equality and Human Rights Commission estimate that a shocking one in three disabled people in the private rent sector live in unsuitable accommodation , and a Government survey reveal that an appalling 44 % of private landlord have say that they will not rent to someone who require home adaptation . my amendment seek to ensure that , if all tenant can put up shelf , disabled tenant should be allow to put up grab rail . if all tenant can replace a showerhead , disabled tenant should be allow to put in accessible washing facility . it be not acceptable that disabled tenant must get permission for these most basic adaptation . in Committee , the Minister be sympathetic to my concern but argue that the Equality Act 2010 already cover this issue . however , it clearly be not do the job . disabled people be explain this very clearly and patiently , as do the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , whom I thank . the Equality Act be underuse in housing law for several reason . first , what amount to a reasonable request be poorly define . secondly , the law refer to change in physical feature , but the charity Disability Rights UK tell we that some landlord still refuse . and thirdly , the hassle and delay in appeal an adaptation refusal , give the major backlog in the court , make it prohibitive for many and unfairly put the onus on the tenant . I sincerely hope the Minister will take another look at this issue , which be so important to so many people , and I hope that member will vote with I on my amendment later today . new clause 17 and 18 would remove unnecessary barrier to the use of licensing scheme to improve housing standard . this matter because private renter often face terrible condition . constituent tell I about mould and damp , short fire alarm and electric , rat infestation and , recently , student renter be leave without a working boiler for a whole month . I could go on . licensing scheme be vital because they enable local authority to target regulation where it be need most , on tackle the bad landlord and support the most vulnerable tenant . new clause 17 would enable local authority operate selective licensing scheme to use the condition of those licensing scheme to improve housing quality directly . there be currently a strange disconnect in the Housing Act 2004 , highlight by the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health , where local authority can introduce selective licensing scheme to address poor housing but can not include condition in the licence require the physical state of the licensed property to be improve . by contrast , additional licensing scheme for house in multiple occupation can include such condition . my new clause 17 simply seek to close this hole by amend section 90 of the Housing Act to enable local authority to use licensing condition to improve housing standard . the complementary new clause 18 would increase the maximum duration of HMO licensing scheme and selective licensing scheme from five to 10 year . give that these scheme cost a fair bit to set up in the first place , it do not make sense for local authority to be limit to only five year of operation . the extension would allow local authority to advertise long - term staff post , include training for new staff , and would allow more time for local partnership to be set up . unfortunately , the lack of time today mean that we will not be able to vote on all four of my amendment , but I would like to test the will of the House on new clause 9 , on adaptation for disabled people . this be not party political , and it be surely not controversial , so we should be able to agree on this today . turn to my other amendment , I sincerely hope that the Minister will consider the need for bold move to create a system that really tackle the affordability crisis that private renter now face , so that all citizen in this country can access a safe , stable and affordable home . I must declare an interest : my husband work for an organisation that fund the Renters ' Reform Coalition , which have be refer to today . it be a privilege to speak in this debate after serve on the Bill Committee , which take a thorough approach to each element of the Bill . this topic be of great importance to I , I have work in housing for my entire work life and represent 27 , 000 private renter in the Cities of London and Westminster . I speak today think of those constituent and their experience . one landlord revoke a promise to provide free heating for their tenant ' s home , lead to it become infest with mould . the landlord later refuse to respond to repeat report of pest in the property , before subsequently charge that tenant £ 1 , 500 to fumigate the house . I also bear in mind my constituent who be evict under a section 21 notice , be now live in temporary accommodation with three child and have be on the social housing waiting list for nearly 15 year . after be let down by dither and delay from the member on the conservative Benches when they be in Government , renter such as my constituent have be deny the crucial power to hold their landlord to account in even the most basic fashion . if those member have deliver on their promise and tackle the dissenter in their midst , renter would already have the protection that we be introduce in this legislation . yet the opposition have the audacity to claim that the legislation and principle that they have try to introduce when they be in power will , mysteriously , not work now . on the amendment , the Opposition claim that the legislation will lead to landlord exit the market , but they repeatedly fail to suggest where the home own by landlord would go . even in his case for new clause 20 , the shadow Minister start talk about where the home might go , so I take the opportunity to ask he directly whether he think the home would disappear . would he have rather let a home lie vacant than let it out or sell it if it be unprofitable ? and if a sale take place , would the mysterious buyer not live there ? I will happily give way if he want to answer — okay , he do not . to continue on to my main point , I want to focus on the part of the Bill that consider local authority enforcement and the new clause that address that . current regulation in the private rent sector have suffer from a lack of enforcement by local authority due to a lack of knowledge about private rent stock , limited enforcement capacity and the range and complexity of law relevant to enforcement . the legislation go a long way towards address those issue . the Bill put local authority clearly in the drive seat in enforce regulation , clean up the confusion of the past regime . it expand the range of civil penalty that can be use by local authority to crack down on poor behaviour . importantly , it introduce mandatory reporting for local authority ’ enforcement activity , ensure that council be accountable to their constituent and to central Government . the introduction of the private rent sector database will also fill a key gap in the exist regime : a lack of knowledge of the location and nature of private rent property . the remain gap in the regime will be fund , and it be essential that fee for the private rent sector database be sufficient to fund the enforcement measure in the Bill . it be therefore encouraging to see that recognise by Government amendment 40 , which I be happy to support . I support what the hon . Member say about resource for local government . do she also accept that there be a real problem , particularly in London , where there be simply a lack of advice available for tenant because the advice agency be completely overwhelmed and underfunded ? we therefore need to fund independent advice agency as well . I will come on to some of the incredible work that advice agency do in my constituency . funding will need to be meet with an active approach by local authority to recruit the right individual with the appropriate skill to act as inspector for the regime . additional funding may be need for the immediate recruitment and upskilling of inspector , and to deal with a backlog of case relate to enforce exist regulation . most importantly , landlord must have as many point of potential accountability as possible . that mean that report on enforcement activity should be publish publicly , with the naming and shaming of poor - perform landlord . the Bill mark not just an era of right for the million of private renter across the country , but a step change in the necessary enforcement activity by council and by renter themselves . the campaign group and advice agency that have stand up for renter for year , include Generation Rent and also Z2 K , which operate in my constituency , deserve a mountain of praise for their work in keep this issue on the agenda of party and actor across the political spectrum , and I pay tribute to they for their work . the scale of support that this Bill have from member on the Government Benches demonstrate the significance of this issue . it be important that we work together across Government and civil society to enforce this new right framework and provide renter with their long - overdue protection . I be sure that all member have plenty of example in their inboxe of why this Bill be so needed . recent case in my inbox have range from someone who have to wait two year for a boiler to be fix , to someone who have a home so damp that they can not walk through it without shoe on , as the carpet be permanently wet . they have have numerous electrical appliance fail and have lose their property to mould . bad of all , they be permanently ill . even the ombudsman find in their favour have not produce decisive action to address the problem . it be an outrage that people be live in such condition in the 21st century and , after the inaction of the previous Government , I welcome the approach set out in this Bill to fix hazard such as mould . I also welcome the security of tenancy . so often when people approach their MP about homelessness issue , they talk about the importance of be in a particular location . they say it be because their child be settle in their school , because they need to care for a relative who live there , and because they need the support of family and friend . repeatedly move around robs people of vital community link and stability . it also affect the life chance of child and young people . it be not only no - fault eviction that lead to people move around ; so too do rent rise . so I welcome the amendment of my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) to limit the maximum rent increase . far too many people be force out of their rental property by exorbitant rent rise , and this Bill do not go far enough to prevent that situation . the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) ask where the property will go . in some case , as our new clause 2 set out , they will go to people on short - term contract . we therefore need to consider the impact on the market as a whole . I wish to raise one small concern of a landlord about the impact that the change will have both on they and on their tenant . they own a single , upper - floor , leasehold flat . they own only the inside of the flat — not the exterior , the wall gap or the loft . the Bill ' s provision on energy efficiency and so forth be of concern to they . obviously , we want people to have home that they can afford to heat and that meet climate change obligation , but not all small landlord be scrupulous , and rely on they to be so be not appropriate protection for tenant . as the Bill progress , I ask the Minister to consider how the Government will support small landlord who want to do the right thing , so that the private rental sector do not become the sole preserve of well - heel , large landlord . I wonder whether I might provide some helpful clarification : this Bill have no provision in it that deal with minimum energy - efficiency standard in the private rent sector . the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero will shortly go out to consultation on those MEE standard for the prs , but it be not within the scope of this Bill . I thank the Minister for that clarification . in conclusion , I welcome the Bill and the protection it provide , but I urge Ministers to accept the liberal Democrat amendment put forward by my hon . friend the Members for Taunton and Wellington and for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) . this be groundbreake legislation , and I pay tribute to the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister for the excellent work that they have do so far . in October , I say in this place that my hon . friend the Minister for Housing and Planning , under the leadership of our Deputy Prime Minister , will get this job do , and they be do exactly that . this government be get on with the job . the previous Government make empty promise after empty promise , ultimately cave in to the landlord lobby on their own Benches . perhaps that be why the Opposition Benches be so empty today . the Bill go a long way towards redress the power imbalance between those who own asset and those who need to use such asset for the basic human need of housing and shelter . it will finally see an end to section 21 eviction . to boot , the Bill ensure a protect period at the beginning of a tenancy , the end of discrimination face by those in receipt of social security , an end to bidding war , and the rolling out of the decent home standard across the private rent sector . indeed , the Government have indicate their intention to strengthen the Bill far by limit the amount of rent payable in advance at the start of a tenancy . I have table several amendment , and I be grateful to the Minister for the constructive dialogue we have have to date , even if we do not agree on all of they . new clause 5 be about deposit reform . new clause 6 would provide help to care leaver by place a duty on local authority to help they pay or to guarantee any required deposit to enable they to agree a tenancy in the private rent sector . amendment 7 would introduce specific requirement for landlord and dwelling entry on the private rent sector database . amendment 8 would apply the decent home standard to all temporary accommodation . amendment 55 relate to landlord pass on the cost of grant scheme for energy efficiency improvement to tenant . I acknowledge that the Minister have say that the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero would probably be the most appropriate Department to have a dialogue with on that issue . of course , my amendment 5 , 6 and 9 look at rent stabilisation . I be also pleased to support amendment table by my hon . friend the Members for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) and for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . minister in this Department know all too well that , as with any legislation , I believe that we should look to go far . I hope that we can continue our constructive dialogue on these specific point in the month ahead . I thank Shelter , the Renter ' s Reform Coalition and Generation Rent for their engagement on the content of the Bill . I wholeheartedly agree with their assessment that affordability in the private rent sector must be tackle head - on . specifically on amendment 5 , 6 and 9 , it be all well and good the Government say that they do not support rent stabilisation , but as a country , we have to come back to this issue . that may not happen tomorrow or next month , but inevitably at some point we will have to , because the private rented sector have lose all sense of proportion , and on that , nothing will change . the problem of affordability will continue to get bad . like many right hon . and hon . member across the House , I be fortunate to be a homeowner . as representative , however , we should be acutely aware of the unaffordability of rent in south London , Greater Manchester and , of course , my home city of Liverpool and my constituency of Liverpool Wavertree . sadly , aside from those right hon . and hon . member with adult child , there be an ignorance among the homeowner in this place , who simply do not understand what it be to face life at the sharp end of the private rent sector . our city have a pull for this generation of young adult , and in those city we be leave they to the mercy of landlord and let agent . some let agent play a sinister role , often drive large - scale increase in rent for their own end . we hear all the time about struggle landlord who run business , but how many property do not have a mortgage next to their name ? I would suggest it be a considerable amount , yet rent continue to rise again and again . the reason we have the Bill in the first place be that , as a society , we have lose faith in the ability of the landlord class to regulate themselves , yet we continue to trust they on the rent they charge . for tenant to break free of hand a gargantuan proportion of their income to fund the passive income of the landlord class , the death of a grandparent or an early advance on their inheritance might help they out , if they be so lucky . this country have utterly fail a generation — the millennial , if you will — who be now not so young and be the first generation not to be well off than their parent by many metric . in nothing be that more true than housing . this housing crisis be what happen when we commodify a very basic human need . forty year on , we still live with the consequence of the thatcherite settlement that lay the foundation of the modern - day housing crisis . high rent cost the taxpayer considerably : they keep the homeless stuck in temporary accommodation , which cost our council billion and have put they on the verge of bankruptcy ; and they considerably burden the Department for Work and Pensions , whose local housing allowance routinely fail to keep pace with rent increase . labour government of the past have generally have a radical history on renting , and the Bill keep that tradition alive . it be Tony Crosland — not exactly from my wing of the party — who remark in the 1960 : " the landlord often look on house - property simply as an investment to give [ they ] a perpetual return with the minimum of expenditure … worse still , [ they ] wield a degree of personal power over [ their ] tenant which can be offensive and intolerable . " what Tony say in the ' 60 remain true in 2025 . I be disappointed that the Bill will not address affordability head - on , but I give it my wholehearted and enthusiastic support in the name of progress . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate , which be important to my constituent , and to I personally , as I grow up in rent accommodation . new clause 1 would limit the maximum rent that landlord can request or receive in advance to no more than two month - worth of the tenancy . excessive deposit mean that far too many people face exclusion from the housing market altogether . for family on low income , young tenant or those receive benefit , that practice can make find a home almost impossible . landlord increasingly use method such require rent in advance to exclude those they deem undesirable tenant . accord to the charity Shelter , 52 % of private landlord refuse to let to tenant receive housing benefit . by cap rent in advance , the new clause would help to level the play field and reduce the financial burden on those who be look for somewhere decent to live but can not get in the door because they be live pay cheque to pay cheque . amendment 1 would ensure that any rent increase be cap at a maximum rate in line with the Bank of England base rate . unchecked rent increase be drive family in Eastleigh and across the country into financial hardship . in the current system , unscrupulous landlord can impose excessive hike that effectively force tenant out . one couple in my constituency , who be already work two job to provide a home for their young child , be force out of their rent accommodation when their landlord hike their rent to an unaffordable level . they have no choice but to move to a small property that do not cater as well to their family ' s need . allow that practice to continue undermine the stability and security that the Bill seek to provide . link rent increase to the Bank of England base rate be both logical and fair . it would create predictability for tenant , while allow landlord to adjust rent reasonably in response to economic condition . office for National Statistics figure show that private rent in Eastleigh rise by 7 . 6 % in 2024 . the amendment would provide more protection for people who be struggle because of the cost of live crisis and can not pay extremely high rent . new clause 23 would ensure that landlord approve necessary home adaptation for disabled tenant where a professional home assessment have be carry out . one in three disabled people in private rent property live in unsuitable accommodation . the failure to secure appropriate housing can be life - limit and make regular activity such as access a bathroom or move between room very difficult . in England , 8 . 8 % of disabled people rely on the private rent sector because of the chronic shortage of social housing , yet private rented property be rarely accessible or adaptable , and only 6 . 6 % of disabled facility grant be use to make such home suitable for disabled renter . unsuitable housing not only hinder independence , but increase reliance on social care , lead to high hospital admission and reduce participation in work and community life . the amendment would ensure that disabled tenant have the autonomy and dignity to live independently in home suit to their need . finally , I express my support for amendment 10 , which would extend protection to student in HMO property . student be some of the most vulnerable renter , often deal with insecure housing , high rent and landlord who fail to maintain property . this amendment would ensure that landlord of student hmo be hold to the same standard as other landlord , provide great security and accountability . I also express my support for new clause 6 : all young people deserve somewhere safe to call home , and as much support as possible to help they find it . I welcome this Bill as an opportunity to reset the balance of power in the rental market . my constituent in Eastleigh and renter across the country deserve a rental market that work for they , not against they . I urge member to support the amendment to which I have speak , to ensure that the Bill deliver the fair deal that renter have be wait for . I note for the record my interest in this area , because I be a landlord . as the Member of Parliament for Northampton South , I come to the Chamber today to speak strongly in support of the Bill and many of the amendment . the private and social rent sector account for around a third of all household in my constituency — that be 35 , 000 people who will directly benefit from this legislation . my constituent work hard . Northampton South have a high economic activity rate than the UK average , yet despite work hard , many people still face incredibly high level of housing insecurity , high rent and low housing standard . housing remain the no . 1 issue in my inbox , and the Renters ' Rights Bill will help to address the insecurity and unfairness that my constituent have face when rent . this government be take the decisive action that people in Northampton have long ask for . I will speak to the amendment , but I have to start by address section 21 . end no - fault eviction will protect my constituent . right now , million of renter across the country live with that sword hang over their head — that they could be force to leave their home through no fault of their own . that mean parent lie awake at night , worry that they will have to move their child mid - term ; it mean nurse and teacher be force out of the community that they work in ; and it mean family be unable to put root down or plan for their future because they can be uproot at any moment . the number impact by this insecurity be shocking , and it be really positive that the Government have not only recognise this , but include further protection through their amendment to strengthen protection for renter . I be particularly pleased by the amendment that limit rent to be pay in advance . we have hear some shocking story today — my mouth drop when I hear some of the rent be ask for in advance in certain part of the UK . protect renter in this way be definitely the right thing to do . I welcome the provision that expand the decent home standard . I have hear from people in my constituency who live in property plague by damp , mould and electrical hazard . have spend nearly 20 year work in the construction industry and have work with some great private and social landlord , I can say that it be not that difficult for people to maintain and look after the property that they run . the fact that 21 % of private rent home in this country fail to meet basic standard be simply unacceptable . landlord who do not properly maintain safe property be irresponsible and deserve to be hold to account , and this legislation will make sure that that happen . I be particularly pleased that the Bill will recognise the impact on guarantor in the awful situation where a tenant who they support pass away . the new clause that have be table will mean that guarantor be protect , while also provide fair recourse and support for landlord in that awful situation . I encourage member to support those amendment . I be encourage by the provision relate to the landlord redress scheme , which provide a clear route for tenant to resolve issue without costly court proceeding . however , I have have extensive conversation with student in Northampton and the Northampton Landlords Association , and with a number of my constituent who be part of the HMO action group , and they tell I that , while they support the aim of the scheme — and they have be follow the stage of the Bill up to Report in detail — they have concern that the court system or the justice system just will not be up to scale . I be encourage by the Minister ' s statement that this be be look at , but it be critical for professional HMO landlord in my constituency , who will need quick resolution to dispute , and measure to deal with antisocial tenant and tenant who negatively impact on their co - habitee . I will finish by pick up some of the comment make in his opening statement by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , and some other speech . not everyone in this House be of the same mind and some have express concern that reform may restrict market supply , but I can tell hon . member that , in my experience , evidence from across the world show that similar regulation have not prevent growth in the private rent sector . to take Ireland , for example , it introduce protect tenancy way back in 2004 , but that sector have double and it continue to grow and thrive with those control in place . look at Germany , Australia , Sweden and across the developed world , we see that rebalancing between landlord and tenant have mean that private rented sector have flourish . the reality be that country with strong regulation on rental standard have see fast growth than those that do not have it . let I clear : this Bill be pro - market , not anti - landlord . it will help create a more stable rental sector in which good landlord can thrive and bad landlord be hold to account . this be good for tenant , it be good for responsible landlord and it be good for our economy . I rise to speak on new clause 10 in my name and Government new clause 15 , but before I do so , I would like to make some brief remark about other aspect of the Bill . in my constituency of Dulwich and West Norwood , housing be overwhelmingly the big challenge that my constituent face . housing cost have spiral , and the previous Government waste more than a decade fail to build the home we need . the effect of this have be that more and more of my constituent be live in privately rent home , in which they be currently systematically deny the basic stability and security that most of we would agree be essential to be able to function properly in the rest of life . private tenant live with the constant fear that their landlord can at any time , without reference to the term of their tenancy agreement , decide that they want their property back and serve an eviction notice . I have see this happen time and again . it stop people put down root in their community , because they know that they be likely not to be able to stay . it mean that parent live with the constant anxiety that they may have to move far away from their child ' s school . it mean that old people be deny security of tenure in their retirement . in return for extortionate rent , tenant all too often face appalling standard , and find it far too difficult to get basic health and safety issue address . I therefore welcome this Bill , which deliver the big package of reform to private renting for 40 year , redress the current imbalance between landlord and tenant , strengthen tenant ' right and provide much - need additional security . I particularly welcome the scrapping of section 21 eviction — I have be speak on they in this place since 2016 — the strengthening of local authority enforcement power and the creation of a new private rent sector ombudsman , and the application of Awaab ' s law to the private rent sector . there be a very great challenge about the affordability of private renting , particularly in London , and my constituent experience that every day . I hope the Minister will keep under review the measure in this Bill that be design to limit the rate of rent increase to ensure they be as effective as they need to be to create a function rental market . I trust that the Minister will do that , and will not hesitate to take further action in future if it be need . I now turn to my own new clause 10 and Government new clause 15 , which would ban the use of guarantor agreement in the event of the death of a tenant . in this place , all of we know that there be sometimes email that stop we in our track . so it be for I when , in 2023 , I receive an email from a constituent that read as follow : " late last year I become a guarantor for my son so that he could secure accommodation with some friend for his second year at university ; without I do so , he would have lose the house . I have no real concern about my son pay the rent as he have show he be a hard worker in a variety of job he engage with to supplement his student loan , which would have cover the rent anyway . the tenancy be due to start at the beginning of July . tragically , two week ago he take his own life , leave myself , my wife and his sister utterly devastate . on top of everything , I now find myself liable to pay the rent for his room for the entire length of his tenancy if a replacement tenant can not be find … I wonder if there might be scope to look into the practice of expect bereaved parent to continue in a role of guarantor to a love one after they have die . " I do not think anyone could read that email and think that what happen to my constituent who be face the bad kind of pain be remotely acceptable . I contact the let agent who refuse to budge , simply state that they be follow the contract that have be sign . I thank my hon . friend and neighbour for make such a powerful speech and read out what must have be a difficult email to receive on behalf of her constituent . do she agree that , sadly , many other tenant up and down the country might have have to go through that , and suffer in silence because they be grieve ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I will speak in a moment about evidence I have receive that this issue be more widespread than any of we might have imagine . I raise the issue at Prime Minister ' s question , and after that I be contact by many people , include family who have experience exactly that , as well as let agent who tell I that they explicitly do not use such clause , and that such clause be not necessary because the loss of rental income in the event of the death of a tenant be an insurable risk for landlord . I be grateful to member across the House who have support my campaign , include 48 member who sign new clause 10 , and those who sign my amendment to the Renters ( Reform ) Bill in the last Parliament . I engage extensively with two different housing Ministers in the previous Government , both of whom say that they be sympathetic but decline to take action in that Bill or support my amendment . I be therefore grateful to the Minister for Housing and Planning for his compassionate and rigorous engagement on this issue . he have listen and , more importantly , he have act where his predecessor do not . government new clause 15 , table this week , ban the use of guarantor agreement in the event of the death of a tenant who be a family member . that be what my constituent ask of I , and I be proud that that be what we will achieve today . I hope my constituent will take some small comfort from know that by speak out and contact their MP , other family face with the heartbreak of lose a love one will not be pursue by a greedy landlord or let agent , add financial stress and hardship to an already unbearable situation . new clause 15 do not go as far as new clause 10 , extend protection only to bereaved guarantor who be relate to the tenant . while that protection would have help my constituent , and while I agree that institutional guarantor should not automatically be release from their responsibility on the death of a tenant , the limitation of the new clause mean that there could still be hard case in future — for example , a close friend who be bereaved . I therefore trust that the Minister will keep the situation under review to ensure that new clause 15 be as effective as he intend . as a consequence of the Minister ' s engagement on this matter , I be content to withdraw new clause 10 and support Government new clause 15 . I urge all right hon . and hon . member to do the same , and to support this Bill , which will deliver the step change in regulation of the private rent sector that we have all be need for far too long . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , and I pay tribute to she for the work she have do in try to alleviate the pain cause when someone die and all the demand then descend unexpectedly on those who be rent guarantor . she have do a very good job on that and I welcome Government new clause 15 . my constituency , like other constituency in London and most of our big city , have a huge number of people live in the private rented sector , with probably more than one - third of the electorate live in private rent accommodation . collectively , they face insecurity . collectively , they be often stress . collectively , they be often pay high and excessive level of rent . it be heartbreaking to see the number of people who make their home in the area , become active in the community and make a huge contribution to our community life in lot of way , but then the rent go up and up , and they simply can no long afford to stay . anyone look for private rent accommodation within the local housing allowance in most inner London constituency would search for a long time and be unlikely to find anywhere remotely near that allowance . I see my friend the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) nodding , and the same situation exist in many other city across the country . People on average earning and working - class community be simply be drive out by the greed of the private rent sector and the market that go with it , with rent go up by 10 % , 15 % and sometimes 20 % . that be why I intervene on the Minister early , and I be grateful that he give way and acknowledge the real crisis happen day in , day out across the country . long - term private sector tenant be at threat , because their landlord know this Bill be come and that there will be great restriction — perhaps there should be more — on their raising of rent and do no - fault eviction , so they be presently try to evict large number of tenant . I meet many constituent who be go through incredible level of stress about that . I realise that the Bill be not yet law and have to go through the House of Lords , and I be not clear what date it will be finally enact ; I just hope it be soon . I urge the Minister to consider any kind of urgent action and advice he can give to protect exist tenant in the run - up to the introduction of this legislation . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) for the amendment she have table on rent level . while there be much in the Bill that I welcome , it be sadly a bit of a miss opportunity . although it restrict the ability of landlord to raise rent in the future , it do not protect those rent be at a reasonable level . her amendment , which be a good step forward , would link all rent increase to a combination of wage level and CPI and give local authority the power to enforce that . we surely should return to that . I hope that the Government will accept one or other of the many amendment that talk about the ability to review this legislation a year on and two year on to see its effect on rent level and , above all , on security of tenure and whether way have be find to get around it . new clause 9 , table by the hon . member for Bristol Central , concern the protection of tenant with disability to ensure that they be not discriminate against , and it be important . it have be widely support across the House , and I hope the Government will agree it , or at least introduce something similar on Report in the Lords if necessary . the hon . Member be represent an important and genuine need across the country . lastly , we have a housing crisis in Britain that be utterly beyond belief and utterly unnecessary . I talk to people every day where I live who be rough sleeper . they be walk around , spend the whole day try to sell the Big Issue to raise £ 10 or £ 20 to pay for a bed in a night shelter that they can only access in the evening and have to leave in the morning . it be not accommodation , it be literally just that : a night shelter . their life be search for £ 20 in order just to survive . I be not say that the local authority do not do all it can to help — it do . I be not say there be not lot of housing charity that do the same — there be . but we have a well know number of people live in destitution in our society , grotesque overcrowding in many council and housing association home , and insecurity in the private rent sector . the Bill go a long way in reduce insecurity in the private rented sector , but it must be a wake - up call for our society to invest far more in council housing and in sustainable , affordable social housing . I understand all the demand for build housing , but owner - occupation , right to buy and all that will not necessarily solve the housing crisis that so many face . it be up to we in Parliament and the Government to do a great deal more to try to alleviate the massive level of housing stress . the Bill go some way towards that , but we could go far on rent control and protection of tenant , and we could do much more on the empowerment of tenant . I conclude by say thank you to the often underfunde voluntary sector agency that do so much to give advice . they be essentially part of the housing community . I thank in particular Acorn , which have do so much to empower tenant in the private rent sector to realise that they be not alone in face irrational decision by landlord who should know well than to pursue no - fault eviction , which will thankfully be end by the Bill . I express my gratitude to the Minister and the Secretary of State for table amendment on regulate the student letting season , and on rent in advance . both be issue that I have be campaign on . over a year ago , I go to Leeds University Union ' s cost of living event , where those issue and other be bring home to I starkly . they be also bring home to I by the National Union of Students ' cost of live inquiry , and the all - party parliamentary group on student , which be lead by our former colleague Paul Blomfield , and on which I serve . I really thank the Government for table amendment 18 and 53 on regulate the student let season , build on the work of Paul Blomfield , who spearhead work on this in his constituency of Sheffield Central . I will not press my new clause 4 , and I urge member to support those Government amendment . if there be no regulation of the let season , student be pressure and intimidate by the rental market into sign tenancy with people they hardly know , sometimes nine month before they be due to move in . student of all background be fork out deposit to hold property . care leaver , estranged student and student from low economic background be leave to either spend money that they do not have or risk housing insecurity for the next academic year . the Government ' s decision to limit the let season to six month give student the space and time to create healthy social relationship and save money for a deposit for the next academic year , drastically improve their mental wellbeing . government new clause 13 and 14 be landmark measure that ensure that student be not subject to excessive and exploitative up - front cost by limit rent in advance . that create a fair , more accessible rental market . for example , my constituent Olivia be once require to pay £ 2 , 500 — six month ' rent up front — to move into a four - bed share property . she be move to Leeds to begin her master . leave she without saving for a move to a new city be not how we should treat any person vulnerable to the rental market or look to be an asset to the community . the Government new clause will help prevent such unreasonable demand and alleviate financial pressure on tenant , so I be withdraw my new clause 3 on limit rent , and urge support for the Government new clause . my constituent Olivia ' s up - front cost be so high because she could not get a guarantor . now that we have set limit on rent in advance , we must deal with the other side of the issue : the requirement for tenant to provide guarantor . the practice can exclude individual who can not meet those demand , or limit their access to secure housing . adult who earn their own income can be exclude from sign up to rent basic accommodation in a share house simply because they be not relate to someone who own UK property . my new clause 11 would place tight restriction on the requirement for tenant to provide a guarantor , especially when a tenant ' s rental history or income offer sufficient security . by refine those provision , we can balance the legitimate interest of landlord with the right and need of tenant . my new clause suggest that the need for a guarantor should be restrict when the follow circumstance apply : when a reasonable assessment show that personal income , include state benefit receive and any other lawful source of income , be sufficient for the tenant to pay the full rent due under the tenancy ; when arrangement be make for housing benefit or the housing element of universal credit to be pay directly to the landlord ; when the landlord have enter into a contract of insurance , through which they be insure against non - payment of rent — that have be cover by other amendment — and in such other circumstance as may be prescribe in regulation by the Secretary of State . that give the Government a wide avenue for implement my new clause . the expectation that tenant , despite enter into legally bind rental agreement , must secure a third - party guarantor undermine the very purpose of their rental contract . for many student , particularly those who can not rely on family support , such as care leaver and estranged individual , that requirement can make rent nearly impossible . the Bill provide a generational opportunity to raise standard of live in the UK to where they should be . as I will not push my new clause to a vote , I would welcome further discussion and engagement with the Minister as the Bill progress on how we can change the reliance on guarantor in our rental market . I know that he be open to that discussion . in my constituency , 44 . 8 % of constituent live in private rental , compare with a national average of 19 . 4 % . leed be home to a population of over 36 , 000 non - home student . the Bill be imperative to my constituent . through its measure , I be hopeful that we can establish a rental market that promote fairness , reduce inequality and strengthen community across the UK . I be very happy to support the Government amendment . I thank the Minister for introduce the Bill , and all hon . member on the Bill Committee who give their time to consider with gravity this long - overdue reform , which will provide great security and stability for million of renter across the country . the Bill be particularly important to my constituency , where more than 31 % of household be in the private rental sector . that figure be as high as 55 % in some ward such as Bournemouth Central , and up to 45 % in the ward of Winton , Westbourne and West Cliff . the private rental sector should provide people with flexibility and be a stepping stone to home ownership , and it should support our local economy , but for too many , as we have hear from many hon . member , it exacerbate instability and add financial stress , lock people out of build the saving that they need to get on the housing ladder , as well as add to mental health issue . that be particularly salient in my constituency , where the cost of housing be disproportionately expensive , give the wage that people can command . the average rent and property price be above the national average in Bournemouth , but average wage be 5 % low than the national average . the Bill be timely , because in recent month I have be deeply concerned about the grow number of resident who have be in touch to raise issue about housing , to the point that we be host three additional housing super - surgery , aim at provide constituent with the opportunity to share specific issue , and at give they advice and guidance from many local organisation that specialise in these issue . I want to raise a few issue relate to the amendment that many hon . member will find apply in their constituency . the first be poor - quality accommodation . in my constituency , one young woman and her daughter have be bounce from mouldy bedsit to mouldy bedsit while they wait for an appropriate social home . in the process , the woman ' s daughter have develop asthma . I welcome the reform relate to the decent home standard and Awaab ' s law . lot of people have be in touch who be be force into homelessness by eye - water rental increase or section 21 notice . the average increase last year for a one - bed flat in my constituency be 10 % . another young woman and her daughter be make homeless by a section 21 notice follow an unaffordable rent increase . she have be unable to find anything that meet her physical and mental health need — but in any case , she can not meet the up - front cost of much private rental sector accommodation in our constituency . I welcome the amendment to address up - front cost . her situation be compound by long social housing waiting list . I welcome the wide housing reform that the Government be bring forward , include the increase target for social housing and the wide house building programme . there be almost 20 , 000 student live in my constituency . I recently meet student union representative from Bournemouth University and the Arts University Bournemouth , who tell I about the struggle their student face , from the stress of find an appropriate place to live to the timetable for find accommodation and the struggle to rent . many student be force to couch surf because they can not afford the deposit money or do not have a guarantor who meet the requirement . Bournemouth be one of the top 10 most expensive place to be a student in the UK ; some 95 % of the maintenance loan be eat up by housing cost , leave many student with about £ 4 a week afterwards . that be not a sustainable situation . I therefore welcome the measure to protect student tenancy and address the up - front cost for student . it be my hope that in the long run , many student will benefit from these reform , will fall in love with Bournemouth and want to stay , and will be able to find appropriate and affordable place to live . as we have hear , good and responsible landlord have nothing to fear from these reform . I welcome the measure to give landlord more clarity and a well understanding of their legal obligation , and to address repossession right . the abolition of section 21 , Awaab ' s law and the up - front cost provision will allow my constituent and many across the country to breathe a sigh of relief . I therefore welcome the Bill and new clause 13 . for year , renter have face instability , insecurity and , in many case , exploitation . today , we be take a decisive step towards confront these injustice . it be a pleasure to serve on the Bill Committee ; I believe that we will look back on the Bill as one of the proud achievement of this Labour Government . I be proud to support the Government ' s new clause 13 , which limit the security deposit that a landlord can demand from tenant to just one month ' s rent . this change address one of the most significant barrier for renter in my constituency : the crippling up - front cost of high security deposit . previously , landlord be able to demand deposit of up to six month ' rent , a practice that have often price out renter and leave many unable to secure a home . by cap deposit at just one month ' s rent , we be make it far easy for tenant to move into their home without face a financial burden that have long be a barrier to entry to the rental market . new clause 13 be a vital step in make the rental market more accessible and affordable , particularly to those who have be exclude from the market due to high cost . this change will ensure that renter be treat fairly and can more easily get the stability that they need , without face financial hardship . the Bill be just one part of a package of measure that support renter and tackle the housing crisis in this country . those measure include get on with build those 1 . 5 million new home through planning reform ; an industrial strategy that give we the tool to build those home ; and the technical excellence college that will deliver skilled people . this Government recognise that the housing crisis be not a problem that can be solve in isolation . as one of the young member of this House , I be part of a generation that feel that we have be trap in renting . recent datum show that under - 30 be spend more than 30 % of their income on rent , which be more than any other group . the people who tell we to stop eat avocado and cancel Netflix be not serious about confront the gravity of the situation . they fail my generation ; it be this Government who be take action today . the previous Conservative Government have ample opportunity to enact meaningful reform , and I note that conservative continue to fail to stand up for renter . despite their promise to abolish section 21 no - fault eviction — a lead cause of homelessness — they fail to deliver . instead , under their watch , Parliament be clock off early while the problem in the country mount up . they retreat from their housing commitment , and prioritise the appeasement of powerful landlord interest over the welfare of million of renter . on Second Reading , the Leader of the opposition say that resolve the housing crisis hinge solely on increase housing supply and reduce immigration . need I remind she that her Government do the exact opposite ? in response to comment from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , let I note that the Government have already increase housing target and act decisively to address illegal migration . however , I reject the premise that renter right ' should be contingent on these factor alone . the protection and empowerment of renter be entirely independent of such matter . as we hear from Shelter and Generation Rent in the Bill Committee , we need to rebalance the power between landlord and tenant . in recent year the balance have favour landlord over tenant , but the Bill and the Government amendment introduce several key reform design to rebalance that relationship . for renter in my constituency , the Bill present transformative change : family will no long face the fear of sudden , arbitrary eviction and can truly make their rent property their home . the tragic death of Awaab Ishak , cause by mould exposure in his social housing , highlight an issue that we must address . extend Awaab ' s law to the private rent sector be a crucial step towards ensure safe and healthy living condition for all . key to this will be enforcement of the law , and I know that the Government be fully aware of that follow the Minister ' s commitment in Committee , which he have repeat today . one of the Bill ' s most significant but often overlook reform be the creation of a national landlord database , which will empower tenant to make informed choice and protect they from rogue landlord . remarkably , we often have more information about the available takeaway option than about those whom we trust with our home and our income . this measure raise market standard while also recognise the responsible landlord who maintain quality home . have introduce a similar system as community officer in the University of Nottingham student ' union , I be aware of the positive impact such transparency bring , and I be proud to see that vision realise here today . in contrast , I must express my concern about the Opposition ' s new clause 21 , which propose that the Secretary of State consult the insurance industry to ensure that specific insurance product be available to landlord who be let property to tenant who be on benefit or will be keep pet . on the surface that may appear to be a constructive solution , but in practice it risk perpetuate harmful stereotype and create further barrier for tenant . the implication that tenant on benefit or pet owner inherently represent a great risk be both unfair and unhelpful . it reinforce outdated prejudice at a time when we should be focus on inclusivity and reduce discrimination in the rental market , which be exactly what the Bill be about . as we hear from the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) , pet be part of our family , and I be glad to see the provision that support that . moreover , introduce specialised insurance product may have the unintended consequence of discourage landlord from let to those specific group . such product be unlikely to make rent more attractive ; instead , they may result in high premium or more complex term that landlord will interpret as a reason to avoid let property to a tenant altogether . we must not jeopardise the gain in the Bill by introduce measure that risk create an unequal and discriminatory rental system . the future of the rental market should be one in which responsible landlord and renter co - exist on an equal footing , support by policy that prioritise fairness and dignity . these reform be not mere administrative change ; they represent a profound shift toward justice and equity in our housing system . they acknowledge that while many landlord operate ethically , there exist a minority whose practice undermine the integrity of the rental market and the wellbeing of tenant . to they , we be send a clear message : " your time of exploit loophole and avoid accountability be over . " ultimately , what our constituent want be simple : they want the security of a roof over their head for they and their family , a job that pay the bill , and healthcare that work for they when they need it . this government be get on with deliver all those thing , and the Bill be a key part of that . it be a pivotal step towards a fair , more just housing system . it reflect labour ' s unwavere commitment to protect renter , support good landlord and rectify the systemic issue that have plague our rental market for far too long . I be proud to be support the Bill and the Government amendment tonight . a third of people in my constituency live in private rent accommodation . that be already pretty high , and well above the national average of 19 % , but in some ward , such as Southall Green , it rise to almost 50 % of people live in rent home . eale borough be what be know as super - diverse , with people from all over the world have make it their home . for many of my constituent in Southall , English be a second , third or even fourth language that they sometimes struggle with . that leave they wide open to abuse by rogue landlord , and under the previous Government there be nothing they could do about it . the Conservatives make promise after promise to renter but never deliver . in hock to vest interest , they renege on every pledge they make to renter , and some of the amendment table by the Opposition today continue to prioritise the need of bad landlord over those of renter . in 2023 , Generation Rent produce a report into renting by the british - indian community , use datum from renter in Southall . the report find that over a third have not receive any of the six important document they be entitle to from their landlord . a third state that their landlord have threaten they with an unaffordable rent increase . over half say that their rent have increase in the previous six month , with the average increase be £ 200 per month , and many be live in damp , overcrowded condition . the Renters ' Rights Bill will ensure that vulnerable tenant such as those in Ealing Southall be able to go to the housing ombudsman for help . they will also be able to challenge arbitrary eviction and unfair rent rise . I welcome the Government ' s amendment today , which strengthen the Bill even far , particularly new clause 13 , which will end the astronomical deposit often demand from tenant in advance . that be a very important change , particularly in Ealing Southall , because where people face low pay and massive rent cost , it will reduce a barrier to they get into good - quality , safe housing and ensure that we do not continue to see people sleep on the street . the previous Government sit back while renter in my constituency be condemn to mouldy flat , huge rent rise and the threat of no - fault eviction , but eale ' s Labour council take action . it introduce a new selective licensing scheme for private landlord , and these scheme be discuss in Committee . selective landlord licensing scheme require private landlord to have a licence to rent out property in designate area of high deprivation or poor housing condition . they have to meet certain condition to obtain the licence , such as provide safe and suitable accommodation , comply with fire safety regulation and manage their property in a responsible manner . in the absence of action from the previous Government , these scheme have allow council such as Ealing to enforce high standard for renter , as the licensing fee and any fine raise from irresponsible landlord be ringfence for enforce standard . in Ealing it have also increase awareness for vulnerable tenant of the minimum standard to be expect in rent accommodation . the previous Government be not big supporter of licensing landlord in this way . they prefer stand up for landlord , rather than stand up for renter . in fact , they change the law to give the Secretary of State a veto on selective licensing scheme that cover more than 20 % of a council area . it look like the Conservatives still be not big supporter of these scheme , as one of the amendment they table in Committee would have remove selective landlord license altogether . that would be a massive backwards move , and I be glad the Minister agree with I . in fact , before Christmas the Minister announce that he would be remove the Conservatives ' veto , and council will now be able to expand scheme such as the one in Ealing to the whole borough if they want to . I be delighted that the Government have take fast action on this without wait for the Bill to pass , and I look forward to more council with poor housing and high deprivation level be able to bring in successful licensing scheme such as the one in Ealing . I also welcome the Government amendment , which will give more power to local authority to enforce renter ' right and to pay for enforcement and investigation . the Conservatives have prove today that they do not care about renter , and most of the point that they have raise be about protect bad landlord — although so few of the party ' s member have turn up that I wonder whether they care about anything . by contrast , Labour believe that it be time we rebalance the power relationship between landlord and tenant so that constituent such as mine know their right and can enforce they , include the right to fair rent , to safe home and to secure tenancy . I welcome the real difference that this Bill and the Government amendment will make to the life of family in Ealing Southall . the reform outline in this Bill and the amendment be , of course , long overdue . when I stand for election last year , I promise that I would deliver on five mission for Mansfield , one of which be to fix our break housing market and ensure that people have affordable home to rent . sadly , that mission be necessary because many of my constituent face the constant risk of eviction . they live in fear of massive rent hike , or endure substandard and even dangerous condition in their home . I will discuss two key aspect of the amendment . first , I support Government new clause 13 , particularly in respect of rent and deposit in advance . I will read a few line from a recent casework email that I receive from one of my constituent : " I see a house list for rent and pay a deposit and rent in advance to secure the property . there be a few thing that need doing , which the agency say they would let the landlord know about and get fix . I receive the key and be shock that the damp and mould be still there , the radiator in one of the bedroom be leave on the floor and the bathtub be still out of place . the agent tell I that the gas engineer tell they that ' the pipe in the house be all botched ' . winter be around the corner and if the heater be to stop work , I ' d have to stay in the house freezing . I ' m a nurse and it would not be ideal for I to be off work sick . " my constituent far write : " I try every day to get an update and find out if the landlord have sort out the problem . every time I have to leave in disappointment . expect to move into the new house , I vacate my previous occupancy . I be so mentally , emotionally , physically and financially drain that I go to the agency and I give they the key back . I do not feel comfortable live in a house where the landlord be neglect tenant . if I be to move in and something be to go wrong , he would never come out or get it fix on time . " those be really powerful word from my constituent . follow that , my constituent be deny any kind of refund for a period of month . they be only able to secure a refund due to a last - minute intervention by my office , after I have suggest that I would name the let agent in my speech . the let agent be kind enough to get back to my constituent and have provide they with a full refund today . that outline the importance of Government new clause 13 and why I be pleased to support it , and it emphasise why the reform set out in the Bill and the amendment be need . I understand that the decent home standard outline in the Bill will force landlord in the private rent sector to make their home safe and secure , and to give tenant more avenue for financial redress when thing go wrong , as in the case of my constituent . my second point be that we have see rent increase at a dramatic rate year after year , and it be time that people in the private rent sector get a well deal . there be usually many application from prospective tenant when a new property come to market in my constituency , which often lead to bidding war drive up the price that be pay to rent the property , pit tenant against tenant . this leave only one winner . I be pleased that the Government have also set the target of building 1 . 5 million new home in England over five year , which will make a huge difference . I recognise and welcome those measure . finally , by abolish section 21 no - fault eviction and fix term , the Bill will remove the threat of arbitrary eviction from my constituent and increase tenant security . a constituent recently come to I follow a disagreement with her landlord about a propose increase in her rent and repair need to the property . I understand that halfway through the repair process , the landlord suspend the work and serve she with a section 21 notice . this be particularly difficult give the tenant ' s medical issue and her son ' s special educational need . no reason at all be give for serve the notice . this Bill and the amendment will outlaw such practice and give tenant in my constituency security in their home . for the reason I have outline , and indeed for the many more reason that have be outline by my colleague in the Chamber today , this Bill and the amendment will have a significant impact on the quality of life of the people in Mansfield who elect I to this place . by support this legislation , I be deliver on one of my mission to help fix the broken housing market for local people in my constituency . I would like to echo the comment of my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) , and the reference that she make to the housing problem in our area . today mark a once - in - a - generation moment , with the big change to private renting since the Conservatives ' Housing Act 1988 . the Thatcher reform aim to rejuvenate private renting by make it more attractive to landlord , but instead they help to sow the seed of the housing crisis we see today . England ' s 12 million private renter face some of the bad - quality housing in the developed world , with shocking level of damp and mould and low rate of insulation result in health problem and unaffordable energy bill . instead of produce competitive and affordable housing , decade of tip the scale towards landlord have result in home that be insecure , eye - wateringly expensive and often short term in nature . while renter in country such as Germany enjoy secure , long - last tenancy with right to redress when thing go wrong , tenant in England can be put out on the street by a no - fault eviction if they complain about a leaky roof or a broken boiler . I rise to speak in support of new clause 3 , which would limit rent in advance of tenancy ; new clause 7 , which would limit propose rent level ; and new clause 9 , which cover the right to have home adaptation make to a property . we know that this legislation will end the exploitative bidding war that drive up rental price , stamp out discrimination on renting to family with child or those on benefit , and give renter the right to request pet in their home . with section 21 finally consign to history , tenant will also benefit from long notice period , give they more security in their home , and we will hold landlord accountable for health hazard in their property . no long should tenant and their family suffer damage to their health because a landlord refuse to act . however , to truly deliver a more secure future for renter in England , the Bill need to close a loophole that would allow no - fault eviction to continue via rent hike . amendment 9 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) , would cap in - tenancy rent rise . it would introduce a cap on the amount a landlord can raise the rent of a sit tenant , so that no one have to face a rent hike high than wage growth or inflation . everyone deserve to have basic security in their home , whether they rent or own . People with mortgage tend to have relatively predictable cost . tenant have no such peace of mind . today , there be nothing to protect tenant from extortionate , unjust rent hike . the Renters ' Rights Bill do not do enough to change that . last year , a Government survey of landlord find that rent increase of 15 % or more when renew or extend a contract be common . despite the Bill ' s passage , renter who can not afford extortionate rent hike will continue to have no alternative but to move , fall into debt or face eviction . there be a real danger that landlord will continue to evict tenant or threaten they with eviction at will , with unfair rent increase take the place of section 21 eviction . the Bill ' s provision to allow renter the right to appeal to a tribunal that can determine a market rate increase be insufficient . by definition , market rate be already unaffordable for many renter . only cap rent increase will give renter genuine security in their home and stop landlord threaten vulnerable people with unaffordable rent hike or homelessness . beyond security , the big issue most renter face be the fast - grow cost of have a home to live in . the amount of income that family in this country be lose to rent be rapidly become unsustainable . nearly two third of work renter in England struggle to afford their rent , accord to recent research by Shelter . rent produce almost zero social benefit . it take money away from working - class people who could otherwise spend it in their community , and it pass that money to property owner . what simple , more effective way could there be to ease the cost of live crisis for million of people and put money back in their pocket than by limit their large outgoing ? rent stabilisation measure be common across Europe . in France , the annual increase be limit to 3 . 5 % . meanwhile , in England , rent have be rise fast than wage for well over a year , and the average annual increase report in December be 9 . 3 % . a cap on rent increase have the support of housing charity , renter ' organisation and major union . it also have strong public support . when it come to the housing crisis , we must keep all option on the table , and I hope the Government will back these change to the Bill . ultimately , we need to increase the supply of council housing at affordable rent . in my constituency of Poole , we have some of the high rent relative to wage in the country . Change , therefore , can not come soon enough for those renter , and this Bill be a welcome first step . I will address new clause 5 to 7 and amendment 9 , 5 and 6 , which deal with rent control . before I do so , I should say that I take a particular interest in new clause 9 , table by the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) , which I have sign . I chair an unpaid carer group , and there be a real concern that even where renter have an assessment do for aid and adaptation , they can not enforce it on their landlord , which leave they vulnerable . they then have no choice but to move , with all the disruption that involve , particularly if they be care for someone with significant disability . I do not think that this be a contentious issue , and I hope the Minister will assure the hon . member for Bristol Central that there can be further dialogue as the Bill go to the House of Lords . if we have that dialogue , I think we can find something that will satisfy all concerned , to give strength to those with disability and those care for they , while satisfy the Government about the ramification of an amendment of this nature . if we can get that form of word , I would urge the hon . member not to press her amendment to a vote . if it be vote down , it would send a message to the Lords that the Commons do not support it , whereas I think there be support in this House , but not necessarily for this form of word . sometimes it be good not to snatch defeat from the jaw of victory . I think we might have something here , but I will leave that to the hon . member ' s judgment . briefly , on rent control , my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) mention her constituency . mine be next door , and I represent a working - class , multicultural community , where we have be go through a housing crisis for at least the last decade . I have live there for 50 year and the crisis be on a scale that we have never see before , cause , as other have say , by the selling off of our council house . the irony here be that the same council house that have be put into the hand of private landlord be now be rent back at very high rent to house the homeless people the council be place in they . with the Government ' s policy of increase housing supply and the 1 . 5 million new home we be about to build , I hope that a large number of those home will be social or council housing . as a result , we can start to tackle the housing crisis in my constituency . in the meantime , however , we will be dependent on the private rent sector . the only reason I be speak be the representation I have have from constituent , know that the Bill be come up . I have also work with Acorn , the Renters ' Reform Coalition and various other agency . those constituent have say , " can you try to at least get across the plight we be face at the moment ? " that plight be dependent , to be honest , on landlord who be rip they off . the concept of price gouging be emerge in all our discussion about the economy ; well , here be an element of price gouging . with private rent landlord , particularly in London , we have see profit ratio of anything between 5 % and 20 % . the argument be make that we can have a tribunal system . People can go to the tribunal , which will determine thing on the basis of the market rent . in fact , the market rent be determine by what be almost an oligopoly of landlord in a particular area , who maintain high rent because they want to maximise profit . the housing condition in the private rent sector in my constituency be , in some instance , absolutely appalling . if a tenant complain , that be when the section 21 come in . indeed , tenant be terrify of complain because if they get evict , they probably face high rent elsewhere . that be why we need a comprehensive system of rent control . I do not see any other solution and I hope that , although the Government will not accept the amendment today , we can have a dialogue . that way , maybe between now and the Bill ' s passage through the Lords or in future legislation , we can address the issue of rent control . the argument be very simple : we just want a system where rent be link to wage or inflation . that way , people can not be rip off by high rent increase . that be not rocket science . I be old enough to remember when we have rent control , with a local rent officer who the local authority would send round . they would determine a fair rent and also what be fair in term of wage and income for any future rental level . rent control operate across Europe and it have not have an impact on the supply of private rent housing elsewhere . it be a system that could be readily introduce . I worry that if we do not do that now , we will be back here in a couple of year ' time with the same problem . although we want to build new home at speed , we will still be dependent on the private rent sector and on some , but not all , landlord — we have good landlord as well — who be basically profiteer at the expense of homeless people . turn to my final point , the issue of develop a tribunal system be raise by the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . the tribunal system need to ensure that people be properly represent and have time to take on the system . Most of we with a trade union background will have deal with employment tribunal over the year . they can be effective , but the only reason for that be that we have the might and organisation of the trade union movement . we do not have that in the rental sector to represent tenant . although I welcome the idea that we will have a thorough tribunal system that be effective in deal with hard case , it be not realistic to expect tenant in my constituency to utilise that without the resource to do so , particularly as we have lose a lot of our advice agency as a result of austerity . that be why we will need to come back and discuss again the solution of rent control , which my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) bring forward . good - quality , secure and decent rental should not be too much to ask , and I thank those landlord who do provide that in my city and beyond . I welcome the Government amendment to this detailed Bill , which will help resident in Portsmouth North to rent home that be both secure and decent . this new , fair system include an end to excessive , up - front cost , huge deposit and advance rent . it will also prevent student from feel pressured to sign up to an agreement very early in their term , and protect bereaved family by limit a guarantee liability in the event of the death of a family member or a tenant . the change , along with the expansion to the decent home standard , be necessary and part of a significant package of reform . behind each one of these issue be a human face and a heartbreaking story . the reform will reverse the environment of uncertainty and fear . in the past , tenant ' fear of raise issue have destabilise family and community and contribute to the broad housing crisis . this be no more starkly see that in a section 21 no - fault eviction , which be mention my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) . as a teacher , I , too , have see distraught kid who have be evict from their home as a result of a section 21 notice . I wish to share the story of two of my constituent — Sally and Rachel . Sally be a student nurse in receipt of universal credit with a child with special educational need and disability . she have privately rent her home for 14 year . the landlord have neglect the property significantly during this time , and the house have have extensive issue , with mould , leak and water damage . despite that , Sally want to stay . her landlord decide that it would be easy simply to evict she through a section 21 notice in order to carry out the extensive repair that need to be do to the house , leave she and her son homeless . the callous use of a section 21 notice to displace a family in order to more conveniently perform repair that should have already be do shock I . Rachel be a mum in Portsmouth North with four child , two of whom have SEND . she be give a section 21 notice by her private landlord before Christmas and ask to leave on 8 January — a no - fault eviction with no reason . the cruelty of the timing be shocking . have the previous Government enact their 2019 manifesto , Rachel would not be in this situation . she have since be inform by the council that she could be wait for five or six year for a property that meet her need , and she be now face live in costly temporary accommodation that will not meet her child ' s need . in addition , the housing team at the council have warn she that , as too few house have be build in the city over the past decade , she may be house in a different area — away from her child ' s school , away from her support network and away from her job . the Bill finally remove section 21 no - fault eviction , and today ' s amendment will strengthen the fairness of the market for a wide set of tenant . on behalf of all the Sallys and Rachels , I wish to acknowledge the work of this Government in their commitment to rebalance the relationship between landlord and tenant and to produce change that be pro - market , pro - tenant and pro - community . the abolition of section 21 notice and the fair change that we need can not come soon enough . it be too late for some people , but this Bill and its provision will ensure that people in Portsmouth and across the country have access to a good - quality and fair housing system . there can be few place in our country that need this Bill more than Bournemouth East . a total of 33 % of household in my constituency be in private rent accommodation , which be considerably more than the national average of 19 % . in Boscombe West , a ward , 60 % be private renting , and in East Cliff , where I live , it be 56 % . rent go up in Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole by 9 % in the year to October 2024 , which be high than the national average . some 81 % of respondent to Shelter ' s Dorset survey in BCP say that they be struggle to pay their rent . as somebody who use to lead a mental health charity , I know the link between health outcome , poor mental health and poor rented accommodation . for everybody live in poor rented accommodation in Bournemouth East , I know there will be a significant effect on health outcome . I want to talk briefly about the abolition of no - fault eviction and bring my constituent into the debate . my constituent Carolaine from Boscombe have live in overcrowded private rent housing with her two child with special educational need and disability for 11 year before be give a section 21 . be force to move at short notice have significantly negatively affect her mental health . the Labour Government ' s abolition of so - call no - fault eviction in the Bill will go a long way to give tenant like Carolaine great security . I also welcome a decent home standard now be apply to the private rent sector . my constituent Naomi , from Boscombe , recently contact I about the repeat incidence of mould in her one - bedroom rent flat , which she share with her partner and their 10 - week - old baby . the flat also have dangerous loose floorboard , a leak shower and fire door that do not close . her landlord continue to ignore her email . the provision in the Bill that apply the decent home standard to the private rent sector will give renter like Naomi safe , well - value home and remove the blight of poor - quality home from our community . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . may I raise the case of one of my constituent ? he be a dad with a young daughter , and he have a chronic illness . not only do he have many unfair deduction to his deposit at the end of his tenancy , but the landlord refuse to fix the shower because they claim it be some other sort of device — what a disgrace . do my hon . friend agree that we need to get through that Division Lobby , fight for our constituent and reform renter ' right once and for all ? I never disagree with my hon . friend , and his point show why we need the Bill . I welcome the Bill ' s protection against unreasonable rent rise and rental bidding . my disabled constituent Tracey , also from Boscombe , get in contact with I about how a substantial hike in her rent act as an effective eviction as she be unable to pay . despite look to use her personal independence payment towards her rent , she be force to look for alternative accommodation , and we all know how difficult that be in the private rent sector for people with disability . I welcome the protection in the Bill against unreasonable rent rise because they will provide much - need security for renter like Tracey who struggle to find appropriate accommodation in the rented sector to meet their need . I also welcome the introduction of a new ombudsman service , which will provide quick , fair , impartial and bind resolution for tenant ' complaint about their landlord , bring tenant - landlord complaint resolution on a par with establish redress practice for tenant in social housing or consumer of property agent service . I welcome the move to make it illegal for landlord to discriminate against tenant in receipt of housing benefit or other benefit or with child when choose to let their property . that particularly affect James in my constituency , who be homeless and can not secure private rent housing because he be in receipt of benefit . all of we who hold constituency surgery week in , week out will know these story . all of we have campaign for well renter ' right because we have hear those story on the doorstep , and I commend the Government for bring forward the Bill at such an early stage in this Parliament . we must of course make the point that not all landlord be bad , but the Bill be important because it weed out those bad landlord so that the good landlord — those who care about their tenant and who provide an important duty to the housing market — can continue to have a good reputation , and so the overall market continue to have that good reputation . I commend the Bill and the ministerial team for bring it forward . I be thrilled that renter in Bournemouth and across Britain will finally , after many year of delay , get the renter ’ right they deserve — no , that they be entitle to . let I begin by thank all hon . member for their contribution . it have be a thoughtful and good - natured debate , and while there be many genuine point of difference and emphasis , there be a consensus across the House that reform of the private rent sector be long overdue and must be take forward . in the time I have available to I , I will respond to a number of the amendment and key argument . in his contribution , the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , suggest that Government new clause 13 and 14 risk lock out of the rental market those renter who be on the financial margin and fetter landlord and tenant come to fair agreement on tenancy in the assured regime that we be introduce . I gently say to he that he seriously downplay the imbalance between landlord and tenant , and the fact that require multiple month of rent from a tenant in advance when agree a tenancy be unfair , place considerable strain on tenant and can exclude some people and family from rent altogether . Landlords will continue to be able to take a hold deposit of up to one week , a tenancy deposit of five or six week ' rent and up to one month ' s rent in advance before a tenancy have begin . they will also be free to undertake the necessary referencing and affordability check to give they confidence that a tenancy be sustainable for all party . if and when they be not satisfied by the outcome of pre - tenancy check , option be available to tenant and landlord to ensure that rent in advance need not be use — request a guarantor or engage in landlord insurance , for example . I hope that provide the shadow Minister with a degree of reassurance on that point . the shadow Minister table a number of amendment — several of which we debate in detail in Committee . with regard to amendment 57 , 58 and 60 , I restate the argument that I make in Committee : fix term mean that tenant be lock into tenancy agreement without the freedom to move should their personal circumstance change , and compel tenant to pay rent regardless of whether a property be fit to live in , reduce the incentive for unscrupulous landlord to complete repair . for that reason , the Government remain firmly of the view that there be no place whatsoever for fix term of any kind in the new tenancy regime that the Bill introduce . a number of hon . member refer to problem with short - term let . the Government be cognisant of the impact that excessive concentration of short - term let can have on the affordability and availability of local housing and the sustainability of local community . we be committed to monitor that issue and , as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , know , we be explore what further power local authority need to bear down on it . however , put an arbitrary deadline in law , as new clause 2 would do , be not the way to proceed . I be grateful to the Minister for his response on that issue . will he comment on the question of a use class order for second home ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I to engage in an entirely different debate . I be more than happy to update he , at the appropriate time , with all the measure that the Government will take forward in response to that issue . he can be assure , however , that we be give it serious attention , and this will not be a case of the Government kick something into the long grass . the Government be clear that we will not delay on give renter the long - term security , right and protection that they deserve by make the necessary and long - overdue transformation of the sector , contingent on a broad and undefined assessment of the possession process , as new clause 19 and amendment 56 propose . the shadow Minister know that I fully agree with he that court readiness be essential to the successful operation of the new system . that be why my official and I be work closely with the Minister for Courts and Legal Services and her team to ensure that the Courts and Tribunals Service be ready when the new tenancy system be bring into force . the shadow Minister also press the Government to place in the Bill a legal requirement to publish an annual review of its impact on the availability of home . he will know that the Government have publish a green - rate impact assessment . we will , of course , closely monitor the impact of the Bill on the housing market , but set an arbitrary deadline in law for do so would , we believe , detract from that work . although I do not begrudge he for table new clause 20 to make that point , he will know that no government could accept such an amendment . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington , and several member of his party raise the issue of military accommodation and table amendment 3 . there be no dispute about that amendment ' s objective — namely to ensure that all service accommodation equal or exceed the decent home standard . the Government have make that commitment . where we do disagree be on whether the approach that we be take in the Bill be appropriate for the unique circumstance surround Ministry of Defence accommodation . we do not believe that it be , for various reason that we discuss at length in Committee , include the problem that local authority have in inspect accommodation that be behind the wire on sensitive MOD basis . as the hon . Gentleman be aware , the Ministry of Defence be commit to review its decent home - plus standard for accommodation , with the aim of improve the standard of SFA across the estate , where it need improvement , as part of its long - term strategy for service accommodation . that review will be inform by my Department ' s work on housing standard , include our review of the content of the DHS , which Ministers in the Ministry of Defence be commit to align with . the Ministry of Defence will provide further information on the review of its target early in 2025 . the Minister be generous in give way . on the question of accommodation behind the wire , to clarify , amendment 3 deal with service family accommodation . service family accommodation be generally not behind the wire ; it be on the street , where council can access it . that be only one of the issue ; as the hon . Gentleman know , we debate many other in Committee . I appreciate that there be a principled disagreement on this point . we share his objective , but we think that there be a different and more sensible way to go about meet it . address service accommodation through this Bill be not the way to proceed . will the Minister give way ? I will , happily , and then I will make some progress . I be very grateful to the Minister ; I appreciate the time constraint that he face . the critical question be when those in our community who live in service accommodation can expect it to reach the standard that he and his colleague intend to set out . I appreciate the co - operation with Defence Ministers , but can the Minister give we a date by which that standard will be in place ? I be sympathetic to the hon . Gentleman ' s question and his desire for that information , but it be not for I to give a date from the Dispatch Box today ; my colleague in the Ministry of Defence will provide further information on the review of that target standard early this year . the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington , along with my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) and the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) , speak in support of their respective amendment to introduce form of rent control . I assure each of those member that I entirely understand their concern about the affordability of rent generally , and specifically the potential for retaliatory no - fault economic eviction . once section 21 eviction be do away with , unscrupulous landlord will no doubt attempt to evict tenant who assert their right by mean of extortionate rent rise . however , as we debate extensively in Committee , the Government sincerely believe that the introduction of rent control in the private rented sector could harm tenant as well as landlord by reduce supply and discourage investment . while I fully appreciate that there be a broad spectrum of regulation that fall under the title of rent control , there be , as we debate at length in Committee , sufficient international evidence from country such as Sweden and Germany , city such as San Francisco and Ontario , and the scottish experience since 2017 , to attest to the potential detrimental impact of rent control . for that reason , we believe that we should proceed on the basis of the protection that the Bill provide against unreasonable within - tenancy rent rise , as well as wide action to improve affordability , not least support for the growth of the build - to - rent sector . my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree also table new clause 5 , which would place a duty on the Secretary of State to conduct a review of the tenancy deposit protection scheme and requirement . the contract govern those scheme be due to end next year , and their re - procurement provide an opportunity for the Department to review their objective and how they operate . I be more than happy to engage with my hon . friend on that process ; on that basis , I ask she to not divide the House on her new clause . I be also more than happy to ensure that she be closely involve in the development of the PRS database . we believe that there be good reason for the detail relate to that database to be lay out in secondary legislation , rather than put in the Bill , as her amendment 7 stipulate . however , it be our clear expectation that the database will capture key information about landlord , and we recognise that there may be clear benefit in use it to collect a wide range of information , as her amendment suggest . my hon . Friend also table new clause 6 , which would require local authority , if request , to pay or guarantee the tenancy deposit of care leaver seek to access the private rent sector . I be of the view that local authority , rather than central Government , be well place to assess the good way of support care leaver in their area . I reassure my hon . friend that while local authority maintain their ability to support care leaver in their area , the Government be commit to put in place the support that local government need to do so effectively . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) make a strong case for new clause 11 on act to limit guarantor . I appreciate fully that obtain a guarantor can be difficult for some prospective tenant , and I understand the reasoning behind his amendment . however , I be also mindful that in some instance the use of guarantor can provide good landlord with the assurance necessary to let their property to tenant who may otherwise find it difficult to access private rent accommodation . for example , there be those with a poor credit history — the kind of tenant who the shadow Minister worry our rent - in - advance amendment will harm . have consider this issue in great detail , I ultimately conclude that limit guarantor could inadvertently make life more difficult for certain type of renter . that say , I will keep the matter under review , and I be more than happy to engage in a dialogue with my hon . friend about this in the week and month to come . several Opposition Members mention new clause 22 , in the name of the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) . the Government be clear that all landlord must keep their property in a fit state , and that there need to be robust route of redress when they do not . however , tenant can already take their landlord to court if their home be unfit for human habitation , and if the court find that landlord have not meet their obligation , they can award compensation , as well as require landlord to carry out repair . for that reason , while agree entirely with the objective , I believe that the hon . Lady ' s amendment be unnecessary . I will briefly refer to two amendment on the amendment paper that be not speak to by the Members who table they . my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) rightly call for protection from discrimination for renter who require home adaptation . the rental discrimination provision in the Bill be specifically design to protect victim of discrimination who may not be eligible to make a case under the Equality Act 2010 , such as those who have child or be in receipt of benefit . People with a disability be already afford protection from discrimination relate to the provision of housing or service under the Act . for that reason , we do not believe her new clause 24 be warrant , but I be more than happy to discuss the matter with she outside the Chamber . my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) table amendment 11 to make rent repayment order available for initial failure to be a member of the PRS landlord ombudsman or to register with the prs database . she will recognise that we have significantly strengthen the RRO provision in the previous Government ' s Renters ( Reform ) Bill . however , I take the view that it would be inappropriate to extend rent repayment order to non - criminal breach of the kind that her amendment cover . instead , local authority will be able to issue civil penalty for the initial failure in question , with the possibility of high financial penalty and rro if landlord fail to sign up , have be fine . finally , I will mention the amendment relate to home adaptation — both new clause 9 , in the name of the hon . member for Bristol Central , and new clause 23 , in the name of the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington . both amendment seek to require PRS landlord to permit home disability adaptation for assured tenant when these have be recommend in a local authority home assessment . the hon . member for Bristol Central table the same amendment in Committee , and as we discuss then , the Equality Act already provide that landlord can not unreasonably refuse a request for reasonable adjustment to a disabled person ' s home . as I say in Committee , measure already in this Bill will improve the situation for disabled renter who request home adaptation . the abolition of section 21 notice will remove the threat of retaliatory eviction , empower tenant to request the home adaptation they need and to complain if their request be unreasonably refuse . in addition , we be establish the new PRS ombudsman , which will have strong power to put thing right for tenant where their landlord have fail to resolve a legitimate complaint . I must say candidly to the hon . Lady that I remain somewhat unconvinced that these amendment be the way to address this absolutely legitimate issue — I recognise the problem she identify — and for that reason , the Government will not be able to accept they . however , I can give she the assurance that we will commit to continue to consider what more we may need to do to ensure that request for reasonable adjustment can not be unreasonably refuse , include those recommend by local authority home assessment . I be more happy to engage with member across the House , and to meet she , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington and other member who have concern on the subject , to discuss her amendment and the problem generally in more detail . I hope that , on that basis , she will consider not press her new clause to a vote . if the Minister can confirm that the cross - party meeting will include the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , and that it will take place before the Bill go to the Lords , I will be happy to withdraw my new clause . I will happily give the hon . member that assurance , and I be more than happy to ensure that my hon . friend the Chair of the Committee attend , as well as any other Member with an interest in this issue . it be important , and I understand the problem that the hon . Member outline . there be reason why we do not think the new clause be necessarily the good way to approach the issue , but I be more than happy to have a dialogue on that point . in conclusion , today we be make target amendment that aim to ensure that the Bill operate as intend . in many case , we think that the amendment push by hon . member be unnecessary , because we think that the Bill strike the right balance between the interest of landlord and those of tenant . on that basis , I hope the whole House can get behind the Bill this evening . question put and agree to . new clause 13 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 14 - prohibition of rent in advance before lease enter into ( 1 ) schedule 1 to the Tenant Fees Act 2019 ( permit payment ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) after paragraph 1 ( 1 ) ( rent be a permit payment ) insert — " ( 1A ) but a payment of rent be a prohibit payment if — ( a ) it be payable before the tenancy be enter into , and ( b ) the tenancy be an assured tenancy . ( 1b ) this paragraph be subject to paragraph 1a . " ( 3 ) for sub - paragraph ( 2 ) of paragraph 1 substitute — " increase rent 1a ( 1 ) if the amount of rent payable in respect of any relevant period ( " P1 " ) be more than the amount of rent payable in respect of any later relevant period ( " P2 " ) , the additional amount payable in respect of P1 be a prohibit payment . ( 2 ) that be subject to the follow provision of this paragraph . " ( 4 ) after section 5 of the Tenant Fees Act 2019 insert — " other provision about rent in advance 5a Pre - tenancy payment of rent : prohibition ( 1 ) a landlord must not — ( a ) invite or encourage a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to the landlord in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , ( b ) accept an offer from a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to the landlord in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , or ( c ) accept from a relevant person a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England . ( 2 ) a landlord must not — ( a ) invite or encourage a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to a third party in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , ( b ) accept an offer from a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to a third party in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , or ( c ) accept from a third party a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England . ( 3 ) a let agent must not — ( a ) invite or encourage a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to the let agent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , ( b ) accept an offer from a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to the let agent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , or ( c ) accept from a relevant person a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England . ( 4 ) a let agent must not — ( a ) invite or encourage a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to a third party in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , ( b ) accept an offer from a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to a third party in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , or ( c ) accept from a third party a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation make by statutory instrument , amend this section for the purpose of make provision about the description of rent due in advance to which any provision of subsection ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) apply . for this purpose " rent due in advance " mean rent due before the period for which it be payable . ( 6 ) Regulations under subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) may make different provision for different purpose ; ( b ) may make supplemental , incidental , consequential , transitional , transitory or saving provision ; ( c ) be to be make by statutory instrument . ( 7 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 5 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 8 ) in this section " prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent " mean a payment of rent that be prohibit by paragraph 1 ( 1A ) of Schedule 1 . 5b Effect of a breach of section 5a a term of an agreement between a let agent and a relevant person which breach section 5a be not bind on a relevant person . where a term of an agreement be not bind on a relevant person as a result of this section , the agreement continue , so far as practicable , to have effect in every other respect . " ( 5 ) the Tenant Fees Act 2019 be far amend as follow — ( a ) in section 6 ( enforcement by local weight and measure authority ) — ( i ) in subsection ( 1 ) , in paragraph ( b ) omit " and " and after that paragraph insert — " ( ba ) section 5A ( pre - tenancy payment of rent : prohibition ) , and " ; ( ii ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " or 2 " substitute " , 2 or 5a " ; ( b ) in section 7 ( enforcement by district council ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , for " and 2 " substitute " , 2 and 5a " ; ( c ) in section 8 ( financial penalty ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , for " or 2 " substitute " , 2 or 5a " ; ( d ) in section 10 ( recovery by enforcement authority of amount pay ) — ( i ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , for " or 2 " substitute " , 2 or 5a " ; ( ii ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) but that obligation to pay the amount , or remain part , of the prohibit payment be subject to subsection ( 3 ) , unless it be a case where the payment be prohibit by paragraph 1 ( 1A ) of Schedule 1 ( pre - tenancy payment of rent ) . " ; ( iii ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " but subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in relation to a prohibit payment " substitute " Subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in relation to the prohibit payment " ; ( e ) in section 15 ( recovery by relevant person of amount pay ) , in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , for " or 2 " substitute " , 2 or 5a " . " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amend the Tenant Fees Act 2019 so that rent in advance payable before the tenancy be enter into be a " prohibit payment " for the purpose of that Act . the new section 5a then also add new prohibition relate to that kind of prohibit payment . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Anna Turley Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Richard Holden Rebecca Smith the House divide : Ayes 372 , Noes 114 . question accordingly agree to . new clause 14 read a second time , and add to the Bill . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 9 October 2024 ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 14 - prohibition of rent in advance before lease enter into " ( 1 ) schedule 1 to the Tenant Fees Act 2019 ( permit payment ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) after paragraph 1 ( 1 ) ( rent be a permit payment ) insert — " ( 1A ) but a payment of rent be a prohibit payment if — ( a ) it be payable before the tenancy be enter into , and ( b ) the tenancy be an assured tenancy . ( 1b ) this paragraph be subject to paragraph 1a . " ( 3 ) for sub - paragraph ( 2 ) of paragraph 1 substitute — " increase rent 1a ( 1 ) if the amount of rent payable in respect of any relevant period ( " P1 " ) be more than the amount of rent payable in respect of any later relevant period ( " P2 " ) , the additional amount payable in respect of P1 be a prohibit payment . ( 2 ) that be subject to the follow provision of this paragraph . " ( 4 ) after section 5 of the Tenant Fees Act 2019 insert — " other provision about rent in advance 5a Pre - tenancy payment of rent : prohibition ( 1 ) a landlord must not — ( a ) invite or encourage a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to the landlord in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , ( b ) accept an offer from a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to the landlord in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , or ( c ) accept from a relevant person a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England . ( 2 ) a landlord must not — ( a ) invite or encourage a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to a third party in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , ( b ) accept an offer from a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to a third party in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , or ( c ) accept from a third party a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England . ( 3 ) a let agent must not — ( a ) invite or encourage a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to the let agent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , ( b ) accept an offer from a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to the let agent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , or ( c ) accept from a relevant person a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England . ( 4 ) a let agent must not — ( a ) invite or encourage a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to a third party in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , ( b ) accept an offer from a relevant person to make a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent to a third party in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England , or ( c ) accept from a third party a prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent in connection with an assured tenancy of housing in England . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation make by statutory instrument , amend this section for the purpose of make provision about the description of rent due in advance to which any provision of subsection ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) apply . for this purpose " rent due in advance " mean rent due before the period for which it be payable . ( 6 ) Regulations under subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) may make different provision for different purpose ; ( b ) may make supplemental , incidental , consequential , transitional , transitory or saving provision ; ( c ) be to be make by statutory instrument . ( 7 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 5 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 8 ) in this section " prohibit pre - tenancy payment of rent " mean a payment of rent that be prohibit by paragraph 1 ( 1A ) of Schedule 1 . 5b Effect of a breach of section 5a ( 1 ) a term of an agreement between a let agent and a relevant person which breach section 5a be not bind on a relevant person . ( 2 ) where a term of an agreement be not bind on a relevant person as a result of this section , the agreement continue , so far as practicable , to have effect in every other respect . " ( 5 ) the Tenant Fees Act 2019 be far amend as follow — ( a ) in section 6 ( enforcement by local weight and measure authority ) — ( i ) in subsection ( 1 ) , in paragraph ( b ) omit " and " and after that paragraph insert — ( ba ) section 5A ( pre - tenancy payment of rent : prohibition ) , and ; ( ii ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " or 2 " substitute " , 2 or 5a " ; ( b ) in section 7 ( enforcement by district council ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , for " and 2 " substitute " , 2 and 5a " ; ( c ) in section 8 ( financial penalty ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , for " or 2 " substitute " , 2 or 5a " ; ( d ) in section 10 ( recovery by enforcement authority of amount pay ) — ( i ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , for " or 2 " substitute " , 2 or 5a " ; ( ii ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ( 2A ) but that obligation to pay the amount , or remain part , of the prohibit payment be subject to subsection ( 3 ) , unless it be a case where the payment be prohibit by paragraph 1 ( 1A ) of Schedule 1 ( pre - tenancy payment of rent ) . " ; ( iii ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " but subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in relation to a prohibit payment " substitute " Subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in relation to the prohibit payment " ; ( e ) in section 15 ( recovery by relevant person of amount pay ) , in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , for " or 2 " substitute " , 2 or 5a " . " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amend the Tenant Fees Act 2019 so that rent in advance payable before the tenancy be enter into be a " prohibit payment " for the purpose of that Act . the new section 5a then also add new prohibition relate to that kind of prohibit payment . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 15 - Guarantor not liable for rent payable after tenant ' s death " in the 1988 Act , after section 16 M ( insert by section 17 of this Act ) insert — " guarantor 16n Guarantor not liable for rent payable after tenant ' s death ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) an individual ( the " guarantor " ) be a party to an arrangement ( the " guarantee " ) under which the individual guarantee payment by the tenant of rent under an assured tenancy ( " guarantee rent " ) , and ( b ) the guarantor become a party to the guarantee on or after the commencement date . ( 2 ) if — ( a ) only one person be the tenant under the assured tenancy , and ( b ) that person die , the guarantee be of no effect if , or to the extent that , it guarantee payment of guarantee rent for the period begin with the death of that person . ( 3 ) if — ( a ) two or more person be the tenant under the assured tenancy , and ( b ) all of those person die , the guarantee be of no effect if , or to the extent that , it guarantee payment of guarantee rent for the period begin with the death of those person ( if they all die on the same day ) or begin with the death of the last of those person to die ( if they do not all die on the same day ) . ( 4 ) if — ( a ) two or more person be the tenant under the assured tenancy , ( b ) the guarantor be a family member of only one of those person , and ( c ) that family member of the guarantor die , the guarantee be of no effect if , or to the extent that , it guarantee payment of guarantee rent for the period begin with the death of that family member . ( 5 ) if — ( a ) two or more person be the tenant under the assured tenancy , ( b ) the guarantor be a family member of more than one of those person , and ( c ) all of those family member of the guarantor die , the guarantee be of no effect if , or to the extent that , it guarantee payment of guarantee rent for the period begin with the death of those family member ( if they all die on the same day ) or begin with the death of the last of those family member to die ( if they do not all die on the same day ) . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this section , the guarantee rent for the period begin with the death of a person , or with the death of two or more person , be — ( a ) guarantee rent which — ( i ) be for the rent period during which the person die or person die ( the " relevant rent period " ) , and ( ii ) be attributable to the time after the death of the person or person , and ( b ) guarantee rent for every rent period after the relevant rent period . ( 7 ) for that purpose , the guarantee rent for the relevant rent period which be attributable to the time after the death of the person or person be the amount calculate in accordance with this formula — ( D / t ) × r where — d be the total number of day in the relevant rent period which fall on and after the day of the death of the person or person ; t be the total number of day in the relevant rent period ; r be the guarantee rent for the relevant rent period . 16P section 16n : application and interpretation ( 1 ) section 16n apply to a guarantee — ( a ) whether or not it be in writing ; ( b ) if it be in writing , whether or not it be in the lease ; ( c ) whether or not it also guarantee the payment of any sum other than the rent . ( 2 ) in section 16n and this section — " commencement date " have the meaning give by section 143 ( 3 ) of the Renters ’ Rights Act 2024 ; " family member " be to be read in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) ; " rent period " mean a period for which rent be payable . ( 3 ) for the purpose of section 16n , the guarantor be a family member of the follow person — ( a ) the spouse , civil partner or co - habitee of the guarantor ; ( b ) a person who be — ( i ) a child , ( ii ) a grandchild , ( iii ) a parent , ( iv ) a grandparent , ( v ) a sibling , ( vi ) a niece or nephew , ( vii ) an aunt or uncle , or ( viii ) a cousin , of the guarantor or of the spouse , civil partner or co - habitee of the guarantor ; ( c ) a person who be the spouse , civil partner or co - habitee of a person fall within paragraph ( b ) . ( 4 ) if , in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) , a person ( F ) — ( a ) be a family member of the guarantor when the guarantee be enter into , or ( b ) become a family member of the guarantor after the guarantee be enter into , F be to be regard as be a family member of the guarantor at all time afterwards ( regardless of whether F continue to be so in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) ) . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) one person ( c ) be the " co - habitee " of another person ( p ) if p live with C as if they be married or in a civil partnership ; ( b ) a " niece or nephew " of a person ( p ) be a child — ( i ) of a sibling of p , or ( ii ) of a person who be the spouse , civil partner or co - habitee of a sibling of p ; ( c ) an " aunt or uncle " of a person ( p ) be a sibling of a parent of p ; ( d ) a " cousin " of a person ( p ) be a child — ( i ) of an aunt or uncle of P , or ( ii ) of a person who be the spouse , civil partner or co - habitee of an aunt or uncle of p ; ( e ) " sibling " include a sibling of the half - blood and a step - sibling . " " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this limit a guarantor ' s liability for rent follow the death of the tenant . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 16 - Limitation on obligation to pay removal expense " ( 1 ) section 11 of the 1988 Act ( payment of removal expense ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in the heading , after " expense " insert " by social landlord " . ( 3 ) before subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( A1 ) this section apply to a dwelling - housing let on an assured tenancy if — ( a ) the landlord be a relevant social landlord , and ( b ) the dwelling - house be social housing . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " a dwelling - house let on an assured tenancy on Ground 6 or Ground 9 " substitute " the dwelling - house on Ground 6 , 6za or 9 " . ( 5 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) if the court make the order for possession on Ground 6 in circumstance where — ( a ) the additional RSL condition be meet , and ( b ) that condition be meet in case b ( alternative accommodation provide temporarily until other alternative accommodation become available ) , the landlord must also pay to the tenant a sum equal to the reasonable expense likely to be incur by the tenant in remove from the alternative accommodation provide temporarily . " ( 6 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " . ( 7 ) after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 4 ) in this section — " relevant social landlord " mean — ( a ) a private register provider of social housing , ( b ) a body register as a social landlord in the register maintain under section 1 of the Housing Act 1996 , ( c ) a body register as a social landlord in the register keep under section 20 ( 1 ) of the Housing ( Scotland ) Act 2010 , or ( d ) a housing trust , within the meaning of the Housing Associations Act 1985 , which be a charity ; " social housing " have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 . " " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this replace clause 21 . it expand section 11 of the Housing Act 1988 to cover possession on the new Ground 6za and limit the availability of removal expense to case where the landlord be a " relevant social landlord " and the dwelling - house be social housing . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 20 - Review of the impact of the Act on the housing market " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish an annual report outline the impact of the provision of this Act on the housing market in the UK . ( 2 ) a report under this section must include the impact of this Act on — ( a ) the availability of home in the private rental sector ; ( b ) rent charge under tenancy ; ( c ) house price ; and ( d ) request for social housing . ( 3 ) a report under this section must be lay before Parliament . " — ( David Simmonds . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Richard Holden Rebecca Smith Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 181 , Noes 363 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 - assured tenancy to be periodic with rent period not exceed a month Amendment propose : 57 , page 1 , line 13 , at end insert " unless the tenant meet the student test where the tenancy be enter into . ( 1A ) for the purpose of this section , a tenant who meet the student test when a tenancy be enter into have the same meaning as in Ground 4A . " — ( David Simmonds . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Richard Holden Rebecca Smith Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 118 , Noes 434 . question accordingly negative . clause 4 - change to ground for possession amendment make : 12 , page 5 , line 3 , after " 5h " insert " or Ground 6za " this be consequential on Amendment 22 . amendment 13 , page 5 , line 23 , leave out the word from " ( a ) , " to the end of the line and insert " for " , 2 , 5 " substitute " to 5H , 6za , 6a " this replace the amendment to section 7 ( 5A ) ( a ) of the Housing Act 1988 with a new amendment to take full account of the change to the ground under Schedule 2 to that Act make by Part 1 of the Bill . Amendment 14 , page 5 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 5b ) in relation to the making of an order for possession of a dwelling - house let on an assured periodic tenancy arise under Schedule 10 to the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 , Ground 6 be to apply as if — ( a ) in paragraph ( b ) , the word " , but only in a case where section 7 ( 5za ) apply in relation to the tenancy " be omit ; ( b ) in the general redevelopment condition , paragraph ( f ) be omit ; ( c ) in the landlord ' s acquisition condition , in paragraph ( a ) , the reference to the grant of the tenancy be a reference to the grant of the long residential tenancy which exist immediately before the assured periodic tenancy arise . " this insert a further amendment into section 7 of the Housing Act 1988 to take full account of the change to the ground under Schedule 2 to that Act make by Part 1 of the Bill . amendment 15 , page 5 , line 26 , leave out " ( 5b ) " and insert " ( 5c ) " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 14 . amendment 16 , page 5 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 5D ) in subsection ( 5B ) , a reference to a " long residential tenancy " be a reference to a tenancy to which schedule 10 to the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 apply . " " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 14 . amendment 17 , page 6 , line 15 , after " 6 " insert " , 6za " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this be consequential on Amendment 22 . clause 9 - Repayment of rent pay in advance Amendment make : 27 , page 13 , line 23 , leave out from " rent " to " as " in line 24 and insert — " for day after end of tenancy ( 1 ) a person who pay rent " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this provide that the right to repayment of rent pay for day after a tenancy end arise whenever the rent be pay . clause 12 - Duty of landlord and contractor to give statement of term etc Amendment make : 28 , page 17 , line 18 , after " 5h " insert " , 6za " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this be consequential on Amendment 22 . clause 13 - other duty Amendment make : 29 , page 18 , line 19 , after " 5h " insert " , 6za " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this be consequential on Amendment 22 . clause 21 - Limitation on obligation to pay removal expense Amendment make : 30 , page 32 , line 33 , leave out clause 21 . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this be replace by NC16 . clause 30 - tenancy of more than seven year Amendment make : 34 , page 39 , leave out line 18 to 20 and insert — " fixed term tenancy of more than 21 year 3d a fix term tenancy of a term certain of more than 21 year from the date of the grant of the tenancy . fix term tenancy of 7 to 21 year grant before the Renters ’ Rights Act 2024 3e ( 1 ) a tenancy of a term certain of — ( a ) 21 year or less , but ( b ) more than 7 year , from the date of the grant of the tenancy . ( 2 ) this paragraph apply only to tenancy enter into — ( a ) before the day on which the Renters ’ Rights Act 2024 be pass , ( b ) during the period of two month begin with that day , or ( c ) after the end of that period under a contract enter into before the end of that period . regulated home purchase plan 3F ( 1 ) a tenancy which , when it be grant , form part of a regulated home purchase plan . ( 2 ) in this paragraph " regulated home purchase plan " have the same meaning that it have from time to time in regulation 63f ( 3 ) ( a ) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Regulated Activities ) Order 2001 ( S . I . 2001 / 544 ) . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , amend this paragraph in consequence of an order make under section 22 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 . ( 4 ) regulation under this paragraph — ( a ) may make different provision for different purpose ; ( b ) be to be make by statutory instrument . ( 5 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this paragraph may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) the Bill currently provide that a fix term tenancy of more than 7 year be not an assured tenancy . this move the boundary from 7 year to 21 year . it also provide for other kind of lease not to be assure tenancy : exist lease of between 7 and 21 year ; and lease in a " regulated home purchase plan " . clause 63 - approval and designation of landlord redress scheme Amendments make : 35 , page 92 , line 8 , leave out " level " and insert " amount or amount " . this make the wording here consistent with Amendment 40 . amendment 36 , page 92 , line 12 , leave out sub - paragraph ( ii ) and insert — " ( ii ) about the amount or amount of those fee , " . this replace " level " with " amount or amount " ( for consistency with Amendment 40 ) and omit other provision which be replace by provision contain in Amendment 37 . amendment 37 , page 92 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) fee condition relate to — ( a ) fee payable in respect of compulsory aspect of the scheme may provide for the amount or amount of the fee to be calculate by reference to such of the scheme cost as may be specify in the regulation , which may include scheme cost relate to the voluntary aspect of the scheme ; ( b ) fee payable in respect of voluntary aspect of the scheme must provide for the amount or amount of the fee to be calculate so that ( take one year with another ) they be sufficient to meet such of the cost of the voluntary aspect of the scheme as may be specify in the regulation . " this deal with how the amount or amount of fee pay by member of a redress scheme be to be calculate . in particular , fee payable in respect of the compulsory aspect of the scheme could recover scheme cost which relate to the voluntary aspect of the scheme . amendment 38 , page 93 , line 16 , leave out paragraph ( e ) . this omit provision which be replace by provision contain in Amendment 37 . amendment 39 , page 93 , line 34 , at end insert — " " cost of the voluntary aspect " , in relation to a scheme , mean the scheme cost if , or to the extent that , they relate to the voluntary aspect of the scheme ( include scheme cost that be attribute to the voluntary aspect of the scheme ) ; " fee condition " mean a condition set out in regulation by virtue of subsection ( 3 ) ( h ) or ( i ) ( ii ) ; " scheme cost " , in relation to a scheme , mean the cost ( whether or not connect with a fee - payer ) that be incur in or associate with , or likely to be incur in or associate with — ( a ) the establishment and administration of the scheme ( include the investigation and determination of complaint under the scheme ) ; ( b ) the performance of any other function under this chapter ; ( c ) the performance of any other function under the scheme ; include such cost that be , or be likely to be incur by — ( a ) the administrator of a redress scheme , or ( b ) the individual responsible for oversee and monitor the investigation and determination of complaint under the scheme , in connection with enforcement by other person of requirement impose by or under this chapter . " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this set out definition of term use in Amendment 37 . clause 79 - fee for landlord and dwelling entry Amendments make : 40 , page 102 , leave out from line 23 to " be " in line 37 and insert — " ( 2 ) the regulation must — ( a ) specify the amount or amount of the fee , or ( b ) provide for the amount or amount of the fee to be determine by the database operator by reference to such of the relevant cost as may be specify in the regulation . ( 3 ) the amount or amount specify in the regulation under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) may be calculate by reference to the relevant cost . ( 3A ) the " relevant cost " be the cost ( whether or not connect with a fee - payer ) that be incur in or associate with , or likely to be incur in or associate with — ( a ) the establishment and operation of the database ; ( b ) the enforcement of requirement impose by or under this chapter ; ( c ) the performance of any other function under this chapter ; ( d ) the enforcement of any other requirement impose by or under this Act or otherwise in relation to the private rent sector . ( 3b ) the amount or amount specify in the regulation under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) or determine in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) may , in the case of a fee charge for an entry in the database to become active again after become inactive as a result of provision make by virtue of section 77 ( 2 ) ( a ) , " these change enable fee charge in relation to the private rent sector database to be set by reference to cost associate with or likely to be associate with the relevant cost ( as define ) as well as by reference to cost relate to the enforcement of any requirement under the Renters ’ Rights Act or otherwise relate to the private rental sector . amendment 41 , page 103 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) for the purpose of this section — Requirements " in relation to the private rent sector " mean requirement relate to — ( a ) residential premise in England that be let , or intend to be let , under a tenancy ; ( b ) the common part of such premise ; ( c ) the activity of a landlord under a tenancy of residential premise in England ; ( d ) the activity of a superior landlord in relation to such a tenancy ; ( e ) the activity of a person carry on English let agency work within the meaning of section 54 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 in relation to such premise ; ( f ) the activity of a person carry on english property management work within the meaning of section 55 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 in relation to such premise ; " residential premise " have the meaning give by section 1 of the Housing Act 2004 except that it do not include social housing within the meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 ; " tenancy " include a licence to occupy . " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this define what requirement in relation to the private rent sector and other term mean for the purpose of the amendment insert by Amendment 40 . clause 98 - decent home standard Amendment propose : 3 , page 117 , line 33 , after " ( homelessness ) , " insert — " or that be provide by the Ministry of Defence for use as service family accommodation , " . — ( Mr Amos . ) this amendment would extend the Decent Homes Standard to Ministry of Defence service family accommodation . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Susan Murray Z ö e Franklin Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 186 , Noes 360 . question accordingly negative . clause 100 - rent repayment order : liability of landlord and superior landlord Amendments make : 42 , page 120 , line 22 , after " landlord " insert " or superior landlord who commit the offence " . this amendment clarify that a rent repayment order can be make against a superior landlord who have commit an offence to which chapter 4 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 apply . amendment 43 , page 120 , line 24 , after " tenant " insert " ( whether the rent be pay to the landlord or superior landlord against whom the order be make , or to another person ) " . this amendment to the Housing and Planning Act 2016 ensure that it be possible to obtain a rent repayment order against a landlord or superior landlord who have commit an offence whether or not the rent be pay directly to they . amendment 44 , page 120 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in a case where the offence be commit by a superior landlord — ( a ) reference in the follow provision of this chapter to the landlord be to be read as reference to the superior landlord , and ( b ) housing in relation to which the person in question be a superior landlord be to be treat for the purpose of this chapter as let by that person . " this amendment move provision that be to go into section 52 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 into section 40 of that Act to ensure that reference to the " landlord " in chapter 4 of that Act be in appropriate case read as reference to the " superior landlord " . Amendment 45 , page 120 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in section 41 ( application for rent repayment order ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , for " person " substitute " landlord " . " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 44 and ensure that a rent repayment order be available against both landlord and superior landlord . amendment 46 , page 120 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( ai ) after " rent pay " ( in the first place ) insert " by , or on behalf of , the tenant " , " . this clarify that the amount to be pay to the tenant under the rent repayment order must relate to the rent pay by they or on their behalf in respect of the specify period . amendment 47 , page 120 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( ia ) in the heading to the second column to the table , after " by " insert " , or on behalf of , " , and " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 46 . amendment 48 , page 120 , line 36 , at end insert " and , ( ii ) in paragraph ( a ) , after " pay " insert " by , or on behalf of , the tenant " . " this clarify that the amount to be pay to the tenant under the rent repayment order must not exceed the rent pay by they or on their behalf in respect of the specified period ( less any award of universal credit make during that period ) . amendment 49 , page 120 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( c ) in subsection 4 , after paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( aa ) the amount of any rent receive by the tenant in respect of the period mention in the table in relation to the housing let to the tenant , " . " this require the tribunal , when make a rent repayment order in favour of a tenant , to take into account any rent receive by the tenant for the rent period which any amount pay to the tenant would be calculate by reference to , where that rent relate to the housing let to the tenant . Amendment 50 , page 121 , line 19 , leave out from " ( interpretation ) , " to the end of line 26 and insert — " in subsection ( 1 ) , in the appropriate place , insert — " " landlord " be to be read in accordance with section 40 ( 2A ) ; " . " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 44 . clause 102 - unlicensed hmo and house : offence Amendments make : 51 , page 123 , after line 11 insert — " ( 4c ) for the purpose of subsection ( 4b ) , a term in the tenancy agreement or licence to occupy relate to the occupation of the building or part of the building that be an HMO do not on its own constitute a defence under any of paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) of that subsection . " this provide that a landlord under a tenancy agreement or licence to occupy can not rely on a term under that agreement or licence about the occupation of the building , or part of the building , to on its own prove a defence to the offence of fail to obtain a licence for an HMO . amendment 52 , page 124 , after line 4 insert — " ( 3c ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3b ) , a term in the tenancy agreement or licence to occupy relate to the occupation of the house do not on its own constitute a defence under any of paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) of that subsection . " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this provide that a landlord under a tenancy agreement or licence to occupy can not rely on a term under that agreement or licence about the occupation of the house to on its own prove a defence to the offence of fail to obtain a licence under Part 3 of the Housing Act 2004 . schedule 1 - change to ground for possession amendment make : 18 , page 160 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( can ) the period — ( i ) begin with the day on which the tenancy be enter into , and ( ii ) end with the day on which the tenant be entitle to possession of the dwelling - house , be six month or less , " this ensure that Ground 4A be not available if the tenancy of the student accommodation be grant more than 6 month before it begin . amendment 19 , page 166 , line 28 , leave out from begin to end of line 13 on page 167 and insert " for ground 6 ( exclude the italic head ) substitute — these condition be meet — ( a ) the general redevelopment condition ( in every case ) ; ( b ) the landlord ' s acquisition condition , but only in a case where section 7 ( 5za ) apply in relation to the tenancy ; ( c ) the additional RSL condition , but only in a case where the landlord seek possession be — ( i ) a relevant social landlord , and ( ii ) the person who intend to carry out the work mention in this ground . the " general redevelopment condition " be meet if — ( a ) the landlord seek possession be mention in the first column in a row of the table in this ground ; ( b ) the tenancy be mention in the second column of that row ; ( c ) a person mention in the third column of that row intend to — ( i ) demolish or reconstruct the whole or a substantial part of the dwelling - house , or ( ii ) carry out substantial work on the dwelling - house or any part of it , or any building of which it form part ; ( d ) the intend work can not reasonably be carry out without the tenant give up possession of the dwelling - house because — ( i ) the tenant be not willing to agree to such a variation of the term of the tenancy as would give such access and other facility as would permit the intend work to be carry out , ( ii ) the nature of the intend work be such that no such variation be practicable , ( iii ) the tenant be not willing to accept an assured tenancy of such part only of the dwelling - house ( in this sub - paragraph refer to as " the reduced part " ) as would leave in the possession of the landlord so much of the dwelling - house as would be reasonable to enable the intend work to be carry out and , where appropriate , as would give such access and other facility over the reduced part as would permit the intend work to be carry out , or ( iv ) the nature of the intend work be such that such a tenancy be not practicable ; ( e ) either — ( i ) the assure tenancy begin at least 6 month before the relevant date , or ( ii ) notice of a compulsory acquisition be give in respect of the dwelling - house where — ( a ) the acquire authority be the person who become the landlord who be seek possession , and ( B ) the dwelling - house be transfer to that landlord within the period of 12 month end with the relevant date ; ( f ) the assure tenancy on which the dwelling - house be let do not come into be by virtue of any provision of Schedule 1 to the Rent Act 1977 , as amend by Part 1 of Schedule 4 to this Act or , as the case may be , section 4 of the Rent ( Agriculture ) Act 1976 , as amend by Part 2 of that schedule . the " landlord ' s acquisition condition " be meet if — ( a ) the landlord seek possession acquire their interest in the dwelling - house before the grant of the tenancy , or ( b ) that interest be in existence at the time of that grant and neither that landlord ( or , in the case of joint landlord , any of they ) nor any other person who , alone or jointly with other , have acquire that interest since that time acquire it for money or money ' s worth . the " additional RSL condition " be meet in case a , case b or case c . case a : a case where alternative accommodation that meet the follow condition be available for the tenant or will be available for the tenant when the order for possession take effect — ( a ) it be let as a separate dwelling with adequate security of tenure ; ( b ) it be affordable ; ( c ) it be in an appropriate location ; ( d ) it be not overcrowded . case b : a case where alternative accommodation that meet the follow condition be available for the tenant or will be available for the tenant when the order for possession take effect — ( a ) it be be provide temporarily until other alternative accommodation become available which will meet the condition in case A ; ( b ) it be affordable ; ( c ) it be in an appropriate location ; ( d ) it be not overcrowded . case c : a case where — ( a ) the tenancy of the dwelling - house be not grant pursuant to a nomination as mention in section 159 ( 2 ) ( c ) of the Housing Act 1996 , ( b ) when the tenancy be grant , the landlord intend to — ( i ) demolish or reconstruct the whole or a substantial part of the dwelling - house , or ( ii ) carry out substantial work on the dwelling - house or any part of it , or any building of which it form part , within a specific period , and ( c ) the relevant social landlord give the tenant , before the tenancy be enter into , a write statement of the landlord ' s wish to be able to recover possession on the basis of that intention to carry out that work within that period ( and that period must be include in the statement ) . for the purpose of the additional RSL condition , accommodation — ( a ) be let " with adequate security of tenure " if it be let — ( i ) on an assured tenancy , or ( ii ) on term which will , in the opinion of the court , afford to the tenant security of tenure reasonably equivalent to the security afford by an assured tenancy ; ( b ) be " affordable " if it be — ( i ) no more expensive than the dwelling - house of which possession be be seek , or ( ii ) reasonably suitable to the mean of the tenant ; ( c ) be " in an appropriate location " if it be — ( i ) reasonably close to the dwelling - house of which possession be be seek , or ( ii ) reasonably suitable to the need of the tenant and the tenant ' s family as regard proximity to place of work ; ( d ) be " overcrowded " if the result of the occupation of the accommodation by the tenant and the tenant ' s family would be that it would be an overcrowded dwelling for the purpose of Part 10 of the Housing Act 1985 . " this rewrite Ground 6 to incorporate the amendment already contain in paragraph 20 of Schedule 1 and other additional amendment . amendment 20 , page 167 , leave out line 17 to 23 . the provision make in the first row of this table be supersede by the expansion of the provision make in the second row ( see Amendment 21 ) . amendment 21 , page 167 , leave out line 24 to 30 in the second column and insert " any tenancy " " . this expand the provision make in the second column of the second row of this table so that it apply in relation to any tenancy . amendment 22 , page 168 , line 25 , at end insert — " new ground for possession of alternative accommodation provide during redevelopment 20A after Ground 6 insert — " ground 6za these condition be meet — ( a ) the landlord seek possession ( the " current landlord " ) be a relevant social landlord ; ( b ) the dwelling - house ( the " current home " ) be make available for occupation by the tenant , or a predecessor in title of the tenant , to enable redevelopment of another dwelling - house ( the " previous home " ) which — ( i ) be the only or principal home of the tenant or predecessor in title , and ( ii ) be occupy by the tenant or predecessor in title under a tenancy ( the " previous tenancy " ) of which the landlord be — ( a ) a relevant social landlord , or ( b ) a registered provider of social housing other than a private register provider of social housing ; ( c ) alternative accommodation that — ( i ) consist of the previous home and be affordable , or ( ii ) consist of other premise and be affordable , in an appropriate location and not overcrowded , be available for the tenant or will be available for the tenant when the order for possession take effect ; ( d ) that alternative accommodation be to be let as a separate dwelling with adequate security of tenure . for the purpose of this ground , accommodation — ( a ) be let " with adequate security of tenure " if it be let — ( i ) on an assured tenancy , or ( ii ) on term which will , in the opinion of the court , afford to the tenant security of tenure reasonably equivalent to the security afford by an assured tenancy ; ( b ) be " affordable " if it — ( i ) be no more expensive than the previous home , make these assumption — ( a ) that the redevelopment of the previous home have not take place , and ( B ) that the tenant , or predecessor in title , have continue to be the tenant of the previous home under the previous tenancy , or ( ii ) be reasonably suitable to the mean of the tenant ; ( c ) be " in an appropriate location " if it be — ( i ) reasonably close to the previous home , or ( ii ) reasonably suitable to the need of the tenant and the tenant ' s family as regard proximity to place of work ; ( d ) be " overcrowded " if the result of the occupation of the accommodation by the tenant and the tenant ' s family would be that it would be an overcrowded dwelling for the purpose of Part 10 of the Housing Act 1985 . in this ground — " redevelopment " , in relation to the dwelling - house that be the previous home , mean — ( a ) demolishing or reconstruct the whole or a substantial part of the dwelling - house , or ( b ) carry out substantial work on the dwelling - house or any part of it , or any building of which it form part ; " relevant social landlord " have the same meaning as in Ground 6 . " " this create a new ground for possession that be available where a tenant have be provide with alternative accommodation by a register social landlord while redevelopment affect the tenant ' s original home be carry out . amendment 23 , page 168 , line 27 , leave out " 6 " and insert " 6za ( insert by paragraph 20A ) " . amendment 24 , page 170 , line 10 , leave out from " paragraph " to end of line 11 and insert " for the word from " the tenancy " to " devolve " insert " the tenancy have devolve on a person ( the " new tenant " ) " ; ( aa ) after the first unnumbered paragraph insert — " but , if the new tenant be occupy the dwelling - house as the new tenant ' s only or principal home immediately before the death of the former tenant , an order for possession on this ground may not be make unless — ( a ) the tenancy have previously devolve on the former tenant under a will or intestacy ( whenever that devolution occur ) , or ( b ) the tenancy be a special tenancy immediately before the death of the former tenant . in this ground " special tenancy " mean — ( a ) a tenancy of social housing ( within the meaning give by Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 ) where the landlord be a private register provider of social housing ; ( b ) a tenancy enter into pursuant to a rent - to - buy agreement ( which have the same meaning as in Ground 1B ) where the landlord be a private register provider of social housing ; ( c ) a tenancy of support accommodation , within the meaning give by paragraph 12 of Schedule 2 ; ( d ) a tenancy where the former tenant ' s occupation of the dwelling - house be in pursuance of a local housing authority ' s duty to the tenant under section 193 of the Housing Act 1996 ( and here " local housing authority " have the same meaning as in Ground 5 g ) ; ( e ) a tenancy which meet the condition in paragraph ( a ) , ( b ) , ( d ) and ( e ) in the first paragraph of ground 5h . " " this remove the possibility of use Ground 7 where the person who inherit be reside in the dwelling - house , except where the deceased person have themselves inherit the dwelling or where the tenancy be a " special tenancy " . Amendment 25 , page 172 , line 31 , leave out " Grounds 2ZA , 2zc , 5c , 5H and 6a " and insert " certain Grounds " . this be consequential on Amendment 26 . amendment 26 , page 173 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( ea ) amend the definition of " special tenancy " in Ground 7 ; " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this enable the definition of " special tenancy " in Ground 7 to be amend by regulation subject to the affirmative procedure . schedule 2 - amendment relate to chapter 1 of Part 1 Amendments make : 31 , page 179 , leave out line 42 and 43 and insert — " 27 the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 be amend as follow . 28 in Schedule 10 ( security of tenure on end of long residential tenancy ) — ( a ) in paragraph 5 ( 1 ) ( a ) , omit " , other than Ground 16 " ; ( b ) for paragraph 5 ( 2 ) substitute — " ( 2 ) ground 6 in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act may not be specify in a landlord ' s notice to resume possession if the tenancy be a former 1954 Act tenancy . ( 2A ) where that Ground apply to any other long residential tenancy in accordance with sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , it be to apply as if — ( a ) in paragraph ( b ) of that Ground , the word " , but only in a case where section 7 ( 5za ) apply in relation to the tenancy , " be omit ; ( b ) in the general redevelopment condition , paragraph ( f ) be omit . " ; ( c ) in paragraph 6 ( 3 ) ( c ) — ( i ) omit " ( other than an assure shorthold tenancy ) " ; ( ii ) for " 5 " substitute " 5H " ; ( d ) in paragraph 11 ( 3 ) — ( i ) in the opening word , omit " ( not be an assured shorthold tenancy ) " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( c ) , for " 5 " substitute " 5H " ; ( e ) in paragraph 11 ( 5 ) — ( i ) in the opening word , omit " ( not be an assured shorthold tenancy ) " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( c ) , for " 5 " substitute " 5H " ; ( f ) in paragraph 12 ( 1 ) , omit " or Chapter II " ; ( g ) in paragraph 13 ( 4 ) , for " 15 " substitute " 18 " . 29 in Schedule 11 ( minor and consequential amendment ) , omit paragraph 103 and 108 . " this replace the amendment make to the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 and make new amendment to the provision in that Act relate to security of tenure on the ending of long residential lease to take account of the change make by Part 1 of the Bill . Amendment 32 , page 182 , line 12 , after " ( aa ) " insert " where the edmo be to be make by a local housing authority in England , " . this restrict the new requirement on local housing authority when make an empty dwell management order to notify the proprietor of their right and power under the order , include the right to grant a lease , to local housing authority in England . Amendment 33 , page 182 , line 24 , leave out from begin to " ( possession " and insert — " 61a the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 be amend as follow . 61B in section 180 ( right to acquire ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) , omit " , other than a long tenancy " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 2A ) , omit " shorthold " . 62 in Schedule 11 " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this make consequential amendment of section 180 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 . schedule 6 - application of chapter 1 of Part 1 to exist tenancy : transitional provision Amendments make : 53 , page 219 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( aa ) paragraph ( ca ) be omit ; " this be consequential on Amendment 18 . amendment 54 , page 220 , line 7 , leave out " ( ab ) " and insert " ( c ) in case C where the " additional RSL condition " be meet " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this be consequential on Amendment 19 . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it have be a real privilege to take this vital piece of legislation through the House . I want to thank everyone who have play a role in get the Bill to this stage : my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister for her passionate commitment to improve the life of England ' s 11 million private renter ; the Department ' s Bill team who have work tirelessly on the legislation for the past six month ; my outstanding private office , include my fantastic private secretary Will Gaby , who have lead the team on the Bill ; the Clerks , Chairs and parliamentary counsel for facilitate its progress ; the witness who give evidence to the Committee ; and hon . member from across the House who provide valuable input today and at previous stage . the current system for private renting be break . while the Government recognise that the majority of landlord provide high - quality home and a good service to their tenant , it remain the case that the private rent sector still provide the least affordable , poor quality and most insecure housing of all tenure . this intolerable state of affair be why renter have be demand change for many year , and I be extremely proud that this Government have act so early in the Parliament to deliver it . the Renters ' Rights Bill will deliver on our manifesto commitment to overhaul the regulation of the private rent sector and to decisively raise standard within it . it be bitterly disappointing that despite not force a single Division in Committee , the opposition decide today to set their face firmly against private rent sector reform on the basis of a series of specious and , indeed , spurious argument . they may be intent on let down England ' s private renter once again , but this Labour Government will not put ten of thousand of they at risk of homelessness , nor will we prolong the uncertainty that responsible landlord across the country have experience over recent year by hesitate . we will finish the job and give England ' s 11 million private renter the great security , right and protection they deserve . I wish Baroness Taylor the good with move the Bill forward in the other place , and I commend it to the House . I call Kevin Hollinrake , who have 35 second . I draw the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be not wrong , spurious or specious to stand up for 11 million tenant . we know that tenant and landlord be two side of the same coin . as the Leader of the opposition say , we agree that tenant need a well deal , but this Bill will not give that to they . the Minister be follow in the footstep of Scotland . the Bill will reduce supply and push up rent , and that be why we be against it — debate interrupt ( Programme Order , 9 October ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the Bill be now read the third time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Anna Turley Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Richard Holden Rebecca Smith the House divide : Ayes 440 , Noes 111 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Official Controls ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 19 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question put . the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Combined Authorities ( Borrowing ) and East Midlands Combined County Authority ( Borrowing and Functions ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 19 November 2024 , be approve . National Security that the draft National Security Act 2023 ( Consequential Amendment of Primary Legislation ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 29 October 2024 , be approve . Police that the draft Police Act 1997 ( authorisation to interfere with property : Relevant Offence ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 29 October 2024 , be approve . company that the draft Registrar ( Identity Verification and Authorised Corporate Service Providers ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 May 2024 , in the last Parliament , be approve that the draft Unique Identifiers ( Application of Company Law ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 October 2024 , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy that the draft Clean Heat Market Mechanism Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . scrutiny of european statutory Instruments Motion make , that the follow Standing Order shall be make : 1 . for the purpose of paragraph 17 of Schedule 7 to the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 and paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 the committee charge with consider draft instrument and related document shall be the committee appoint under Standing Order No . 152 to examine the expenditure , administration and policy of the Department lay the draft instrument or , in respect of an instrument or document lay by a Minister in the Cabinet Office , the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . 2 . a committee consider such a draft instrument or related document shall have the assistance of the Counsel to the Speaker . 3 . in its consideration of an instrument refer to in paragraph ( 1 ) the committee shall consider , in addition to such other matter as it deem appropriate , whether the draft instrument — ( a ) contain any provision of the type specify in paragraph 1 ( 2 ) of Schedule 7 to the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 in relation to which the Act require that a draft of the instrument must be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , each House of Parliament ( the affirmative procedure ) ; ( b ) contain any provision of the type specify in paragraph 5 ( 2 ) of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 in relation to which the Act require that a draft of the instrument must be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , each House of Parliament ( the affirmative procedure ) ; ( c ) otherwise appear to make an inappropriate use of the negative procedure ; and shall report to the House if it be of the opinion that the negative procedure should not apply . 4 . this Standing Order shall lapse — ( a ) in so far as it relate to document lay in accordance with paragraph 17 ( 3 ) ( b ) of Schedule 7 to the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 ( and matter arise from the consideration of such document ) , at the end of the period after which no more regulation may be make under section 23 ( 1 ) of that Act ; ( b ) in so far as it relate to document lay in accordance with paragraph 6 ( 3 ) ( b ) of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 ( and matter arise from the consideration of such document ) , at the end of the period after which no more regulation may be make under Sections 11 , 12 , or 14 of that Act . — ( Kate Dearden . ) object . education provision : South Buckinghamshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I be grateful to have secure this debate on this important topic for my constituent , and to the Minister for her attendance . I be also delighted to see the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) in his place . as constituency neighbour , albeit from different party , we have come together to work closely on this issue for the good of our constituent . I want to talk about the lack of secondary school educational provision available to my constituent in south Buckinghamshire , particularly in the beautiful village of Burnham and the surround area . Burnham be a grow and thriving village that be part of both Buckinghamshire and Slough . it be a unique place , which be why the debate will focus on this topic . Burnham be a place where family like to settle for its beauty , community and wonderful transport link . it be also place where child must travel long distance , at huge cost to their family , to attend a comprehensive secondary school . Burnham be the only community in Buckinghamshire that lack a nearby secondary school alongside its grammar school . that situation be become increasingly intolerable , and I hope the Minister will join I and the hon . member for Slough in our joint effort to bring about change . let I start with a short history of the lack of school provision . in 2019 , before I become the Member of Parliament for Beaconsfield , the Department for Education close the Burnham E - Act Academy , a co - educational non - selective school for 11 to 18 - year - old . that follow several change and challenge Ofsted report . at one time , the school have serve more than 600 pupil . as the school be fail , parent be force to find alternative for the sake of their child , and roll number begin to fall , make the school potentially unviable . instead of serious effort be make to turn the school around , it be allow to fail . that closure be a serious mistake . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this debate and thank she for her kind word . it be a pleasure to join she recently at Burnham grammar school to meet activist campaign for a new school . as she have explain , it be a mistake for the Government and Buckinghamshire council in 2019 to close the non - selective , co - educational secondary school . obviously the number must stack up , but do she agree that it be vital to recognise the importance of child receive good - quality , local school education ? be it not unfair for my Slough constituent and her to have to travel great distance at great expense , just to get that education ? due consideration should be give to that when determine whether a new school be require in Burnham . the way that the hon . Member and I have be work cross - party be an example of how to move forward past council boundary . I just point out to the Minister that Burnham be a large town that historically be its own entity , but uniquely be now part of two local authority . the number be often look at through the lens of one local authority or the other , but we need to combine those two , work together and submit a joint local authority bid to the Department for Education . that be the way to demonstrate the number and get the secondary school provision we need . I commend the hon . Lady on bring forward this debate . do she not agree that by put secondary school out of reach of local population , we close the door to character - building , to skill - learning and to socially imperative after - school programme ? that must all be weigh when consider educational provision , because if you close a school , you lose a generation of young people . I thank the hon . member for always make such excellent contribution to every Adjournment debate . he be a true champion for Back Benchers . the people who lose out in the school closure be the young people of Burnham and the surround area . move forward , we want to see that problem rectify . since 2019 , the young people of Burnham who be not in selective education find themselves catch in excessively long journey to school in Maidenhead and other part of Buckinghamshire and Slough , as my friend the hon . member for Slough so eloquently point out . it be unfair for our resident , and it be have a significant effect on their mental health , physical wellbeing and finance . the situation be absurd and almost intolerable . we have a site that house a secondary school up until 2019 , and it be now host the occasional Netflix filming . meanwhile , young people waste hour travel to school . the situation need to change . I be equally robust in challenge our previous Schools Minister , and I spend much time speak to Nick Gibb in the Tea Room . I be sure that the hon . member for Slough can follow in my footstep and find the current Minister in the Tea Room to continue to press the point , formally and informally . will she consider meet I and he jointly after the debate , so that we can take this issue forward ? I pay tribute to the campaign group for Burnham secondary school . since my election in December 2019 , I have be pleased to work alongside the group and local family to try to right this wrong . they be at the epicentre of what make community campaign group so inspiring . they be totally dedicated to make their community well . I thank the local councillor , parish councillor and the hon . member for work together to put the need of our resident first . let I set out why the case for a secondary school in Burnham be clear , compelling and urgent . we know that education be the single silver bullet that can determine the life chance of young people , but we be place an enormous barrier in the way of the young people of Burnham and south Buckinghamshire . long journey be impact their mental and physical health and place they at high risk of educational disengagement . we also know that south Buckinghamshire be significantly underserve in special educational need and disability provision . just before the election , I be delighted by the Department for Education ' s announcement of a new SEND school for Buckinghamshire . I hope that the Minister will recommit to that school tonight and support my call for it to be place in south Buckinghamshire — it would be for the whole county , but I would love to see it in south Buckinghamshire . a reopened Burnham secondary school would represent a perfect opportunity to provide not only 11 to 16 - year - old with non - selective education , but increase SEND provision and a thriving sixth form . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech about educational need in her constituency . do she know of the work do by the London borough of Hillingdon in the village of Harefield in my constituency , where , as part of a multi - academy trust , an under - utilise secondary school have slightly reduce in size and the site be now dual - use , with both secondary mainstream comprehensive education and a brand - new SEND school at the same location ? I thank my hon . friend for that excellent intervention . that example be the gold standard of what we would like to do to ensure that there be SEND provision and comprehensive school provision in our area as we move forward . find dual use for those facility really be the way forward . with volunteer , we be try to look at every option , work across party and across local authority to ensure that we find a solution that work for all of our resident , hopefully follow in the footstep of Hillingdon . one of the frustration that I and the campaign group have face be the loop of accountability avoidance . we be on the border of many local authority and we border London . the provision for our student be different from London , but because we be just outside London , that endless accountability loop be often difficult to close . the Department say that it be for local authority to make the case , but oftentime it seem that they be not work together for the collective demand because of their individual legal accountability . that be despite the practical reality that Slough and Burnham — and all of Buckinghamshire — border each other , and the two local primary school be in close proximity to the site . at Burnham grammar school , this be prove by the fact that half the pupil be from Slough . our campaign group receive a reply from a freedom of information request , which say : " any project to try to evidence demand to reopen a new school on the Burnham site should not include pupil attend in Slough ( regardless of how close the school may be to Buckinghamshire ) . " that be bureaucracy triumph over common sense . the campaign group and I have take it upon ourselves to look at the datum and make the case , because it seem that no one else will . I thank the hon . member for Slough for join we in that and try to work together proactively to bring forth evidence from both local authority of the demand and need of pupil for the secondary school . even before I turn to housing expansion , they can make the case for a minimum of five form of entry from the local primary school . we also know that beech learning and development trust , which deliver Burnham grammar school , could take on a Burnham secondary school within its umbrella trust . we have a site for a school , we have demand across both local authority boundary and we have a trust able to take on the school ; all we lack be the will of the educational establishment . in south Buckinghamshire we now have significant housing target on our way . as a separate point , if something be to be build on the green belt , be in no doubt that I will oppose it tooth and nail , but I support the case for more housing in the right location and with the right infrastructure . Burnham and the surround area be grow , as be Slough . many people want to move to both area because of their excellent transport link and the ability to come into London . our area ' s population be grow , and the housing demand mean that the population will continue to increase . Buckinghamshire have one of the high housing demand put on it — more so than any other local authority — so , to make the case , we will need more provision of place for student , because central Government demand mean that we will be build more house in the county . that simply strengthen our argument for increase educational provision — we will not have the infrastructure in place to support the new housing that central Government will ask we to build . we also have the Elizabeth line , which be attract commuter family to the area . we face more housing coming , but without the infrastructure of a new school to support the area . it be time to make sure that the secondary school be there and ready to support demand from our resident . it be time for the education system to come together to solve this problem . in the same way that the hon . member for Slough and I have put aside party political difference in order to work together for the good of our community , so the education system need to put aside artificial boundary and work together . it need leadership from Ministers and the Department for Education to bring local authority together to support the proper analysis of datum across local authority boundary . I urge the Minister to join I , the hon . member for Slough and the local community to help make a new secondary school for Burnham , south Buckinghamshire and Slough a reality . I congratulate the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) on secure this important debate . she have be a champion for child in south Buckinghamshire and for every child to secure a school place that allow they to achieve and thrive . this Government recognise how important it be that every child get a great education at a good school in their area . we work closely with our local authority colleague to achieve that , include in Buckinghamshire . local authority , include in Buckinghamshire , have a statutory duty to ensure that there be sufficient school place for child in their area , as the hon . Lady reference . to support local authority to deliver on that statutory duty , the Department provide capital funding through the basic need grant for mainstream school place . funding be base on local authority ' own pupil forecast and school capacity datum . they also receive the high need provision capital allocation to invest in place for child and young people with special educational need or who require alternative provision — the hon . Lady mention that specifically and I will come to it shortly . the Department engage with local authority on a regular basis to review their plan for create additional primary and pre - 16 secondary school place , and to consider alternative where necessary . when local authority experience difficulty , the Department offer support and advice , include through the pupil place planning adviser . I hope the hon . Lady find it reassure that all that support be in place . at local authority level , Buckinghamshire be forecast to have an increase surplus of primary place , especially in the year of entry — reception — and in key stage 1 . there be , however , some area of primary place pressure , include at Gerrards Cross and the Chalfonts in the south of the county . at secondary phase , Buckinghamshire be forecast to have a small , slightly decline surplus . however , in common with the primary phase , underlie the local authority - wide picture there be variation in place pressure . the academically selective element of secondary education in Buckinghamshire add an additional element of complexity in place planning , as do cross - border movement into school in neighbour local authority , which the hon . Lady and my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) reference . nearly £ 1 . 5 billion have be announce to support local authority to create the mainstream school place need over the current and next two academic year , up to and include the academic year begin September 2026 . the funding be not ringfence , subject to the condition set out in the publish grant determination letter , and nor be it time - bind , mean that local authority be free to use it to well meet their local priority . they can use it to fund place in new school or through expansion of exist school , and they can work with any school in their local area , include academy and free school . we have a hugely increase population in Slough and south Bucks , as well as a high need for SEND provision . I just want to ascertain whether the Minister and her Department will factor those consideration into their determination over a new school in Burnham , on the boundary of Slough and south Bucks , to ensure that the right decision be reach for a new school . my hon . friend raise some important point , both of which be factor that the Buckinghamshire and Slough local authority , where relevant , will have to take into consideration when determine how to use their allocation . Buckinghamshire council have be allocate just below £ 11 . 3 million to support the provision of the new mainstream school place that it feel it will need over the current and next two academic year , up to and include September 2026 . we have also announce £ 740 million in high need capital for 2025 - 26 to support child and young people with special educational need and disability , or who require alternative provision , and we will confirm the specific local authority allocation later in the spring . the important point be that this new funding can be use to adapt classroom to make they more accessible for child with special educational need . it can be use to create specialist facility within mainstream school that could deliver more intensive support , to adapt they to meet pupil need , alongside continue to provide place to support the pupil in special school with the most complex need . will the Minister commit to work with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to review the impact of home - to - school transport rule on the situation ? in Hillingdon , there be around a 20 % vacancy rate due to fall pupil number . all London borough contribute to Transport for London , and therefore transport to school on London public transport be free . however , if Buckinghamshire wish to take advantage of those vacancy , bring those child to school in Hillingdon would be a general fund cost to council tax payer . clearly , in efficiently provide those place , it may well be that by look at those cross - border transport issue we could produce a beneficial outcome for my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , and for the school that would thereby benefit from additional pupil . the hon . Gentleman raise an import point , which be something the Department be very focused on . indeed , we need to work with local authority to deliver on that . the aim of the Department ' s home - to - school travel policy be to ensure that no child be prevent from access education because of a lack of transport . local authority be require to arrange free travel for child of compulsory school age who attend their near school but can not walk there because of the distance or because of a special educational need , disability or mobility problem , or because the route be not safe . there be also additional right to free travel for low - income household , to ensure that they can exercise school choice . however , I recognise the challenge that the hon . Gentleman raise . it relate to the investment that we would like to see in mainstream provision — indeed , it be why he jump up as I be talk about this — to make it more suitable and to adapt it where necessary , in order to have much great inclusion of child with special educational need and disability , so that they can be educate in their local area , wherever possible , with their peer . that will ensure well outcome for those child , but it will also tackle some of the grow challenge that he quite rightly identify with school transport . the hon . member for Beaconsfield mention a specific request for confirmation on a local special school application — she tempt I to get ahead of announcement that will be make in due course . they be under consideration . where child have highly complex need , it be obviously important that we have those specialist school place available in the right place for the child who need they . we be committed to ensure that all school co - operate with their local authority on school admission and place plan to ensure there be sufficient school place where they be need . school and academy trust be expect to work collaboratively and constructively with local authority and other key partner on place planning . we recently reinforce that expectation through the revised " make significant change to an academy " guidance . to strengthen it far , we be legislate to require all school and local authority to co - operate on admission and place planning . this new duty will aim to foster great co - operation between school and local authority in these important area , as well as provide a backstop for address serious failure when co - operation be simply not happen . we be also legislate to make change to the legal framework for open new school . we will end the legal presumption that they should be academy in favour of prioritise any local offer that meet the need of child and family , allow proposal for other type of school to be put forward where a new school be need , include proposal from local authority themselves . these change well align local authority ' responsibility to secure sufficient school place with their ability to open new school . the Government be entirely focused on the quality of education and experience that child be receive at school , rather than the name above the door . all school have an important role to play in drive high and rise standard so that every child can thrive , and , indeed , that will help local authority to make the decision that be right for the child in their area . we want all child to be able to attend a high - quality school of their parent ' choice whenever possible . in 2024 , 98 . 5 % of child in Buckinghamshire be offer a place at one of their parent ' or carer ' top three preferred primary school , and just over nine out of 10 — 91 . 1 % — receive an offer of their first preference . at the secondary phase , 91 . 2 % of pupil in Buckinghamshire receive an offer at one of their parent ' or carer ' top three preferred school , with about three quarter — 75 . 8 % — receive an offer of their first preference . I thank the hon . member for Beaconsfield for bring this matter to the House ' s attention , and I thank the other member who contribute to the debate . it be obviously important for child to be able to gain access to school place — ideally in their local community — that will enable they to achieve and thrive . I appreciate the case that the hon . Lady have make , but it be clearly to Buckinghamshire council that the case must be make . the Government will continue to work with our local authority colleague , who have a statutory duty to ensure that enough mainstream school place be available . that include provide fund through the basic need grant and continue support through our pupil place planning adviser , and introduce new legislation require all school and local authority to co - operate on admission and place planning , so that every child in every community can have a good local school . question put and agree to . House adjourn .