I commend my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure this important debate . I understand more than most the issue with property service charge , because I be a leaseholder where I live in Hoddesdon . a quarter of my constituent live in flat or maisonette , and 25 % of property transaction in Broxbourne last year involve leasehold property , but shockingly , as we have hear , it be hard to find any leaseholder who have a good word to say about their landlord or their service charge . landlord and solicitor do not provide enough information to new resident , and far too often prospective resident be not properly inform before they move in about how much service charge have increase in previous year . they be then hit with huge rise down the line . it be also unclear where the money be go . a resident in Waltham Cross tell I : " the service charge have skyrocket from around £ 800 to £ 6 , 000 for each leaseholder , yet live condition remain extremely dire . resident here face ongoing issue include trespasser , mould , broken security door , mice infestation and squatter . our building also have several defect , include weak floor , fire safety issue , and ongoing leakage . at one point my flat become uninhabitable after a severe leak that take month to resolve " . I hear these story again and again from constituent who come to I as the contact of last resort after month and sometimes year of neglect to their property . in that case I meet the management company involve , RMG , early this year , but nothing have change . whether it be RMG , FirstPort , Bamptons , EN8 Homes or Warwick Estates , leaseholder deserve well from their landlord and management company , who focus purely on collect ever high charge for bad service . however , by far the bad treatment of leaseholder in my constituency have be at the hand of — I hope the Minister be listen to this point — labour - run Enfield council . I be first contact by resident on the Whitefield estate in May last year , and what I hear leave I outraged . completely out of the blue , Enfield council be demand up to £ 50 , 000 from each leaseholder for " urgent " repair . roof that have never have a leak be earmark to be replace , and window would be fix , even though they have be use for year without issue . understandably , my resident immediately ask , " what about my service charge ? " well , as the Leasehold Advisory Service say , many landlord collect money out of the service charge for a sink fund , to help cover the cost of exactly these kind of major work . but not Enfield council . no , it expect my constituent to stump up all the cash , even after raise the service charge that year and , as far as the resident be concern , have not spend a single penny on the estate in decade . the Whitefield estate tenant association , and in particular leaseholder Nicky McCabe , have work incredibly hard to bring the community together in response to this issue . they simply demand straightforward answer to straightforward question , but they be meet with confusing statement from Enfield council representative , who find it far too easy to say , " that ' s not my job . " I attend the meeting . there be a number of director from Enfield council there , all of whom earn significant sum of money , and they could not answer basic question from my constituent about how much they would have to pay , and what be go to change on the estate . the communication be shocking . my constituent ' fight be still ongoing , and they have my full support .