we be take every step we can in relation to the steel industry because it be vital that we give it the support that it need . we need steel in this country . we need to steel make in this country , and our plan and our mission mean that we be go to need more steel , not less . it be the duty of the Government to ensure that job , community and people be not ignore in the transition and that job be protect . the Business Secretary will provide an update to the House this afternoon . I be grateful for that kind offer . of course I will readily accept a visit to Burnley — perhaps through the lens of my role as the local growth and town Minister . we could have a very interesting visit and I would be glad to do it . I be conscious of the time ; I be go to run out of it , unthinkably . we may have to pick up any further intervention in a different form , because I want to get to the point about building insurance , lending and service charge raise by my hon . friend the Members for Runcorn and Helsby ( Mike Amesbury ) , for Eltham and Chislehurst and for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) . one thing we know be that there have not be enough change in this space over the past seven year , but there have be change in the insurance bill that many leaseholder have be face . we understand the financial and emotional impact that extreme insurance premium have be have on leaseholder . affected leaseholder have be burden with pay too high premium for too long . I assure colleague that we be work actively to reduce premium for leaseholder , and we be review how well to protect leaseholder from cost and push for fair premium for leaseholder in building with fire safety issue . colleague have talk about buying , sell or remortgage home . we have see improvement in that space , but we remain vigilant . we will continue to hold particularly the 10 large lender to account follow their commitment to lend on property even where remediation be not yet complete . they must keep that promise . on service charge , by law , variable service charge must be reasonable . as colleague have raise , that have be stretch significantly by some of the practice we have see . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 contain measure to ensure that leaseholder get key financial and non - financial information so that they can scrutinise and hold to account the organisation that they be work with on service charge . not all of that legislation have be commence ; secondary legislation be require , but we be work on that actively . we just want to get it right . my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) talk about the pace of remediation . again , we accept that the pace be too slow ; we have say that throughout , and what we have see in Dagenham and Slough be horrific reminder of the risk that unsafe clad still pose to far too many people . the Deputy Prime Minister have be very clear on her intention to drive that forward — again , there be that political will — and to get more action out of manufacturer , freeholder , developer and organisation with responsibility for make sure that building be safe . too many building owner be still not act quickly enough , so we will investigate , pursue the most egregious actor who be create unacceptable delay , and hold they to account . the message from this Dispatch Box and from this Government be clear : " use the route we have create to get your building fix , and get on with it . " I now turn to the point make by the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) and the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) about the inquiry . the right hon . Gentleman express concern that the report would be shelve , and the hon . Lady be concerned that it would just be word , so again , let I make the commitment — this speak to the response I give to my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) — that the report ' s recommendation must be consider with the seriousness that this tragedy deserve . we will look at all 58 recommendation in detail ; there will be a debate on the Floor of this House ; we will respond in full within six month ; and we will be listen to the community throughout the process . we will update Parliament annually on our progress so that we can be hold to account , but we will also get on quickly with the thing we can do , whether that be speed up remediation or reform construction product . the change have not be at the pace that it ought to have be , but it will get well . I can commit that the report will not , as the right hon . Gentleman have say , just be shelve — far from it . the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) and for Woking ( Mr Forster ) mention building under 11 metre . our approach to clad remediation have be to prioritise the risk of loss of life . it be generally accept that the risk to life be proportional to the height of building , so the risk to life be usually low in building under 11 metre , and they be very unlikely to need the same costly remediation . build safety remediation work may be require in a very small number of those building , but so far , our casework as a Department over the past couple of year show that of the more than 160 case that have be raise , only three have fall into that category . as such , we think that be an appropriate distinction to draw . my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) make a point about RAAC . this issue be different in Scotland than it be in England : Scotland have its own responsibility , which the Scottish Government must work within , and as I say to my hon . friend , we will work within the good practice too . it be the duty of building owner , include local authority if they be the owner , to fulfil their duty to manage building safety and performance risk of all kind — include RAAC — in a proportionate manner . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , talk about personal evacuation plan , or peep . we must ensure that the most vulnerable in our society be protect . on 2 September , through a write ministerial statement , the Government announce that the Home Office will bring forward in the autumn proposal to improve fire safety and the evacuation of disabled or vulnerable resident in high - rise and high - risk residential building in England . those proposal will be call residential peep . through they , resident with disability and impairment will be entitle to a person - centre risk assessment to identify the appropriate equipment and adjustment to aid their fire safety and evacuation , as well as a residential PEEP statement that say what vulnerable resident should do in the event of a fire . the Government have commit funding next year to begin that important work by support social housing provider to deliver peep for their renter . the shadow Minister also mention product hallmark . we stand by what be say in the write ministerial statement — I would have hope that give enough confidence — but for clarity , this be about strong standard , not weak standard . I hope the hon . Gentleman can take confidence from that .