Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — cost of Childcare what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the cost of childcare on family income in Northern Ireland . whether he plan to provide increase funding for childcare in Northern Ireland . early education and childcare be devolve matter , so policy and spending decision be for the Northern Ireland Executive . it be vital that a new Executive be form to ensure that all available funding be use to maximum effect in Northern Ireland . the Minister know that free childcare be not available in Northern Ireland , but be he aware of the serious consequence that people across the north be face , particularly woman ? Childcare be extremely expensive in Northern Ireland — the most expensive outside of London — so something really need to be do . rather than tell I that this be just a matter for the Executive , who be not even sit , can he tell I what he be do right now to secure free childcare for those woman , and who be he speak to about it ? I know that the hon . Lady do not mean to implore I to ride roughshod over the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , but we need to abide by the devolution settlement in that agreement . Northern Ireland have its own childcare system , and it be the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Executive and the Northern Ireland Department of Education to put in place the much - need policy for childcare support that the hon . Lady quite rightly raise . successive Executives have not prioritise funding for childcare provision equivalent to that in England , despite have funding to do so through Barnett consequential , so I hope she will join with I in say to an Executive — which , of course , we hope will be restore — that they really do need to take care of childcare . give that a post on the Prime Minister ' s no . 10 Instagram account this week celebrate Northern Ireland ' s business with the irish tricolour , do the Minister think that parent would get a well child deal with the Republic ? I be confident that somewhere there be a junior communication professional lament the fact that they accept the automatically generate flag on that Instagram post , and I do not wish to deepen their embarrassment by go far . the hon . Gentleman will have notice that I be proud to put out on my own Instagram the lapel pin that I be currently wear . Windsor Framework what recent discussion he have have with business in Northern Ireland on the implementation of the Windsor framework . what recent discussion he have have with business in Northern Ireland on the implementation of the Windsor framework . yesterday be the 49th anniversary of the Birmingham pub bombing that kill 21 people and injure 182 — the deadly act of terrorism in England during the trouble . at this juncture , we should remember those who lose their life , and in this 25th year of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement it be important to remind ourselves of the progress that have be make since 1998 . I recently attend a roundtable with the Northern Ireland Institute of Directors , and I meet regularly with Northern Ireland business to discuss a whole range of issue , include the Windsor framework . official across the UK Government be also in regular contact with business about implementation of the framework . we have continue the ongoing implementation of the Windsor framework , roll out the first phase of the green lane on 1 October , cut red tape and lift ban on everyday product . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to business in Northern Ireland . could he tell the House how many of they be now register with the UK internal market scheme ? I be happy to confirm that more than 7 , 000 business have now register with the UK internal market scheme , of which over 3 , 000 be business that do not benefit from the previous scheme . all of those business can now move their good free from any costly issue and tariff . in the future , business register under the scheme will also be able to avoid complete custom declaration as we continue implementation of the Windsor framework . do the Secretary of State accept that for as long as there be custom declaration , physical search and ID check for business move good from Great Britain into Northern Ireland , even in the green lane , the Prime Minister ' s view that there be no " sense of border in the Irish sea " will ring hollow ? with the great respect to my hon . friend , I do not accept that . when we agree to the Windsor framework , we commit to a certain number of EU law be maintain in Northern Ireland , which have be of economic benefit to Northern Ireland even up to this point and will continue to be in future . pretty much everybody involve in movement across the Irish sea — the business involve , include the new business use they — believe that they be simple and very straightforward . I call the DUP leader . far to that excellent question from the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) , our objective be to ensure that Northern Ireland ' s place in our big market , the United Kingdom , be restore and protect in law . will the Secretary of State work with we to ensure that , where good be move from Great Britain to Northern Ireland , they be not subject to EU custom process that be neither necessary nor fair and right ? save for reason of animal health and the risk of smuggling , there should not be check on those good . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , and I very much enjoy work with he on a regular basis to try to achieve the aim he have set out . we have so far go a long way in this space with the Windsor framework , but I look forward to continue engagement with he in the next few day , because we do need to find a resolution to these issue that also mean we can re - form Stormont and deal with the other domestic issue in Northern Ireland . I thank the Secretary of State for the additional support that have be provide to business affect by flood in Northern Ireland . will he work with we to ensure that , whatever additional support be require for the recovery of town such as Downpatrick , Newry and Portadown be deliver by Northern Ireland Departments work together with the Northern Ireland Office ? I would like to thank the local council and the Northern Ireland civil service for the work they have do on this so far . the flooding , which I know we will talk about a bit later , be extraordinary and so many people be affect who do not expect to be . some £ 15 million have be assign for that at this point in time , but the right hon . Gentleman be quite right to say that the consequence of the flood will have ramification for month and year to come . University Performance whether he have have discussion with the Northern Ireland Department for the Economy on improve the performance of northern irish university as measure by the impact ranking . Northern Ireland have outstanding university and a high share of its population be educate to degree level . my ministerial colleague and I have the pleasure of regularly engage with queen ' s University Belfast and Ulster University , and we be proud to promote these institution in the rest of the UK and internationally . I have glance at the ranking to which the hon . Gentleman refer , and I be look forward to hear his further question . be the Minister aware that when I be speak on the deck of the titanic centre only two week ago , I be think about he and the Conservative Government ? be he also aware that I be speak to university and local business that be deeply worried about the inability of university and business to get answer from the Government to enable they to meet the target of the very important impact assessment from the United Nations ? as keen as I be to keep abreast of the hon . Gentleman ' s thought , I be not aware of his particular insight on that occasion . of course , we continue to work with the university and the Northern Ireland civil service , and I be keen to work with he on the success of those university . what we need above all , of course , be for an Executive to return so that we can work through some of the issue before we . staff and student at queen ' s University Belfast be do some incredibly impressive work on cyber - security . what can minister do to ensure that that expertise be deploy to make we a more cyber - resilient nation ? I be most grateful to my right hon . friend . I have the pleasure of visit the national Centre for Secure Information Technologies , and I have a particularly interesting time test some of its system — I do not think I should comment any far on that particular experience . we be always keen to promote its work , and I be grateful to she for give I the opportunity to say on the record that it do a fantastic job . together with the National Cyber Security Centre , I be sure it will continue to promote cyber - security in the UK and , indeed , abroad . Public Services : Budgetary Constraints what discussion he have have with the Administration in Northern Ireland on the potential impact of budgetary constraint on the delivery of public service in Northern Ireland . what discussion he have have with the Administration in Northern Ireland on the potential impact of budgetary constraint on the delivery of public service in Northern Ireland . what discussion he have have with the Administration in Northern Ireland on the potential impact of budgetary constraint on the delivery of public service in Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland ' s finance be unsustainable , I be sorry to say , and the Departments be face difficult decision to live within their budget . that be why my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have direct the Departments , use power under the Northern Ireland ( Interim Arrangements ) Act 2023 , to launch public consultation on measure to support budget sustainability and raise more revenue . I thank the Minister for that answer . the Prime Minister announce on Monday that one of his five new key priority be to improve education across these island , yet at the same time his Government be starve Northern Ireland ' s Department of Education of £ 300 million . we all know that the Government love fantasy economic , but surely the idea that cut £ 300 million from education will improve it be a flight of fantasy too far even for this Government . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be right when he say that education be the close thing we have in public policy to a silver bullet , but I say to the hon . Gentleman that the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council have acknowledge that Northern Ireland be currently receive the funding it need through a combination of the Northern Ireland block grant , locally generate revenue and additional UK Government funding package . those additional package amount to some £ 7 billion in additional funding since 2014 . I be afraid that the reality for school in Northern Ireland be that they be long overdue reform , and the cost of run a divided education system be considerable . we need to see much more integrated education and much more efficiency , to ensure that child get the education they richly deserve . recent analysis show that Northern Ireland ' s budget over the past three year have be cut by £ 2 . 3 billion in real term . on top of that slow decline , the UK Government have withhold million in funding , force budget cut on Northern Ireland Departments . why do the Minister think it be okay to punish the people of Northern Ireland for the political impasse of their representative ? it be not our view that the people be be punish for an impasse . the reality be that the budget situation be difficult for all the devolved nation . the hon . Lady will know that in Northern Ireland , Wales and Scotland , difficult decision have to be take in order to live within our mean . this government be take the necessary step to assist the Executive in balance the book . whoever be responsible for the current stalemate in Northern Ireland , it be not young people in the country ' s school . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) have point to the desperate shortfall in funding . be the Minister aware that teacher in Northern Ireland have not have a pay increase for three year , so effectively they have take a pay cut that be now over 20 % ? can he explain how that will help to maintain the proud record of education in Northern Ireland that he speak about a few minute ago ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that teacher have not hesitate to impress that point on I when I have be in Northern Ireland . it be a matter that we have under active consideration , but I be unable to satisfy he today . my right hon . friend have mention additional UK Government funding , and an important element of that be level - up bid . we on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee note with concern that no Northern Ireland application be successful in the recent third phase . can he assure I that a sum of funding be be set aside for Northern Ireland project ? if so , can he give we an indication of the likely amount be set aside ? my right hon . and learn Friend be right to highlight the issue . a number of thing have be say about this matter that be not the case . the money will be make available in Northern Ireland , and it have be set aside . if memory serve , it be about £ 15 million , but I would need to double - check — if I be incorrect , I will write to he . the reality be that we need decision to be take by a restore executive , and the Government be keen to work with Northern Ireland Ministers to that end . I be grateful to he for highlight this point and give I the opportunity to say that the money will be spend in Northern Ireland . [ Official Report , 29 November 2023 , Vol . 741 , c . 7mc . ] I call the shadow Minister . follow on from that question , community across Northern Ireland be angry about the Government ' s decision to exclude they from the late round of level - up funding . the Government have say that be because Stormont be not sit , but that be a poor excuse , because round 2 funding be allocate to 10 project in Northern Ireland in January this year , when the Executive be also not in place . only £ 120 million of the pot of £ 5 billion have be allocate to Northern Ireland so far . there be a huge additional need in community , but million be be hold back , as the Minister have just say . will the Secretary of State commit to reverse this unjust decision with immediate effect ? the hon . Lady make her point with great force but , as I just say to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , the money will be spend in Northern Ireland . we be keen to work with Northern Ireland Ministers to that effect . when it come to the overall level of money require , the hon . Lady will know that we have just put more than £ 700 million into PEACEPLUS , which will help support Northern Ireland . the reality be that we be work hard to ensure that Northern Ireland have the funding it need , but in order to sort out the problem that Northern Ireland face , we need a restore Executive and , I be afraid , revenue raising . we need to be work with Northern Ireland Ministers to make sure that we get the public service reform that be so urgently need . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . may I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s remark on the anniversary of the Birmingham pub bombing ? our thought continue to be with all who be affect by that tragedy to this day . the UK Government , as we have just hear , be hold back levelling - up funding for Northern Ireland , ostensibly because of the lack of a function executive . however , the UK Government be seemingly content to bypass the view of the government in place in Edinburgh and Cardiff in allocate levelling - up funding . be the point of consistency not about a desire to level up , but just that there be a shortage of conservative mps in Northern Ireland who need to shore up their re - election prospect with public cash ? it be easy to throw out a cheap political line like that , but as the hon . Member have hear I say to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , the reality be that that level up money will be spend in Northern Ireland . I can certainly assure he that none of that money have appear in my marginal seat of Wycombe — even though the whole House will know it be undoubtedly the most deserving and most beautiful constituency in the nation . Flood Recovery Funding what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the funding for flood recovery in Northern Ireland announce on 8 November 2023 . the flood have see devastating consequence for business and household , so the Government have work hard to come forward with a substantial package that be consistent with our approach across the UK . in the absence of an Executive , we be make up to £ 15 million of support available through the reallocation of exist Northern Ireland funding . we have work closely with colleague in the Northern Ireland civil service and the Treasury to ensure that the Northern Ireland civil service and local council can provide affected business with the support they need . I thank the Minister for that response . he will know that there be real concern about whether that funding be adequate — I think he will hear about that in a moment — but can I ask about future adaptation and prevention ? such flood be often talk about as a once - in - a - century or once - in - a - lifetime experience , but we know that be not the case from England and that the community will need protection for future occurrence . the hon . member be absolutely right to raise that . she will know that such matter be mostly for the Department for Infrastructure in Northern Ireland . that be why we be so keen to get the finance on a sustainable basis and achieve the long - term change that be need . that , of course , include have a strategic plan for adaptation . I hope to have the opportunity in this role to work with a Northern Ireland Executive to those end . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I join the Secretary of State in his remark about all those who lose their life in the terrible Birmingham pub bombing . we remember they . last week , in Downpatrick , Newry and Portadown , I see the terrible effect of the flooding on business and household , many of whom can not get flood insurance and therefore face huge loss . can the Minister assure we that once the initial £ 7 , 500 have be pay out to all business from the money that the Secretary of State announce during his visit , the Treasury will approve proposal for the use of the rest of the money quickly so that business affect can receive help and get back up and run again ? if more be need , will he provide it ? the rest of the money be within the power of the Northern Ireland civil service to spend , because it be reallocate funding . alas , the Treasury be not under my control — all I can say be that I look forward to the day . I thank the Minister for that answer . trader will expect to see the money spend . there will have to be a review of what happen during the flood to learn lesson for the future , include thing such as the need for a warning system — there be not currently one in Northern Ireland — well flood defence , and flood protection , which will all need funding in the year ahead . in the continue absence of the Executive , which be really need at a time like this , do the Minister agree that there should be a review ? do the Northern Ireland civil service have the power to establish such a review ? if not , will the Secretary of State do it ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that a review be need . I believe that it be possible for the Northern Ireland civil service to get on with that work under the power that we have give it . if it transpire that that be not the case , I will write to he and put a copy of the letter in the Library . he be right — the insight he provide be wise and necessary — that we all want to work together to see a restore executive , because it be for Northern Ireland Ministers to work with their Department for Infrastructure to deal with such matter . fiscal Floor what assessment the Government have make of the potential merit of introduce a fiscal floor for Northern Ireland . I thank the hon . member for the proposal that he and his party have share with I regard these matter , as well as those of the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) . I read his article in the irish Times early this morning with great interest , but he will know that such change be not exactly the silver bullet and will need some negotiation . I appreciate that there be a need for a negotiation . a fiscal floor be vital to Northern Ireland . can the Secretary of State ensure that any fiscal floor be drive by evidence , base on the work of the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council , draw on the work of Professor Holtham in Wales , and properly reflect the devolution of policing and justice , as happen in 2010 around need ? there be always some debate on the basis of need , and the Fiscal Council outline what it should be in its eye . in general principle , the answer be yes . a lot of conversation be to be have , and the Fiscal Council helpfully publish a report early this year , but I remind the hon . Gentleman that the proposal for Wales take over seven year to negotiate . Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery what discussion he have have with the chief commissioner and the commissioner for investigation at the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery since their appointment . to update the House , Sir Declan Morgan and Peter Sheridan have be identify as chief commissioner - designate and commissioner for investigation - designate , respectively . Sir Declan commence work in June and Peter Sheridan be due to start in December . formal appointment will take place only once the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery be legally establish . the commissioner - designate and I have be in contact about a range of issue , mainly through correspondence , include in lead the search for the remain commissioner . I be sure that when those meeting finally take place , the Secretary of State will take the opportunity to raise the numerous crime commit in the Republic of Ireland against Northern Ireland , and challenge they over state - sponsor terrorism there . in his dozen of meeting with Sinn F é in , can the Secretary of State explain if he have take the opportunity to challenge Sinn F é in about its boycott of the institution here ? when will he ask Sinn F é in member to come back here and do their job ? as you would expect , Mr Speaker , I meet all the political party and their party leader in Northern Ireland and here , where their party leader exist . everyone know the view of this Government about people who do not turn up and take the oath in this place , but I have to work with all party and will continue to do so . teach assistant : fund if he will have discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential merit of allocate additional funding for teach assistant in Northern Ireland . pay policy in Northern Ireland be devolve , and it be not for the Government to make those decision . I be sure the hon . Gentleman would agree that such decision should be make by the Northern Ireland Executive , with Ministers return there . I know that the Minister have a deep interest in the affair of Northern Ireland , and in the wage of classroom assistant . only last week , thousand of non - teach staff go on strike from Northern Ireland school . the action be call over an escalating row over pay , where thousand of people walk out . will the Minister commit to investigate that in term of the Barnett consequential ? can he ascertain what can be do to support teaching assistant in Northern Ireland ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise this issue . we be actively consider representation make by trade union . he raise an important point , and I know that he understand that it be a matter for the Executive . I hope that one day , he and I will be able to celebrate some progress on these issue . power Sharing what step his Department plan to take to help restore power sharing in Northern Ireland . what recent discussion he have have with political party in Northern Ireland on the restoration of the Northern Ireland Executive . I will answer those question from my beautifully tabulate pack . our focus remain on deliver for the people of Northern Ireland , who expect and deserve locally elect decision maker to address the issue that matter to they . I will continue to engage regularly with the party leader , and believe there be genuine willingness on all side to re - establish the condition for the devolved institution to go back to work and to thrive . we have hear in this House today how disappointed Northern Ireland be at no successful levelling - up bid . I visit Coleraine football club , which be disappoint to be unsuccessful in round 2 . be the Secretary of State confident that the restoration of power sharing be close ? Northern Ireland simply can not afford to lose out on even more money . I be glad that the hon . Lady go to Coleraine football club ; I go there and have a wonderful experience with a great football team . I would have love to referee , but I be not allow . I believe that we be move close to a decision . discussion be still to be have , and they be continue at pace and at length . we have already hear today an example of how the people of Northern Ireland be disadvantage by the lack of a function Executive . I would add to that list the deployment of the apprenticeship levy and the reform of the renewable heat incentive . do the Secretary of State agree with I that civil servant in Northern Ireland face an almost impossible job in try to steer the ship of state without co - ordinates set by the politician elect there ? [ interruption . ] I thank my right hon . friend for his question and his obvious popularity in the House . I agree with he . he be completely correct that there be a whole host of issue that require elect Ministers in Northern Ireland to take their place . I would like to place on record my thank to the Northern Ireland civil service for the work they have be do in such circumstance with the limited guidance we have give they , because they have be do a sterling job on behalf of the people of Northern Ireland . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 22 November . I know the thought of the whole House will be with the family and friend of the four teenager who die in a car accident in north Wales . I be sure we will touch on it later , but let I just say that we welcome the agreement reach overnight for a humanitarian pause in Gaza . this be something that we have push for consistently and be a crucial step towards end the nightmare for the family of those take hostage in Hamas ' s terror attack and address the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . today , the Prime Minister ' s Government will say that disabled people have a duty to work from home or lose their benefit , as if a suitable job of this kind be something that can be conjure up at will . it should be obvious to anyone that this kind of punitive policy be not incentivise work ; it be simply punish disabled people who be already among the most marginalise in our community . so can the Prime Minister do his duty and tell we now how many of the 137 , 000 job on the Department for Work and Pensions " find a Job " website be role that specify that you can work from home ? it would not be right to pre - empt the Chancellor ' s autumn statement , but let I just say this : I be proud of the Government ' s record in support those with disability . not only have we close the disability employment gap and increase the number of employer who be now disability confident , we be also make sure that we support those who be most vulnerable in our society , not least with the cost of living payment this year , which include £ 150 for all those on mean - test disability benefit . do the Prime Minister agree that the measure take to get we through the economic shock cause by covid and Putin ' s war be right for that time , but they be not the blueprint for the long - term successful economy of the future ? it be innovation and skill , and investment in they , such as the imminent rebuild of Harrogate College or the 12 , 000 local apprenticeship we have see since 2010 . those be our foundation , and not the fantasy fairytale ten of billion of borrow from the Labour party . my hon . friend be right . I be proud that since 2010 we have create 5 . 5 million apprenticeship . that be the difference between we . we now know that the Labour party want to halve the number of apprenticeship if it be in office . meanwhile , we want to make an apprentice Education Secretary . my hon . friend be right . labour ' s plan to borrow £ 28 billion a year would just push up inflation , interest rate and taxis , undermine all the progress we have make on the economy . it be only the Conservatives who will give people the opportunity to build wealthy , more secure life for they and their family . I call the Leader of the Opposition . like the Prime Minister , I know the whole House will welcome the agreement reach overnight . we repeat our call for Hamas to release all hostage immediately . this humanitarian pause must be use to get the hostage out safely , to tackle the urgent and unacceptable humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza , and to make progress to a full cessation of hostility . in recent year , the international community have treat the two - state solution as a slogan , rather than a serious strategy . that must now change . like the Prime Minister , I be also sure that I speak for everyone in the House in say that our heart go out to the family and friend of the four young man from Shrewsbury who tragically lose their life this week . it be a live nightmare for any parent , and I can hardly begin to imagine their loss . this week , the Prime Minister unveil the late version of his five pledge for the country . let we hope that he have more success with these than he do with the last one . do he forget the NHS ? just week after I become Prime Minister , we inject record funding into the NHS and social care . we also unveil the first ever long - term workforce plan in the 75 - year history of the NHS . however , I be pleased that the right hon . and learn Gentleman mention the five pledge , because as he know , three of they be economic , and on a day on which we will focus on the economy , I be happy to report that we have indeed halve inflation — no thank to the Labour party — that we have indeed grow the economy , and that we have indeed reduce debt . that be a Conservative Government deliver for this country . the reason the Prime Minister ignore the NHS , not only in his new pledge but just now , be that 7 . 8 million people be currently on the waiting list . that be half a million more than when he pledge to bring they down nearly a year ago . the Prime Minister have just claim that this be all about economic growth , so let I ask he this : if a labourer or a care worker be force to wait a year for an operation , how be they mean to help grow the economy ? we be do an enormous amount to bring waiting list down . we be expand patient choice and roll out new community diagnostic centre and surgical hub , as well as put more doctor and nurse on our ward . when the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about target and waiting list , I just hope that the Welsh Labour Government be not listen , because after 25 year in power , they be miss every single one of his target . be they not mean to be his blueprint ? More than double the entire population of Wales be currently on a waiting list in England . the Prime Minister really need to take some responsibility . on his watch , 2 . 5 million people be too sick to work , with the majority also suffer from mental health issue , and that be on top of his failure on waiting list . can he tell we how many people be wait for mental health treatment ? we have inject record sum to expand the number of mental health treatment in our country . I have talk about the practical thing we be do , with community diagnostic centre and surgical hub , but the right hon . and learn Gentleman also do not seem to realise that the union action , which he fail to condemn , and which his member of Parliament support from the picket line , have lead to several hundred thousand cancel appointment , all make waiting list bad . he ask about Wales , and we can look at it . in Wales , more than 70 , 000 people be wait long than 18 month for treatment , whereas in England , thank to our effort , we have virtually eliminate 18 - month wait . that be the difference between we : he want to play politic , and we get thing do . so raise the waiting list by half a million be get thing do . it be " through the Looking - Glass " , this one . I ask the Prime Minister how many people be wait for mental health treatment . he know the answer ; he just do not want to give it . the answer be 1 . 2 million , and 200 , 000 be child . some be wait nearly two year to be see . would the Prime Minister accept delay of that kind if it be one of his family or friend ? one of the key thing that we be do to bring down waiting list be expand access to patient choice . it be a very straightforward idea to make sure that patient can choose where they be treat , and in that way we will bring down waiting list for mental health and other treatment far fast . the Labour party ' s policy on this be a total and utter mess . first the right hon . and learn Gentleman promise , in his word , to ban NHS use of the independent sector ; then he say that he want more use of the independent sector , and his shadow Health Secretary agree with that . but then the deputy Leader of the Opposition say that she would end it . as ever , you simply do not know what they stand for , and you can not trust a word they say . as ever , no responsibility for the shocking state of the NHS . the truth be that the Prime Minister would not accept those wait for his family , and neither should anyone else . this morning I speak to an NHS nurse . for many month , Cam struggle to find time to see her 14 - year - old son Mikey until he become seriously unwell , and now he have not be able to be in mainstream education for over a year . Mikey ' s mum be have to balance nursing with care and be a parent . this be not a one - off . there be family up and down the country in exactly the same situation : work hard and try to get through the cost of live crisis while desperately worried about relative who can not get the treatment they need . how do the Prime Minister think they feel when they see he refuse to take responsibility and boasting that everything be fine ? we be do absolutely everything we can to put money into the NHS to bring down the waiting list , because I want family up and down the country to have access to the healthcare that they need . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be absolutely right : they do deserve it , but it be incredibly gall to hear this from someone who , when there be strike happen in our hospital and people be be deny access to emergency medical care , not only do not have the strength to condemn it , but refuse to back legislation that would guarantee that access to all the family that he talk about . this be on the Prime Minister ' s watch ; it be his responsibility . thirteen year in , and all he have to offer be try to blame the Opposition for his failure over and over again . Mikey ' s mum — [ interruption . ] I will tell you what Mikey ' s mum say to I this morning , shall I , if you so be interested to hear ? she say that " whatever spin the Government put on it , you can ' t hide the reality for ordinary work people . " those be her word . worth reflect on . I be glad that in recent year real progress have be make in tackle the stigma surround mental health , but the fact remain that the suicide rate for 15 to 19 - year - old have double since 2010 and suicide be now the big killer of man under 45 . these be not just statistic ; every single one be a tragic loss to family and to friend . politic have the ability to turn this around , but it mean tough choice . if we be to scrap tax loophole , we could have thousand more staff , more support in our school , more support in our community . that would allow we to treat patient on time , get they back to work , back to their family and , crucially , give they their life back . this be about mental health . that be Labour ' s plan . will the Prime Minister back it ? it be this Government that for the first time in the NHS ' s history ensure that it have a long - term workforce plan , provide it with record funding so that we could eliminate long wait but also ensure that it have the money that it need to train record number of doctor and nurse while radically reform how they work to improve productivity . that be because , the only way we will get everyone the treatment they need be to make sure that the NHS have the fantastic staff it need , and it be this Government that have put that in place . the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about record . this be something that no Government have do in the past , and it be something that I be proud we have do . labour ' s record on this issue be clear . it be a " disastrous failure " of workforce planning . those be not my word . that be the verdict of the Labour - chair Health Select Committee . it be labour that do not train the consultant that we need now , that take 13 , 14 or 15 year to train . it be this Government that be for the first time make sure that every family will finally have the doctor and nurse that they need . access to housing that local people can afford be the big challenge we face in Cornwall . while we need to build more house , we need to ensure that they be available and affordable to local people and meet the need of our rural and coastal community . local knowledge , particularly from elect representative , be an important part of ensure that we achieve this , yet the Leader of the Opposition have make it clear that his intention be to ignore or override the view of local people in decision on planning matter . can the Prime Minister assure I and the people of Cornwall that , under his government , the view of local community will play a part in the planning process ? I thank my hon . friend for his excellent campaigning on behalf of his constituent . I agree with he that housing must meet the need of local community . our affordable home programme be deliver hundred of thousand of home across the country . crucially , on this side of the House we believe that local community must be consult , in contrast to labour ' s plan for top - down housing target , concrete over the green belt and destroy our precious countryside . I call the SNP leader . I think all of we in the Chamber be unite in our relief at report that hostage be due to be release by Hamas in Gaza , but we can not afford to lose sight of what will come at the other side of the temporary pause in hostility that we be about to see . at the end of four day , will we simply see a return to the killing of child in Gaza every 10 minute , or will we in this House choose instead to back a permanent ceasefire ? we welcome the agreement reach overnight . as I say , it be something that we have consistently push for and be a crucial first step as we try to resolve this situation and , indeed , the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . of course , we want to see all hostage release as quickly as possible , include british national , and I urge all party involve to deliver the agreement in full . I also put on record my thank to Qatar for its important role . we will continue to work with the United States and Israel to ensure the safe return of hostage and maximise the opportunity of this temporary pause to step up aid to suffer civilian in Gaza . it be something that we have push for , that we have continue to do and that the UK be play a lead role in deliver . ultimately , what we need be not a pause in the killing of child , but an end to the killing of child , and I can think of no well time than now for the Prime Minister to advocate a permanent ceasefire . give that he will not currently do that , will he instead lay the foundation for a two - state solution by finally recognise the state of Palestine ? actually , the agreement that have be reach demonstrate that it be not right to have a unilateral ceasefire . what be right be to do as we have do and consistently push for a pause that would allow not just for aid to reach the people in Gaza who desperately need it but for hostage to be release . that be what we have push for , and I be glad that that be now be deliver , versus a unilateral ceasefire that would have embolden and strengthen Hamas . our position on the middle east peace process more broadly be clear : we support a negotiate settlement lead to a safe and secure Israel live alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state . I have speak to President Abbas and meet he to discuss this issue , and we be clear about strengthen the Palestinian Authority and reinvigorate effort to find a two - state solution . our long - stand position be that we would recognise the state of Palestine when it well serve the interest of peace . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s Network North project , which will see the full £ 1 . 7 billion put into the midland rail hub . that will reopen the central platform at king Norton station , which have be derelict for so long . will he bring forward the cash so that we can increase capacity on the line and improve journey time ? will he also look at my campaign to extend the new Camp Hill line to Longbridge ? that would open up access to the new Longbridge business park , which he visit early in the year and will bring back manufacture job to longbridge for the first time since MG collapse in 2005 . I be pleased that my hon . friend ' s constituency will benefit from the decision on High Speed 2 and benefit significantly from new Network North funding — an additional billion pound to deliver the midland rail hub in full . decision about king Norton be due to be make later this year , which should be good news to he . the extension of the forthcoming Camp Hill line service between Birmingham and king Norton and Longbridge will be assess in due course , too . I hope that be helpful and I will ensure that the Rail Minister keep he update on progress . I be sure the Prime Minister will join I and the community I represent in send heartfelt sympathy to the family and friend grieve at the loss of four young man in a tragic accident in Garreg Llanfrothen this week . People in north Wales pay the high standing charge on energy bill , at £ 340 a year — a third more than in London — despite have low average income and live in old , poorly insulate house . with a further increase in stand charge due next April , the Prime Minister must recognise that he can not leave this to Ofgem . will his Government tackle unfair standing charge before winter set in ? we have provide an extraordinary package of support for household across the country to help with energy bill , total almost £ 100 billion over the past year or two . the Ofgem price cap have also fall to about £ 1 , 800 currently , and our price guarantee will remain in place until the spring of next year , which will provide further protection for family . crucially , the Chancellor announce previously that we have remove the premium pay by household use prepayment meter until the energy price guarantee end , bring their cost into line with those pay by comparable direct debit customer , and we continue to provide considerable support for vulnerable family throughout the winter with their energy bill . set strategic aim for the middle east require we to be precise about the term we use , and that include the word " peace " . peace be not just the absence of war or conflict , but the freedom from the fear of conflict , oppression or terror . peace require mutual respect , freedom from persecution and live without fear of destitution . it come with self - determination and liberation from arbitrary justice . it need hope and dignity , and enforceable right . do my right hon . friend agree that only when all the people of the middle east can achieve all those thing can any of we talk about have achieve peace ? I agree wholeheartedly with my right hon . friend on that and thank he for what he say . I know that his advice will continue to be of value to the Government as we find a way for a peaceful , more secure future for everyone live in the region . the scottish surcharge on energy mean , accord to Ofgem , that people in Scotland pay 50 % more in stand charge than londoner do , despite export 3 . 2 million hour of electricity to England in the past two month alone . meanwhile , scottish green energy producer pay high charge than english power company to connect to the grid . do the Prime Minister think that that be fair to Scotland ' s consumer and business ? I refer to my previous answer about the considerable support we be provide to family across the United Kingdom with their energy bill . the hon . Lady mention scottish business , and it would be good if the Scottish National party realise that it should support the 200 , 000 people employ in Scotland ' s North sea oil and gas industry . [ Official Report , 11 December 2023 , Vol . 742 , c . 6mc . ] the late film from Torquay ' s Unleashed Theatre Company , " 3 step " , outline the impact of homelessness . what further step do the Government plan to take to ensure that everyone have a place of their own ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the important work of his local theatre company , unleash , and I wish it well in its future endeavour . we be invest an unprecedented £ 2 billion over the next three year to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping , include by build thousand of move - on home and implement our landmark Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 , which have already prevent or relieve almost 600 , 000 household from suffer from homelessness . why be 34 % of child in my constituency live in poverty ? it be this Government who , as a result of our action , have ensure that across our country 1 . 7 million few people be live in poverty . that ' s not true . yes , it be true . not only that , but hundred of thousand few child be live in poverty , and income inequality be at a low level than we inherit from the Labour party . we do not want any child to grow up in poverty , and the good way to achieve that be to ensure that they do not grow up in a workless household . that be why the right strategy be to ensure that we provide as many child as possible with the opportunity to grow up with parent in work , and because of the action of previous government several hundred thousand more family be in that — got it . I call Darren Henry . I have a question about apprenticeship . it be vital that individual of any age can train and retrain for good local job , further education and skill opportunity that be available . will the Prime Minister work with I in my campaign to establish an apprenticeship hub in Broxtowe ? I thank my hon . friend for all his campaigning on this important issue . in his constituency , we have deliver over 9 , 000 apprenticeship in great local business , include some in the hair and beauty sector that I visit as Chancellor . while we continue to invest in apprenticeship , the Opposition want to halve the number offer . that be the difference between we : we want to give people a hand up , but all Labour want to do be to keep they in their place . with 316 arrival by small boat this week , last week ' s Supreme Court ruling on Rwanda have leave this Government ' s lack of a compassionate and function asylum system totally expose , with refugee suffer as a result and chaos at our border . do the Prime Minister now intend to disapply human right law in order to continue waste time and money on this cruel and discredit gimmick — yes or no ? I be glad the hon . Gentleman mention the small boat arrival because I be pleased to tell he that , thank to the action of this Government , the number of arrival be down by over 33 % so far this year . that be no thank to the Labour party , which have oppose each and every measure we have take to stop the boat . while the labour leadership at Kirklees Council be look to close Colne Valley leisure centre , hike up car parking charge and be criticise by auditor for the way it have manage resource , there have be lot of good news for my bit of Yorkshire this week , include £ 64 million of levelling - up cash for Huddersfield market and the Penistone rail line upgrade , and the announcement of the West Yorkshire investment zone , focus on the national health innovation campus at the University of Huddersfield . will the Prime Minister continue to invest in West Yorkshire and come and see some of these fantastic project ? what great news . I be delighted to hear that the third investment zone be announce in West Yorkshire , and about the regeneration money for the Penistone rail line upgrade and Huddersfield open market . my hon . friend be right that while Labour - run Kirklees Council be not invest , and be close thing , this Conservative Government be back community across the north . on Monday , the Government ' s chief scientific adviser , Sir Patrick Vallance , tell the covid inquiry that the now Prime Minister have not ask for advice regard eat out to help out . however , on 9 March two year ago , he tell the House , " at all step in this crisis , we have indeed take the advice of our scientific adviser . " — [ Official Report , 9 March 2021 ; Vol . 690 , c . 642 . ] who be right ? as the hon . Gentleman know , there be an ongoing statutory inquiry into covid . it be absolutely right that that process be follow . I look forward to provide my own evidence in the come week and address all these question . it be the case that the Government take advice from scientific adviser and that be exactly what the inquiry will go over . since I recently share my experience of birth trauma in this Chamber , I have be inundate by mum write to I from across the UK to share their story . last week , I receive an email from a Staffordshire mother who would like I to raise her concern about Royal Stoke University Hospital . she also experience birth trauma and have be tell that the hospital will not be able to investigate her concern because of the time that have elapse . it be not acceptable that my constituent be not have complaint investigate by my local hospital , so will the Prime Minister urgently meet I to discuss this and will he include birth trauma in the refresh update to the woman ' s health strategy ? we must do well to provide aftercare to all mother in this country . I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue and for continue to be a fantastic campaigner on birth trauma . I be pleased that the first ever debate in Parliament on birth trauma be hold recently , in October . it be powerful and move , and it highlight the significant impact that birth trauma can have on so many woman ' s life . the Department of Health and Social Care be work with NHS England to make sure we improve maternity care and relate mental healthcare . I will ensure the Health Secretary meet with my hon . friend so that we can get this right for all the woman who be depend on it . in the last 13 year , the six oil and gas licensing round by the Tories have produce 16 day - worth of oil and gas for the UK . will the Prime Minister explain how double the number of licensing round will have any impact on the insanely high energy bill my constituent be face ? if he care about energy security , job or the environment , he would surely be well match the Scottish Government ' s £ 500 million investment in a just transition and provide a £ 400 rebate to bill payer . it be not £ 500 million ; we be invest ten of billion of pound in energy transition , not least for thing such as carbon capture and storage , in which the North sea can play a star role . the hon . Lady be just completely wrong . in order to have energy security , it be right to exploit the resource that we have here at home . even the independent Climate Change Committee project that we will still need oil and gas as we make the transition and in decade ' time , so the question for the hon . Lady be : be we well off get that here at home , support scottish job and business , or be we well off put that money in the hand of foreign dictator and ship it here with two or three time the carbon emission ? today , I be host — here in the House of Commons — 14 ukrainian teenage child whose parent have be and be fight the Russians in Ukraine . six of they have be orphan . they be up in the Public Gallery , but they will also be in the Inter - parliamentary Union room from 1 pm till 2 . 30 pm this afternoon . I know that it be a busy and important day , but all colleague be welcome to drop by if they be able to do so . will the Prime Minister join I in pay tribute to the parent of these child and take this opportunity to reiterate our steadfast support for the people of Ukraine in their fight for their independence , their freedom and their nation ' s survival ? I do join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the parent of these child and many other . I also wish to take the opportunity to say that , while event in the middle east have be dominate the headline , I can assure my hon . friend that we and our ally be steadfast in our resolve to support Ukraine for as long as it take for it to achieve victory . that be why the Foreign Secretary visit both Kyiv and Odesa last week to confirm the UK ' s continue unwavering support for Ukraine . Putin can not hope to outlast the incredible resolve or spirit of the ukrainian people , and they should continue to have our support for as long as it take . a few week ago , the world cringe at the Prime Minister ' s fawn welcome for Elon Musk . this week , advertiser be flee Musk ' s platform after his late vile outburst . what exactly do the Prime Minister think he might learn from an unelected , super - rich individual who have take over a once successful organisation and plunge it into a death spiral ? it be strike that the hon . member for Cambridge — of all place ! — absolutely do not understand the importance of technology sector and company to the growth of our economy . it be absolutely extraordinary . it actually illustrate everything that be wrong with Labour ' s approach to our economy . what the rest of the world see be the UK play a lead in define the regulation and approach to a technology that will transform how we live . it be a great example of the UK lead the way and an enormous tribute to our incredible entrepreneur and business , many of which be be poorly represent by he in his constituency . today be Red Wednesday when we remember million of Christians and other worldwide who be persecute for their faith — people such as Margaret Attah , a nurse and a lovely young mother of four , who be here today from Nigeria . she hide behind the altar as her church service be attack . one hundred be injure and 41 kill that day simply for be in church . Margaret lose both leg and an eye . thousand more suffer similarly in Nigeria each year . do the Prime Minister agree that the good way that we can honour Red Wednesday today be to commit to quickly implement the good word of the new International Development White Paper , which be publish yesterday , to ensure that UK development policy go forward be inclusive of those marginalise for their religion or belief ? I thank my hon . friend for her continue dedication as my special envoy on this vital issue . red Wednesday be an important moment to demonstrate our solidarity with Christians and all those persecute around the world for their religion or belief . mark this event annually be just one of the recommendation in the Bishop of Truro ' s report . I be pleased that today we will light up Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office building in the UK in red in support . I be also pleased to say that we have take forward all 22 recommendation in a way that we believe be make a real change for those persecute for their religion or belief . that complete Prime Minister ' s question . Autumn Statement before I call the Chancellor , it may help the House if I set out how proceeding on the autumn statement will unfold . once the Chancellor have deliver his statement , copy of the resolution relate to the statement will be make available in the Vote Office and online . I will then call the shadow Chancellor and other hon . member to ask question . this will follow the usual pattern for a ministerial statement . at the end of question on the statement , the Chancellor will be call to move a motion under section 5 of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . the question on that motion must be put without debate . we will then proceed to a debate on the autumn statement resolution . a Minister will move the first of the resolution and open the debate . the debate will take place over three day , conclude on Monday . at the end of the debate on Monday , the question on the first of the resolution will be dispose of . the question on the remain resolution will then be take formally without further debate . I come today with good news : it be my wife ' s birthday and , unlike I , she be look young every year . I turn to the statement . after a global pandemic and energy crisis , we have take difficult decision to put our economy back on track . we have support family with rise bill , cut borrowing and halve inflation . rather than a recession , the economy have grow . rather than fall as predict , real income have rise . our plan for the british economy be work , but the work be not do . other propose a more short - term approach , but we have not make unaffordable pay offer to the union , we have not stop new oil and gas exploration , and we have not increase borrowing by £ 28 billion a year . that would have push inflation up just when we need to bring it down . instead , under this Prime Minister , we take decision for the long term . in today ' s autumn statement for growth our choice be not big government , high spending and high tax , because we know that that lead to less growth , not more . instead , we reduce debt , cut taxis and reward work . we deliver world - class education , we build domestic sustainable energy , and we back british business with 110 growth measure . do not worry ; I be not go to go through they all — [ interruption . ] well , I will if you like ! in summary , they remove plan red tape , speed up access to the national grid , support entrepreneur raise capital , get behind our fast - grow industry , unlock foreign direct investment , boost productivity , reform welfare , level up opportunity to every corner of the country , and cut business taxis . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that the combined impact of these measure will raise business investment , get more people into work , reduce inflation next year and increase gdp , but conservative also know that a dynamic economy depend on the energy and enterprise of people more than any diktat or decision by Ministers , so today ' s measure do not just remove barrier to investment ; they reward effort and work . I will go through the measure in three part . in the first , I will use update OBR forecast to show the progress that we be make against the Prime Minister ' s economic priority . the second part will set out growth measure to back british business . finally , I will conclude with measure to make work pay . before I start with the forecast , I want to express my horror at the murderous attack on israeli citizen on 7 October and the subsequent loss of life on both side . I will remember for the rest of my life , as I know many other hon . member will , be take to Auschwitz by the Rabbi Barry Marcus and the remarkable Holocaust Educational Trust . I be deeply concerned about the rise of antisemitism in our country , so I be announce up to £ 7 million over the next three year for organisation such as the Holocaust Educational Trust to tackle antisemitism in school and university . I will also repeat the £ 3 million uplift to the Community Security Trust . when it come to antisemitism and all form of racism , we must never allow the clock to be turn back . I now move on to the OBR ' s economic and fiscal forecast , and I thank Richard Hughes and his team for their sterling work in prepare they . three of my right hon . friend the Prime Minister ' s five pledge at the start of the year be economic : to halve inflation , grow the economy and reduce debt . today I can report to the House that we be deliver on all three . let ' s start with inflation . the shadow Chancellor do not mention it in her conference speech . my conference speech be before hers , so all she have to do be a bit of copying and pasting , which I have hear she be good at . but it speak volume that during the bad global inflation shock for a generation , it do not even get a mention . well , if control inflation isn ' t a priority for Labour , it be for we . when the Prime Minister and I take office , inflation be at 11 . 1 % ; last week , it fall to 4 . 6 % . we promise to halve inflation and we have halve it . core inflation be now low than in nearly half of the economy in the EU , and the OBR say that headline inflation will fall to 2 . 8 % by the end of 2024 , before fall to the 2 % target in 2025 . I will not take risk with inflation , and the OBR confirm that the measure I take today make inflation low next year than it would otherwise have be . I thank the independent Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee for its crucial role in bring inflation down , and we will continue to back it to do whatever it take until the job be do . but as we do , we will continue to support family in difficulty , and today I add four further measure to help with the cost of living . first , for those on the low income , I understand the concern some have about the effect on work incentive of match benefit increase to inflation , and I know there have be some speculation that we would increase benefit next year by the low October figure for inflation . but cost of living pressure remain at their most acute for the poor family , so instead the Government have decide to increase universal credit and other benefit from next April by 6 . 7 % , in line with September ' s inflation figure , an average increase of £ 470 for 5 . 5 million household next year — vital support to those on the very low income from a compassionate conservative Government . secondly , because rent can constitute more than half the live cost of private renter on the low income , I have listen closely to many colleague as well as the Institute for Fiscal Studies , the Resolution Foundation , Citizens Advice UK and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , who say that unfreeze the local housing allowance be an " urgent priority " . I will therefore increase the local housing allowance rate to the 30th percentile of local market rent . this will give 1 . 6 million household an average of £ 800 of support next year . thirdly , although I be go to increase duty on hand - roll tobacco by an additional 10 % above the tobacco duty escalator , I know that for many people go to the pub have become more expensive . I have listen closely to the persuasive argument on alcohol duty from my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , fierce champion of the Scotch whisky industry . I have also listen to defender of the great british pint such as my right hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Alun Cairns ) and my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) , to Councillor Jane Austin who be a big supporter of the Jolly Farmer pub in Bramley in my constituency , and indeed to the Sun newspaper . so as well as confirm our Brexit pub guarantee , which mean the duty on a pint be always low than in the shop , I have decide to freeze all alcohol duty until 1 August next year ; that mean no increase in duty on beer , cider , wine or spirit . finally , pensioner . the triple lock have help to lift 250 , 000 old people out of poverty since it be institute by a Conservative Government in 2011 and have be a lifeline for many during a period of high inflation . there have be report that we would uprate it by a low amount , to smooth out the effect of high public sector bonus in July , but that would have be particularly difficult for 1 million pensioner whose only income be from the state . so instead , today we honour our commitment to the triple lock in full . from April 2024 , we will increase the full new state pension by 8 . 5 % to £ 221 . 20 a week , worth up to £ 900 more a year . that be one of the large ever cash increase to the state pension , show that a Conservative Government will always back our pensioner . include today ' s measure , our total commitment to ease cost of living pressure have rise to £ 104 billion . that include pay around half the cost of the average energy bill since last October and amount now to an average of £ 3 , 700 per household . we be able to do that only because we reduce the deficit by 80 % ahead of the pandemic , which the Labour party might reflect on , have oppose we every step of the way . next , I turn to my right hon . friend the Prime Minister ' s pledge to reduce debt . before I take difficult decision at last year ' s autumn statement , debt be predict to rise to almost 100 % of gdp by the end of the forecast . since then , the economy have outperform expectation and I have take difficult decision to reduce borrowing . as a result , headline debt be now predict to be 94 % of gdp by the end of the forecast . the OBR today forecast that underlie debt will be 91 . 6 % of GDP next year , 92 . 7 % in 2024 - 25 and 93 . 2 % in 2026 - 27 , before decline in the final two year of the forecast to 92 . 8 % in 2028 - 29 . that be low in every year compare with forecast in the spring . we therefore meet our fiscal rule to have underlie debt fall as a percentage of gdp in the final year of the forecast , with double the headroom compare with the OBR ' s March forecast . we will continue to have the second low Government debt in the G7 — low than the United States , Canada , France , Italy or Japan . I turn to borrowing . the right hon . member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) say that when it come to borrowing , she " will take it up " by £ 28 billion a year . indeed , she have oppose every decision we have make to reduce our borrowing . the Government will bring borrow down , because , as the late Lord Lawson say , borrowing be just a deferred tax on future generation . I see the Leader of the opposition shake his head . in fact , we have something in common : both he and I want to make a Jeremy Prime Minister . in fairness , his party and mine be probably equally relieved that we fail but , whereas this Jeremy be grow the economy , his Jeremy would have crash it . the number show the contrast . accord to the OBR , borrowing be low this year and next , and on average across the forecast by £ 0 . 7 billion every year compare with the spring Budget forecast . it fall from 4 . 5 % of gdp in 2023 - 24 to 3 . 0 % , 2 . 7 % , 2 . 3 % , 1 . 6 % and 1 . 1 % in 2028 - 29 . that mean we also meet our second fiscal rule that public sector borrowing must be below 3 % of gdp , not just by the final year , but in almost every year of the forecast . some of that improvement be from high tax receipt from a strong economy , but we also maintain a disciplined approach to public spending . as I set out in the spring Budget , resource spending will increase by 1 % a year from 2025 - 26 in real term , and we be sustain the record 2020 increase in capital spending in cash term until the end of the forecast . within this , we will meet our NATO commitment to spend 2 % of gdp on defence — critical at a time of global threat to the international order , most notably from Putin ' s evil war in Ukraine . we also support a group of people to whom we owe our freedom : our brave veteran . I will extend national insurance relief for employer of eligible veteran for a further year , and provide £ 10 million to support the Veterans ’ place , Pathways and People programme . I thank our excellent Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) , for his championing of their cause . we have show that we be prepared to increase funding for vital public service , with record number of police officer , doctor , nurse and teacher . we be nearly double the number of doctor and nurse we train , have give the NHS its first ever long - term workforce plan , as I promise a year ago . we be also tackle the big single preventable cause of mortality that the NHS have to deal with by bring forward plan for a smokefree generation . however , alongside extra funding and support , we need to see reform . we need a more productive state , not a big one . that be why I want the public sector to increase productivity growth by at least half a percent . a year — the level at which the size of our state start to reduce as a proportion of GDP . I have already announce plan to cap and reduce the size of the civil service to pre - pandemic level . I pay tribute to the excellent former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , who start our brilliant public sector productivity programme . that will now be pursue by his formidable successor , my hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , who have already be with I to meet police , fire and ambulance personnel to understand why bureaucracy be hold they back . through that vital work , we will ensure that , over time , the growth in public spending be low than the growth in the economy , while always protect the service that the public value . I will also provide his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs with the resource it need to ensure that everyone pay the tax they owe , raise an additional £ 5 billion across the forecast period . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister also promise to grow the economy . since 2010 , despite inherit what be then the bad recession since the second world war , Conservative Administrations have preside over fast growth than many of our major competitor , include Spain , Italy , France — [ interruption . ] well , the opposition do not like to hear this , but let I tell they the list : Spain , Portugal , France , Italy , Netherlands , Austria , Germany and Japan . we have grow fast than all of they since 2010 . however , all those country have face a pandemic and an energy shock . as a result , last autumn the OBR forecast a recession in which the economy would shrink by 1 . 4 % this year . instead , it grow — in fact , it have grow fast than the euro area . revise number from the Office for National Statistics now say that the economy be 1 . 8 % large than it be pre - pandemic . look ahead , the OBR expect the economy to grow by 0 . 6 % this year and 0 . 7 % next year . after that , growth rise to 1 . 4 % in 2025 , then 1 . 9 % , 2 % , and 1 . 7 % in 2028 . if we want those number to be high , we need high productivity . the private sector be more productive in country such as the United States , Germany and France because it invest more — on average 2 percentage point more of gdp every year . the 110 measure that I take today help to close that gap by boost business investment by £ 20 billion a year . they do not involve borrow more and ramp up debt , as some advocate . instead , they unlock investment , with supply - side reform that back british business in the follow area . first : skill . no economy can prosper without invest in the potential of its people . despite strong opposition , we take the difficult decision to reform our school . England ' s nine to 10 - year - old be now the fourth good reader in the world , and since 2015 , our 15 to 16 - year - old have rise seven place in the OECD ranking for math — not least thank to the effort of my brilliant right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) . however , 9 million adult in England still have low basic literacy or numeracy skill , so last month the Prime Minister set out the new advanced british standard to ensure that all school leaver reach minimum standard in math and English . while the Labour party want to reduce the number of apprentice , we want to increase it . follow engagement with Make UK and other , I be announce a furth £ 50 million of funding over the next two year to pilot way to increase the number of apprentice in engineering and other key growth sector where there be shortage . [ hon . member : " be that it ? " ] there be 110 of these measure , so be patient , folk . I will move on to planning . it take too long to approve infrastructure project and business planning application . many business say that they would be willing to pay more if they know their application would be approve fast . therefore , from next year , work with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , I will reform the system to allow local authority to recover the full cost of major business planning application in return for be require to meet guarantee fast timeline . if they fail , fee will be refund automatically , with the application be process free of charge — a prompt service or your money back , just as would be the case in the private sector . many planning application be for house building . the Leader of the Opposition tell we that he want to be a builder , not a blocker . that do not last long : just a few month later , labour block reform to the rule on nutrient neutrality , shamelessly prevent 100 , 000 house from be build . conservative , on the other hand , be the builder , with more home be complete in 2021 - 22 than in any single year of the last Labour Government . today , we take further decision to unlock the building of more home . we will invest £ 110 million over this year and next to deliver high - quality nutrient mitigation scheme , unlock 40 , 000 home . we will invest £ 32 million to bust the planning backlog and develop fantastic new housing quarter in Cambridge , London and Leeds , which will lead to many thousand of additional dwelling . we will allocate £ 450 million to the local authority housing fund to deliver 2 , 400 new home , and we will consult on a new permit development right to allow any house to be convert into two flat provide the exterior remain unaffected . it be also take too long for clean energy business to access the electricity grid , so after talk to business such as National Grid , Octopus Energy and SSE , we today publish our full response to the Winser review and the connection action plan . these measure will cut grid access delay by 90 % and offer up to £ 10 , 000 off electricity bill over 10 year for those live close to new transmission infrastructure . take together , those planning and grid reform be estimate to accelerate around £ 90 billion of additional business investment over the next 10 year . next , on foreign direct investment , I be extremely grateful to Lord Harrington for his excellent report on how to increase foreign direct investment . we accept all his headline recommendation . in particular , we will put in place a concierge service for large international investor model on the good such service offer by our competitor , and we will increase funding for the Office for Investment to deliver it . I now turn to reform to pension fund that will increase the flow of capital go to our most promising growth company in a way that also improve outcome for saver . I will take forward my Mansion House reform start with measure to consolidate the industry . by 2030 , the majority of workplace define contribution saver will have their pension pot manage in scheme of over £ 30 billion , and by 2040 all local government pension fund will be invest in pool of £ 200 billion or more . I will support the establishment of investment vehicle for pension fund to use , include through the LIFTS competition — the long - term investment for technology and science competition , a new growth fund run by the British Business Bank — and by open the Pension Protection Fund as an investment vehicle for small define benefit pension scheme . I will also consult on give saver a legal right to require a new employer to pay pension contribution into their exist pension pot if they choose to do so , mean that people can move to have one pension pot for life . these reform could unlock an extra £ 75 billion of financing for high - growth company by 2030 and provide an extra £ 1 , 000 a year in retirement for an average earner save from 18 . alongside this , I be propose further capital market reform to boost the attractiveness of our market and make sure the UK remain one of the most attractive place to start , grow and list a company . as part of this , I will explore option for a NatWest retail share offer in the next 12 month , subject to market condition and achieve value for money . it ' s time to get Sid investing again . I now turn to measure to support our most innovative industry . in the last decade under the Conservatives , we have grow to become the third large technology sector in the world — double the size of Germany and three time the size of France . we have the big life science industry in Europe , and we be Europe ' s third large generator of renewable electricity after Germany and Norway , and the eighth large manufacturer in the world . when it come to tech , we know that artificial intelligence will be at the heart of any future growth , and I want to make sure that our university , scientist and start - up can access the compute power they need . as such , build on the success of the supercompute centre in Edinburgh and Bristol , I will invest a furth £ 500 million over the next two year to fund further innovation centre to help make we an AI powerhouse . our creative industry already support Europe ' s large film and tv sector . this year ' s all - californian blockbuster " Barbie " be film in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) — where , of course , the sun always shine . even more could be invest in visual effect if we increase the generosity of the film and high - end tv tax credit , so I will today launch a call for evidence on how to make that happen . british - discover vaccine and treatment save more life across the world during the pandemic than those from any other country , and I be incredibly proud of our life science industry . to far support research and development , I be create a new , simplified R & D tax relief that combine the exist R & D expenditure credit and small and medium - sized enterprise scheme . I will also reduce the rate at which loss - make company be tax within the merged scheme from 25 % to 19 % , and lower the threshold for the additional support for R & d - intensive loss - make sme that I announce in the spring to 30 % , which will benefit a further 5 , 000 sme . and because 2028 mark the centenary of the invention of penicillin by Alexander Fleming , I be give £ 5 million to Imperial College and Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust to set up a Fleming centre to inspire the next generation of world - change innovation . international investor say that the big thing we could do for our advanced manufacturing and green energy sector be announce a long - term strategy for their industry , so with the Secretaries of State for Business and Trade and for Energy Security and Net Zero , I be today publish those plan . I confirm that we will make available £ 4 . 5 billion of support over the five year to 2030 to attract investment into strategic manufacturing sector . that include : £ 2 billion of support for zero - emission investment in the automotive sector , which have be warmly welcome by Nissan and Toyota ; £ 975 million for aerospace , build on decade of success from firm such as Airbus and Rolls - Royce ; and £ 520 million for life science , build on the strength of world - class british pharma company such as AstraZeneca and GSK . we will also provide £ 960 million for the new green industry growth accelerator , focus on offshore wind ; electricity network ; nuclear ; carbon capture , utilisation and storage ; and hydrogen . those target investment will ensure that the UK remain competitive in sector where we be already leader , and innovative in sector where we be not . take together , that support will attract an estimate £ 2 billion of additional investment across our fast - grow innovation sector every year over the next decade . one reason why we support our manufacturing and clean energy sector be that they help to level up growth across the United Kingdom , so I now turn to far levelling - up measure . in the spring , I announce that we would deliver 12 new investment zone — 12 mini Canary Wharfs — where Government , industry and research institute will collaborate across the UK . since then , the Exchequer Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Stamford ( Gareth Davies ) , have do outstanding work across Government to bring that vision to fruition . follow tenacious representation from my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) — no Chancellor ' s speech would be complete without a mention of my hon . friend — and from the unstoppable Mayor of Tees Valley , I have today decide to extend the financial incentive for investment zone and the tax relief for freeport from five year to 10 year . I will also set up a £ 150 million investment opportunity fund to catalyse investment into that programme . on Monday , I confirm that there will be a new investment zone in West Yorkshire . today , have listen to representation from the west midland salesman - in - chief Andy Street , as well as my hon . friend the Members for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) and for Bury North ( James Daly ) , I be announce three further investment zone focus on advanced manufacturing in the west midland , east midland and Greater Manchester . together , local partner expect that those investment zone will help catalyse over £ 3 billion of private investment and 65 , 000 new job . have listen to my hon . friend the Members for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) and for Clwyd South ( Simon Baynes ) , I can announce a second investment zone in Wales in the fantastic region of Wrexham and Flintshire , which I will visit tomorrow . we be publish new devolution deal with four area , include Hull and East Yorkshire , and offer devolve power to even more county area . one of those area will be the leafiest and most charming county in the country , namely Surrey , where of course the Leader of the opposition grow up — we do not get everything right . on Monday , we see the announcement of £ 1 billion of funding through round 3 of the levelling - up fund , support project follow the campaign effort of member from Keighley , Dewsbury , Doncaster , Scunthorpe — and of course , Mr Speaker , Chorley . I can also confirm that we will proceed with over £ 50 million of funding for high - quality regeneration project in community such as Bolsover , Monmouthshire , Warrington and Eden Valley , all of which have particularly effective local mps as their champion . because we be proudly the Conservative and Unionist party , I be announce £ 80 million for the new levelling - up partnership in Scotland , £ 500 , 000 to support the Hay festival in Wales , and £ 3 million of additional funding to support the successful tackling paramilitarism programme in Northern Ireland . I turn next to small business — I run my own for 14 year , and have always know that every big business be a small business once . the Federation of Small Businesses say that the big thing I could do to help its member be end the scourge of late payment . we pass the Procurement Act 2023 , which mean that the 30 - day payment term that be already set for public sector contract will automatically apply throughout the subcontractor supply chain , but from April 2024 I will also introduce a condition that any company bid for large Government contract should demonstrate that it pay its own invoice within an average of 55 day . that number will reduce progressively to 30 day . any small business will also say that the big frustration it face be the tax it pay before make a penny of profit , not least business rate . the Government have already take a third of property completely out of rate through small business rate relief . we have freeze the tax rate for the last three year , at a cost of £ 14 . 5 billion ; we have remove downward cap from transitional relief ; and for retail , hospitality and leisure business , we have introduce a one - year 75 % discount on business rate up to £ 110 , 000 . those measure have save the average independent shop over £ 20 , 000 . it be not possible to continue with temporary support measure forever , but while the standard multipli — which apply to high - value property — will rise in line with inflation , I have today decide that we will freeze the small business multipli for a further year . follow extensive discussion with the FSB and many colleague in this House , I have also decide to extend the 75 % business rate discount for retail , hospitality and leisure for another year . this will save the average independent pub over £ 12 , 800 next year and , at a cost of £ 4 . 3 billion , be a large tax cut that recognise the role of pub and high street shop in our community . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Stockton South ( Matt Vickers ) , for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) and for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) for their tenacious campaigning on this issue . finally , I turn to the small of all business — those run by the self - employ . these be the people who literally keep our country run during the pandemic : the plumber who fix our boiler in lockdown , the delivery driver who bring we our shopping and the farmer who keep food on our plate . as part of our plan to grow the economy , I want to reform and simplify taxis pay by the self - employ , so today I be announce a major reform of one of those taxis . it be one most people have not hear of , but it be a big deal for those who have to pay it . class 2 national insurance be a flat - rate compulsory charge , currently £ 3 . 45 a week , pay by self - employ people earn more than £ 12 , 570 , which give state pension entitlement . today , after careful consideration and in recognition of the contribution make by self - employ people to our country , I can announce that we be abolish class 2 national insurance all together , save the average self - employ person £ 192 a year . access to entitlement and credit will be maintain in full and those who choose to pay voluntarily will still be able to do so , but this change simplifie and cut tax for nearly 2 million self - employ people , while protect the interest of those on the low pay . because we value their work , I be also take one further step for the self - employ . they also pay class 4 national insurance at 9 % on all earning between £ 12 , 570 and £ 50 , 270 . today , I have decide to cut that tax by one percentage point to 8 % from April . take together with the abolition of the compulsory class 2 charge , these reform will save around 2 million self - employ people an average of £ 350 a year from April . we be back small business by freeze their business rate , extend retail , hospitality and leisure relief , abolish compulsory class 2 national insurance payment and reduce class 4 national insurance by one percentage point in today ' s autumn statement for growth . small business work so hard for we , and a Conservative Government today be work hard for they . I turn now to my final measure to back british business . as I have say , since 2010 we have see the second high growth in investment of any G7 country . however , if we be to raise productivity , we need to increase business investment far . in 2021 , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister introduce the super - deduction for large business to far stimulate business investment , and this spring I introduce full expensing for three year . this mean that for every £ 1 million a company invest , it get £ 250 , 000 off its tax bill in the very same year . the CBI , make UK , the British Chambers of Commerce , Energy UK and 200 other business leader from company include BT Openreach , Siemens and Bosch , have say that make this measure permanent would be the " single most transformational " thing I could do for business investment and growth . the Centre for Policy Studies say it would " maximise business investment , boost productivity and deliver … high level of gdp " . but because it cost £ 11 billion a year , I make it clear that I would only do so when it be affordable . well , with inflation halve , borrow down and debt fall , today I deliver on that promise : I will today make full expensing permanent . that be the large business tax cut in modern british history . it mean we have not just the low headline corporation tax rate in the G7 , but its most generous capital allowance . the OBR say this will increase annual investment by around £ 3 billion a year and a total of £ 14 billion over the forecast period . we on this side of the House know that the way to back british business be not to borrow more or subsidise more , but to increase the incentive to invest . we do that today by introduce one of the most generous tax relief anywhere in the world , with a huge boost to british competitiveness in an autumn statement for growth — skill , planning and infrastructure reform , pension fund reform , support for innovation industry , level up , back small business and full expensing . under Labour , business investment be 9 . 3 % of gdp in real term . since 2010 , it have be 9 . 8 % of gdp . but today we go far because , take together , the overall impact of today ' s growth measure will be to increase business investment in the UK economy by around £ 20 billion a year within the decade — nearly 1 % of gdp at today ' s level . this be the big ever boost for business investment in modern time , a decisive step towards close the productivity gap with other major economy , and the most effective way we can raise wage and living standard for every family in the country . as well as back business , conservative know that you need to back the people without whose effort no business can succeed : the entrepreneur take risk , the builder work weekend , the nurse working night , and the jobseeker leave benefit behind . I will therefore conclude with three further supply - side reform design to improve the incentive to work in a modern , dynamic economy . I begin with welfare , and I want to start by thank the outstanding Work and Pensions Secretary for his help in develop these reform . he build on the work of my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who introduce universal credit . those reform help reduce unemployment , which have fall by over 1 million , but Opposition Members , to their shame , vote against they 30 time . they think compassion be about give money ; we think it be about give opportunity . however , post pandemic , we still have over 7 million adult of work age , exclude student , who be not work , despite there be 1 million vacancy in the economy . many can and want to work , but our system make that too hard . in the spring Budget , I announce 30 hour of free childcare for work parent of one and two - year - old . that plan , still oppose by the party opposite , start roll out in April . it will help ten of thousand of parent return to work without have to worry about damage their career prospect . today , we focus on help those with sickness or disability and the long - term unemployed . every year , we sign off over 100 , 000 people on to benefit with no requirement to look for work because of sickness or disability . that waste of potential be wrong economically and wrong morally . so with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , last week I announce our back to work plan . we will reform the fit note process so that treatment rather than time off work become the default , we will reform the work capability assessment to reflect great flexibility and availability of home work after the pandemic , and we will spend £ 1 . 3 billion over the next five year to help nearly 700 , 000 people with health condition find job . over 180 , 000 more people will be help through the universal support programme , and nearly 500 , 000 more people will be offer treatment for mental health condition and employment support . over the forecast period , the OBR judge that these measure will more than halve the flow of people who be sign off work with no work search requirement . at the same time , we will provide a furth £ 1 . 3 billion of funding to offer extra help to the 300 , 000 people who have be unemployed for over a year without any sickness or disability . but we will ask for something in return . if , after 18 month of intensive support , jobseeker have not find a job , we will roll out a programme require they to take part in mandatory work placement to increase their skill and improve their employability . if they choose not to engage with the work search process for six month , we will close their case and stop their benefit . take together with the labour supply measure I announce in the spring , the OBR say we will increase the number of people in work by around 200 , 000 by the end of the forecast period , permanently increase the size of the economy . I know that some on the Opposition Benches would prefer to fill those vacancy in a different way ; they hanker after a more liberal immigration regime or even dream of bring back free movement . but conservative say that we should unlock the potential we have right here at home . we do that with the big set of welfare reform in a decade in today ' s autumn statement for growth . if we be to incentivise work , we must also tackle low pay . People who get up early , put in the hour and work hard for their family deserve to be pay fairly . since 2010 , those on the minimum wage — now the national living wage — have see their hourly wage go up from £ 5 . 80 an hour to £ 10 . 42 an hour . that be a real - term increase of more than 20 % . because we have also double the threshold at which they pay tax or national insurance , their after - tax income have go up not by 20 % , but by 25 % — more than for any other income group . today , I confirm that we will go far and accept the Low Pay Commission ' s recommendation to increase the national living wage by 9 . 8 % to £ 11 . 44 an hour . that be the large - ever cash increase in the national living wage , worth up to £ 1 , 800 for a full - time worker . since the national living wage have be introduce , the proportion of people on low pay — define as earn less than two third of national median hourly income — have halve , but at the new rate of £ 11 . 44 an hour it deliver our manifesto commitment to eliminate low pay altogether . that mean that by next year someone work full time on the national living wage will see their real take - home , after - tax pay go up not by 25 % , but by 30 % compare with 2010 . and that be the difference : the Labour party try to reduce poverty by tinker with benefit and tax credit — they want to move people from just below the poverty line to just above it — but conservative know that the good way to tackle poverty be through work . by reform the welfare system , reduce the number of workless household and tackle low pay , we have help lift 1 . 7 million people out of absolute poverty since 2010 , because a central part of our plan for growth be to make work pay . I move to the final supply - side measure in today ' s autumn statement for growth . because of the difficult decision that we have take in the last year , today ' s OBR forecast show that borrowing will be low than forecast in the spring , debt as a proportion of GDP will be low than forecast in the spring , inflation will continue to fall and our fiscal headroom have double . I say I would cut taxis when we could , but only responsibly and only in a way that do not fuel inflation . the OBR today confirm that I can deliver a package that do that . for business , I have today deliver the big business tax cut in modern british history , with the most competitive investment allowance of any large economy . for the self - employ , I have simplify and reform their taxis by abolish the compulsory class 2 charge and cut class 4 national insurance . but high employment taxis on 27 million people work in the public and private sector also disincentivise the hard work that we should be encouraging . on top of income tax at 20 % , they pay 12 % national insurance on earning between £ 12 , 570 and £ 50 , 270 . that be a 32 % marginal tax rate . if we want people to get up early in the morning , if we want they to work night , and if we want an economy where people go the extra mile and work hard , we need to recognise that their hard work benefit we all . so today I be go to cut the main 12 % rate of employee national insurance . if I cut it by one percentage point to 11 % , that would be an extra £ 225 in the pocket of the average worker every year . but instead I be go to go far and cut the main rate of employee national insurance by two percentage point , from 12 % to 10 % . that change will help 27 million people . it mean that someone on the average salary of £ 35 , 000 will save over £ 450 . for the average nurse , it be a saving of £ 520 . for the typical police officer , it be a saving of £ 630 every single year . I would normally bring in such a measure for the start of the new tax year in April , but instead I will tomorrow introduce urgent legislation to bring it in from 6 January , so that people can see the benefit in their payslip at the start of the new year . the OBR say that reduce a tax on work mean more people in work , and it say that today ' s measure on national insurance alone will lead to the equivalent of 94 , 000 full - time employee in our economy , because low tax mean high growth . that be the difference between those of we on this side of the House and those on that side . in 13 year , Labour raise taxis in every single Budget , but conservative cut taxis when we responsibly can , and today we do just that . we cut taxis to help big business invest . we cut taxis to help small business grow . we cut taxis for the self - employ who keep our country run , and from January we cut taxis for 27 million work people whose hard work drive our economy forward . the good university , the clever scientist and the smart entrepreneur have give we Europe ' s most innovative economy , but we can be the most prosperous too . in the face of global challenge , we have halve inflation , reduce our debt and grow our economy . as a country , we be stick to a plan that be work . this autumn statement for growth will attract £ 20 billion of additional business investment a year in the next decade , bring ten of thousand of people into work and support our fast grow industry , in a package that leave borrow low , leave debt lower and keep inflation fall . we be deliver the big business tax cut in modern british history , the large ever cut to employee and self - employ national insurance , and the big package of tax cut to be implement since the 1980 . it be an autumn statement for a country that have turn a corner ; an autumn statement for growth . I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . today the Chancellor have lift the lid on 13 year of economic failure . we be tell that this be to be an autumn statement for growth , but the economy be now forecast to be £ 40 billion small by 2027 than the Chancellor say back in March . growth have be revise down next year , the year after , and the year after that too . the Chancellor claim that the economy have turn a corner , yet the truth be that , under the Conservatives , growth have hit a dead end . what have be lay bare today be the full scale of the damage that this Government have do to our economy over 13 year , and nothing that have be announce today will remotely compensate . we see mortgage rise , taxis eat into wage , inflation high , with price still go up in the shop , public service on their knee , and too many family struggle to make end meet . as the sun begin to set on this divide , out - of - touch , weak Government , the only conclusion that the british people will reach be this : after 13 year of the Conservatives , the economy be simply not work and , despite all the promise today , work people be still bad off . the centrepiece of today ' s autumn statement be a cut in the headline rate of national insurance . I be old enough to remember when the Prime Minister want to put up national insurance . as recently as January last year he say : " we must go ahead with the " increase in the — " health and care levy . it be progressive , in … that the burden fall most on those who can most afford it . " utter nonsense . it be a tax on work people , and we oppose it for that very reason . yet again , the Prime Minister be leave argue against himself . in response to last year ' s autumn statement , I warn that the Government be pickpockete work people through stealth taxis . I have long argue that taxis on work people be too high . indeed , I say in my conference speech that I want they to be low . from the Conservatives ' failure to uprate income tax or national insurance band to their force council to raise council tax , they have push the cost of their failure on to other . the british people will not be take for fool — they know that what have be announce today owe more to the cynicism of a party desperate to cling on to power than to the real priority of this high tax , low growth Conservative Government — so we can forgive taxpayer for not celebrate when they see the truth behind today ' s announcement . go into the statement , the Government have already put in place tax increase worth the equivalent of a 10p increase in national insurance , so today ' s 2p cut will not remotely compensate for the tax increase put in place by this Conservative Government . the fact be that taxis will be high at the next election than they be at the last . this be the legacy of the Conservatives , and that be their record . the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have spend the last two week march their mp up a hill only to march they down again on inheritance tax . let we not forget that when they realise that they have money to spend — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Cairns , I have hear you chirp all the way through . either go and get yourself that cup of tea or be quiet . when the Government realise that they have money to spend , their first instinct be a tax cut for millionaire . in the end , even they realise that they could not get away with it in the middle of a cost of living crisis . will the Chancellor tell the House whether cut inheritance tax be a decision delay or a decision abandon ? this autumn statement for growth be now the 11th conservative economic growth plan from the fifth prime minister , the seventh Chancellor and the ninth Business Secretary . what do those number add up to ? accord to the most recent GDP datum , a big fat zero . that be zero growth in the most recent datum for the third quarter of this year . the Chancellor mention some country that we be outperform in growth , but I could not help but notice that he fail to mention any of the many advanced economy that have grow fast than the UK . over the last 13 year of this low - growth Conservative Government , the UK languish in the bottom third of OECD country when it come to growth . there be 27 OECD economy that have grow fast than we in the 13 year since 2010 : the US , Australia , Canada , Sweden , Slovenia and 22 other . in fact , over the next two year , no few than 177 economy be forecast by the IMF to grow fast . [ interruption . ] order . they don ' t bother I , Mr Speaker . it bother I . I be not be funny . I expect courtesy to be show to the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . those who do not wish to give that courtesy , please go and find something else to do . my constituent be interested , even if yours be not . next year , we be forecast to be the slow grow economy in the whole of the G7 . when it come to economic growth , under the Tories , we be more world - follow than world - beat . let we look at how the Conservatives ' record on growth compare to labour ' s record on growth . under the Conservatives , GDP growth have average 1 . 5 % a year . with Labour , it grow by an average of 2 % a year in the 13 year that we be last in office . have the economy continue to grow at the rate it do under Labour , it would now be £ 150 billion big . what be the Government ' s economic record ? low growth and high borrowing , with debt more than double — it be now at almost 100 % of gdp . that be a product of their failure over 13 year . a Tory Government who have fail on growth , fail on debt , fail on levelling - up and fail on the cost of living , too . now they expect the british people to believe they when they say they will turn it all around , when they be the problem , not the solution . if we be go to grow the economy , we must get more people into work . let I be clear : people who can work , should work . that be why we have long argue that the work capability assessment need replace , because right now it be discourage people from seek work . but there be a wide problem that yet again the Government be fail to face up to . Britain be the only country in the G7 where the employment rate still have not return to pre - pandemic level , with the increase in the number of people out of the workforce due to long - term health issue cost the taxpayer a staggering £ 15 . 7 billion a year . nhs waiting list have swell to 7 . 8 million — an additional half a million since the Prime Minister say he be go to cut they — and 2 . 6 million people be out of work due to long - term sickness . a healthy nation be critical to a healthy economy . that be why Labour have pledge to cut hospital waiting list , invest an additional £ 1 . 1 billion a year to deliver 2 million more appointment , scan and operation . it will be fund by abolish the non - dom tax status and replace it with a modern scheme for people genuinely live in the UK for short period . but , once again , we see that that policy have be veto by the Prime Minister . the good way to get people back to work be to get our nhs working , but the reality be you can never trust the Tories with our NHS . the Chancellor have make great fanfare about public sector efficiency and value for money . that be from a Government who have blow £ 140 million on a discredit Rwanda scheme and yet be not able to send a single asylum seeker there , £ 7 . 2 billion of money lose on fraud during the pandemic — all those cheque be sign by the former Chancellor , the current Prime Minister — and £ 8 . 7 billion on personal protective equipment that have be write off . high Speed 2 be cost £ 57 billion , with not a single piece of track go north of Birmingham . no one can trust the Tories with taxpayer ' money . it say it all that after 13 year of Tory Government , there be still nearly 12 , 000 nhs computer run on outdated software that be vulnerable to cyber - attack . ten year ago , when he be Health Secretary , the now Chancellor promise a paperless NHS by 2018 , yet today , in 2023 , 26 NHS trust be still use fax machine . why on earth should people who experience deteriorate public service under this Conservative Government trust they to fix that , when his six year as Health Secretary make he one of the big architect of failure ? Mr Speaker , " if you put your hand into people ' s pocket and take money out of they , and they do not see visible improvement in the service they receive , they get very angry indeed . " — [ Official Report , 14 September 2021 ; Vol . 700 , c . 851 . ] those be not my word but the Chancellor ' s word two year ago . I agree with he . the Tories have have 13 year to improve public service and they have fail . this be too little and too late . I do welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement of additional funding to tackle antisemitism and Islamophobia to keep our community safe , as well as the additional money for the Holocaust Educational Trust . there be no place for hate in our society , and I know that across the House we will work together to eliminate it . the Chancellor call this an autumn statement for growth , but it be Labour that have lead the agenda on growth . today , we see that the Conservatives have release their own poor cover version of what we have already announce . the Chancellor be talk about unlock capital by reform pension , but Labour would go far , encourage investment in british start - up and scale - up firm and introduce measure to ensure the consolidation of pension fund , so that our pension system get well return for saver and for the UK economy . on planning , the Conservatives be follow Labour ' s lead on take money off bill for community that host grid infrastructure and on speed up planning decision . what have take they so long ? labour will get Britain build again , with a once - in - a - generation set of reform to accelerate the building of our country ' s national infrastructure and to build housing , too . we will fast - track battery factory , our life science and 5 g technology , to grow our economy and provide good job in every part of our country . we welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement that he will make full expensing permanent — another thing that we have be call for . but that do not make up for the year of uncertainty that business have face , with taxis go up and down like a yo - yo . small and medium business , which play a pivotal role in grow our economy , be leave expose to the Tories ' economic volatility . labour ' s partnership with business will get our economy fire on all cylinder . that be why this week we establish a new british infrastructure council , with key investor in the UK economy focus on unlock private investment by address the delivery challenge that business face when invest in Britain . through Labour ' s new national wealth fund , we will work alongside the private sector to back the growth of british industry , so that we can make the crucial transition to a zero - carbon economy . for every pound of public investment , we will leverage in three time as much private investment , while also get a return for taxpayer . labour ' s plan will boost our economy , get debt fall and make work people well off . if we listen to member on the Government Benches , we would believe that the cost of living crisis be behind we . but inflation be still double the Bank of England ' s target rate . I know the importance of low and stable inflation from my time as an economist at the Bank of England . it be welcome that the Chancellor have accept this year ' s recommendation from the Low Pay Commission — which we set up — on the minimum wage , but the reality of the Conservatives ' record be that average wage for work people have be hold back . under this Government , real average weekly wage have increase by just 3 % in 13 year , compare with a 27 % increase under the last Labour Government — worth an additional £ 120 every week for someone go out to work every day . today be Equal Pay day , so it be important to recognise that the living standard of work woman have also be hold back by a gender pay gap that I be determined to close . the Chancellor and the Prime Minister say that the cost of living crisis have be deal with . everything might look a little well 10 , 000 foot up in a helicopter , but down here on planet Earth , people be approach Christmas and the year ahead with worry and trepidation . the cost of living crisis have hit we hard because Tory mismanagement have leave we so exposed . some 11 million UK household do not have enough saving to cover three week of living expense if they need it . work family have be skate on thin ice for too long . as their resilience have be erode , so have our national economy ' s . let we not forget that this Government oversee the closure of our critical gas storage facility , which leave our country more expose to huge fluctuation in international energy market . the former Prime Minister — that is , four Prime Ministers ago — cut energy efficiency programme , lead to high bill for homeowner . just last year , we see the true cost of the Conservatives when their kamikaze Budget crash the economy , lead to market turmoil , pension in peril and a spike in interest rate . some 1 . 6 million family will see their mortgage deal end this year . those re - mortgaging since July have see their payment rocket by an average of £ 220 every month . next year , 1 . 5 million family will face a similar fate . the Conservatives ' economic recklessness inflict a Tory mortgage penalty on family across the country . in Wellingborough , family with a mortgage will be expect to find an additional £ 190 every single month . in Richmond , north Yorkshire , homeowner face £ 200 more a month on their mortgage . in the Chancellor ' s own constituency — though maybe not for long — family with a mortgage will see an average increase of £ 420 a month because of this Conservative Government ' s economic failure . give increase cost for landlord — the Chancellor know something about that — renter be pay a high price , too . the truth be that work people just do not have that sort of money lie around . this be what we have come to after 13 year of Conservative Government . this be the record upon which people will judge the Conservatives at the next election . tory economic recklessness be not a thing of the past . the british people be still pay the price . we say , never again . last week , Labour table an amendment to the King ' s Speech to put our fiscal lock into law . it would prevent a repeat of last year ' s economic horror show , yet the Tories vote against it . it be clear that today , Labour be the party of economic and fiscal responsibility . what have the Conservatives learn ? absolutely nothing . the country be cry out for change . a decay Government can change their personnel but they have fail to change the direction of our country . in 13 year , we have have seven Chancellors . he would not run a business like this ; he can not run a country like it , either . the Prime Minister can not even promise that this Chancellor will be in place at the next election . we have all hear the report : when they first come together , it be a fairytale marriage , but one year on , the relationship have hit the rock . the pair have grow apart , with rumour run rife that the Prime Minister already have his eye on someone else . whoever this Prime Minister pick as Chancellor , the truth be that Britain be and will be bad off under the Conservatives . they have hold back growth , crash our economy , increase debt , trash our public service , leave business out in the cold and make life hard for work people . our country can not afford five more year of the Conservatives . the raven be leave the tower when even Saatchi & Saatchi say that the Tories be not work . the question that people will ask at the next election , and after today ' s autumn statement , be simple : do I and my family feel well off after 13 year of Conservative Government ? do our school , hospital and police work well after 13 year of Conservative Government ? in fact , do anything in Britain work well today than when the Conservatives come into office 13 year ago ? we all know that work people be bad off under the Conservatives , with growth down , mortgage up , price up , tax up and debt up . their time be up . it be time for change — a change Labour party to lead Britain and to make work people well off . I be afraid that the shadow Chancellor have show once again that Labour have nothing credible to say on the economy . she tell the paper this morning that she will accept these measure , as one would expect from a copy and paste shadow Chancellor . in all sincerity , I particularly welcome her conversion to support full expensing , which she vote against in the House ; copy and paste in the national interest be welcome on the Government Benches . she compare growth rate under Labour and the Conservatives , but she carefully omit one fact : Labour inherit a golden legacy from the Conservatives , and proceed to trash the economy before hand it over . on growth , the right hon . Lady do not like it when I remind she that , under the Conservatives , we have grow fast than any other major european economy . she say she be now convert to conservative supply - side reform on welfare , so I look forward to her vote with we in the Lobby on those , but her main policy be a demand - side boost to growth , increase borrowing by £ 28 billion a year , with absolutely no plan to repay it . the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , do not appear to be in his place . this morning he ask for more action on inflation . well , the first thing labour could do be drop its damaging inflationary plan to ramp up borrowing . on the NHS , despite our have more doctor and nurse , and more patient treat in good or outstanding hospital , what the right hon . Lady do not mention be that the only place where NHS funding have be cut — not once but twice — be Wales , with the long hospital wait in Britain . perhaps we should talk about what have happen after 13 year , when we repair labour ' s damage : unemployment down , poverty down , crime down , low pay down , school fund up , NHS funding up , job up , growth up . conservative know that low tax be the path to high growth and today we make a start . rise — Order . before I call the Chairman of the Treasury Committee to ask a question , I want to make it clear to the House , because there be some confusion , that this be not the procedure we use for a Budget . this be the autumn statement ; it be , therefore , a statement . right now , we be take question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer . once that have conclude , we will go on to the debate . I have a list of people who want to make speech — there will be some overlap and I be pay attention to that . what a difference a year make . we have see a reduction in the rate of inflation from 11 . 1 % this time last year down to 4 . 6 % this month , and we hear yesterday from the Governor of the Bank of England that he expect inflation to return to its target over the course of the next year or so . I be interested to hear that there be 110 measure in the announcement today which will drive growth in the UK economy . I welcome the fact that the Office for Budget Responsibility be now forecast that this year we will see growth in the UK economy , in contrast to its forecast this time last year of a recession . the Committee look forward to examine the 110 growth measure in detail next week , when we hear from both the OBR and the Chancellor himself . can the Chancellor tell the House overall how much his measure will improve growth and how much they will help to drive down inflation over the course of next year ? I thank my hon . friend , who speak very wisely about the economy as Chair of the Treasury Committee . the OBR be very specific about that . it say that the measure I take today will permanently increase gdp by 0 . 3 % and that the measure I take in the spring Budget will permanently increase gdp by 0 . 2 % . take together , those measure will increase GDP by 0 . 5 % . I call the SNP spokesman . I thank the Chancellor for advance sight of his redaction . Madam Deputy Speaker , the Chancellor want you to think he have pull a rabbit out of the hat , but all he have do be pull the wool over many people ' s eye . thing be still get bad for people . inflation be still more than double the target , which mean price and cost for people in their home be still go up day by day . the cost of living crisis go on and people need help now . the economy , far from the cry of the Chancellor , be stagnate . on his watch , it be grow by nothing more than a sliver of a percentage . the Chancellor try to take credit for thing that he should be do anyway and that the Government promise , or thing they have already do and that they be now take backwards step on . I will come on to that in more detail . the energy price cap go up tomorrow and it be schedule to go up again in January . cost will continue to increase for people . I welcome some small measure — support for veteran , the national insurance class 2 abolition and the significant measure for business to make full expensing permanent — but the rest do not bear the scrutiny that I hope they will get from proper analyst over the next few day . the burden be still high for people . the tax burden in the UK be still the high it have be for seven year . as the Institute for Fiscal Studies have point out , even after the Chancellor ' s measure , tax be high than it be three year ago . in reality , the measure go nowhere near cover the cost of living crisis face by people across the nation of the UK who be struggle with mortgage and rent , food bill and energy bill . we ask for mortgage interest tax relief to help those see their monthly bill go up and for measure to help renter . why have the Chancellor ignore those people who be struggle ? on food bill , we ask for action to help people at the checkout and reduce their cost , as France , Canada and Greece have do . why have he choose not to intervene on food and help people ? we ask for a range of measure this winter to help people who will be face even high bill than they have last year , such as a £ 400 energy bill rebate , a low price cap and a social tariff . why have he choose not to help those who will not be able to afford to heat their home this winter ? will he at least rule out the plan increase in the cap in January ? we ask the Chancellor to commit to increase working - age benefit in line with inflation next year . will he commit to do that ? once again he have choose to punish the most vulnerable with his welfare change . the nasty party be back in business for good . not support people be a choice and we all know what that choice be for this Government . this Government be on the record as work to the principle , " let people die " . we want to hear about vat cut for tourism and hospitality , and how to get skilled worker to fill our vacancy , but he have choose to ignore those stress on our sector . we ask he to lay off the Scotch whisky industry , and it be good that he have freeze the duty , but — enormous pause — he have freeze it at the rate he already increase it to , so the Scotch whisky industry be still pay 75 % in tax under this Tory UK Government . isn ' t it funny how Scotland be always tell it be too poor until the Government need to raise money from our export and natural resource ? then , miraculously , rich be find ! we ask the Chancellor to invest in net zero . he make some announcement , but when we work down all his green investment plan and what he call " green energy " we will find most of the money go into nuclear , the white elephant of the energy sector . [ interruption . ] as my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) say , it be an absolute shamble . we ask the Chancellor to match the £ 500 million energy transition fund for the north - east of Scotland , but he have choose to ignore those opportunity , highlight again why we need the full power of independence in Scotland . we ask the Chancellor to deliver , across the UK , additional funding for public service to allow we to help council , the NHS and more , and he have choose to ignore that call . as I have say , he have choose not to help people who be struggle with the cost of living crisis . he could have help mortgage and rent payer , he could have help those who be struggle to pay for food , and he could have help people with their energy bill . in the Scottish National party , our value lead we to want to alleviate poverty and strive to get rid of it altogether . we seek measure — now and in the future — to help people , and we be act now , freeze council tax , invest in childcare and say no to tuition fee . we be use limited power to mitigate this nasty Tory Government ' s cruel policy , such as the rape clause and the bedroom tax . we be keep our water , our rail service and our NHS in public hand . we be not , like the Tories and Labour , hold the door open for private company to rush in . we have previously step in where Westminster have fail to boost broadband coverage , to increase our renewable , and to champion the just transition . we choose to put our people first . those be our value — value that build a fair , more prosperous Scotland . the Scottish Government have take the step that they can take to help to alleviate the bad impact of poverty , offer people a degree of stability through the council tax freeze and a cap on rent increase . we would do more , but the fiscal power that be need be currently in the Chancellor ' s hand . we would choose to help . today the Chancellor have the power to help people , to lift a finger to right some of the wrong of this government that he have inflict on they , but people be not this Government ' s priority . we know who go through their priority lane . why be this UK Government fixate on tent when they should be worried about rent ? they have little to offer Scotland . our route out of the chaos that Westminster have create , and the perma - austerity of the cost of live nightmare that people be have to endure , be through independence and rejoin the EU . we must have that choice . I think the hon . Gentleman prepare his comment for the autumn statement that he want I to deliver , rather than the one that I actually deliver . for example , he complain about the tax burden be the high for seven year , but what he do not say be that in Westminster we have take difficult decision and cut taxis , whereas in Scotland the SNP run out of money and have to raise they . he talk about punish the most vulnerable , but just look at the measure that we have take . he talk about renter , but do not mention the fact that we have increase the local housing allowance , which will mean £ 800 of help for 1 . 6 million of our poor people . he do not mention the fact that we have increase benefit by 6 . 7 % , which be double next year ' s expect inflation , and have increase the state pension through the triple lock by 8 . 5 % , nearly three time next year ' s predict inflation . here be the most uncomfortable truth for the SNP . they have be in power in Edinburgh for long than the Conservatives have be in power in Westminster , but scottish GDP be still low , scottish employment be still low , and scottish inactivity be still high . the reason be for that be very simple . they focus on separation , while we focus on growth . I know what be well for family in Scotland , who will today see we get growth go , cut taxis , and back scottish business . I call the Father of the House . the Citizens Advice office cover my constituency will be grateful for that fact that the local housing allowance have be change . the people who supply drink , and drinker , will be pleased that alcohol duty be be freeze , at least for the time be . that will help drinker , and will also not increase inflation . I be glad that the Chancellor point out to the shadow Chancellor that the only time the Labour Government do really well be when they obey the conservative rule between 1998 and 1999 , before they let go of the valve and drive the economy to the point at which , when we take over , they be spend £ 4 for every £ 3 of Government revenue . may I now ask the Chancellor to respond , not today but in time , to an injustice do to 500 , 000 pensioner overseas ? Anne Puckridge , who be bear five year before the Chancellor ' s father , serve in intelligence in the Navy , the Army and the Royal Air Force during the war , and retire to Calgary on a pension of £ 72 a week . it be still £ 72 , instead of £ 156 . that be an injustice which need attention , and I hope Anne Puckridge will get it and we will have proposal that will enable we to change this bad situation . I thank the Father of the House for his comment , and I will look into the issue of overseas pensioner as he request . if I may , I will write to he , but I be also happy to talk to he about it . may I also thank he for his comment about what happen in 1997 ? then as now , the Labour party be try to say that its economic policy be basically the same as those of the Conservatives , but the reality be quite different . because Labour do not fix the roof when the sun be shine , the recession after the financial crisis be much bad . the Chancellor do not mention the freezing of tax threshold , which be due to rake in £ 52 billion in the next six year . be that an omission , or be he leave the freeze in place ? I have never hide the fact that we take difficult decision a year ago , such as freeze the threshold , in order to get borrow under control and in order to tackle inflation . however , because the economy since then have outperform the expectation of nearly every independent body , we be able this time to reduce the tax burden , and I choose to reduce the thing that will boost growth . let I first declare my business interest . I welcome the measure to promote more investment and more growth , which be vital . we have lose about 800 , 000 self - employ people since February 2020 . the national insurance measure will help a bit , but will my right hon . friend look again at the way in which IR35 prevent they from expand their business and get contract ? the measure to promote the growth of small business be also welcome , but the VAT threshold act as a strong disincentive to expand a business when it reach a certain point . I thank my right hon . friend . I have extensive discussion with he in the run - up to the statement , include many discussion about the self - employ . indeed , it be partly his advocacy of the role of the self - employ that make I so enthusiastic about make the national insurance change that I be able to make . I hear what my right hon . Friend say about IR35 . we take our decision partly because of concern about avoidance , but I be happy to look at that again . as for the vat threshold , many other colleague have make the same point . we do have the high threshold in any major european country , and , indeed , any G7 country , but there be always this issue of the cliff edge , and my right hon . friend be right to draw my attention to it . can the Chancellor confirm that living standard will drop by 3 % in the next year ? what I can confirm to the hon . Lady be that a year ago they be predict to fall by 3 . 7 % , and now the OBR say that they will increase this year by 2 . 5 % . the people of Blaby and Glen Parva be listen attentively to the Chancellor ' s welcome statement . they will go to the poll on 21 December for two by - election , a county council and a ward by - election . what positive message have the Chancellor for the resident , the business , the pensioner and all the people of work age in Blaby and Glen Parva about his welcome financial statement ? what I would say to the business in Blaby and Glen Prva be that for every single small business we have freeze business rate , and we be roll over a 75 % discount on business rate for every pub , restaurant and high - street shop for another year . we want to do everything possible to back small business , because they be the lifeblood of our community . this statement be a deception from the Chancellor after year of unfair tax hike . under this Conservative Government , economic growth be flatline and public service be on their knee . this year , 400 , 000 people be still on NHS waiting list , have be on they when the Chancellor make last year ' s autumn statement . these people have be cruelly let down . in his statement last year , the Chancellor say : " you do not need to choose either a strong economy or good public service . " — [ Official Report , 17 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c . 856 . ] will he look the british people in the eye and admit that he have give they neither ? I think that the hon . Lady should be careful with her language when she be say thing like that . I be very clear when it come to growth . we have grow fast than any major european economy since 2010 . yes , while interest rate be high — as they need to be , because we be bring down inflation — growth be more subdued , but if the hon . Lady listen to , for example , those in the International Monetary Fund , who be independent commentator , she will hear they say that when we have get inflation back down to target , we will have high growth than France , Italy and Germany . when it come to the NHS , we put an extra £ 3 . 3 billion into the NHS budget in the autumn statement last year . with doctor ' strike happen in most of the period since then , it have be difficult to make progress on waiting list , and I hope that the hon . Lady will address her comment to those doctor if she be go to be consistent . it be a pleasure to speak from the Back Benches for the first time in a while . I massively welcome the statement , and particularly the emphasis that the Chancellor have give to skill and the superb work that have be do by the Department for Education at the same time . in Herefordshire , we worry about the pollution in our River Wye . will he consider talk far with the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs about whether some package could be put in place to support the long - term improvement of that river ? I congratulate my right hon . friend on his sterling work as a Minister . when it come to pollution in the River Wye , he will know that the Government have make change require the water company to invest more than £ 50 billion in the year ahead , but he , like I , want to see fast progress and I will happily give he any support I can . I welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement on benefit uprating . it be not , as he claim , a mark of compassion but it be at least deliver the essential minimum , and I congratulate the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on achieve that . for the past three year , the household support fund have enable local council to provide an important safety net for family face the great hardship . will there be a household support fund next year ? yes , there will . that answer be quick than I expect ! my right hon . friend propose a whole series of planning reform . one of the problem for local authority up and down the country be a lack of planning officer to determine those planning application , and it will clearly take time to recruit and train new people . there be also a risk that the premium service for large - scale development will mean planning officer switch to those role rather than determine the day - to - day planning application . do my right hon . friend understand that we will need to recruit more people ? do this need legislation , and what be the timeframe for he to introduce these change ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . I want to assure he that I have have extensive discussion with the Communities Secretary to ensure that we implement these reform in a way that do not lead to unintended consequence . the most important thing be that by allow the big application to have full cost recovery with respect to local council , we can start to get more resource , which will mean that we can train up more planning officer and avoid delay not just for the big application but for all of they . do the Chancellor agree that the Prime Minister be wrong last year to try to increase national insurance ? what the Prime Minister want to do then be what he have deliver as Prime Minister , which be to find a way to deliver extra funding to the NHS . what we as conservative believe be that tax the economy more lightly will lead to high growth , mean that we can fund our public service well . I be sure that the people of the Cotswolds will welcome enormously many of the measure in this statement , but can I just mention one subject that be dear to my heart , the tourist tax ? there be no mention in my right hon . friend ' s excellent statement of the tourist tax . british tourist go abroad spend billion of pound , benefit those country , yet the figure show that we actively discourage high - spend tourist from come from abroad to benefit our shop and hospitality venue . I reassure my hon . friend that we want to do everything possible to make our tourism and retail industry competitive . we want to encourage international visitor . we change policy on this issue a year ago because it cost around £ 2 . 5 billion a year and we do not think we could afford to continue it , but we be look again at the number in the light of the most recent datum and we can see what have happen to comparative shop in Paris and Milan . we will review this to see if it be still that expensive , and I hope that it be not . many of the measure in the statement today will have spend consequence that will apply to England and Wales . I welcome many of they , because they be growth measure , such as get the long - term unemployed and long - term sick into work , help the creative industry and support business rate . will the Chancellor confirm that those measure will be subject to Barnett consequential payment , and if they be , will the freeze on Barnett consequential payment to Northern Ireland apply ? I can confirm that for reserved matter there obviously would not be Barnett consequential , but where matter be not reserve , there would be consequential . our priority in funding for Northern Ireland remain the restoration and return of a locally elect and accountable Executive , but in the meantime we will continue to support the Province in every way we can . have my right hon . friend give any consideration to , and have the Treasury carry out any analysis of , the effect on economic policy of mistaken forecast from the Office for Budget Responsibility ? I think my right hon . friend might ask a question of that ilk . I would gently say to he that not just the OBR find that its forecast be wrong ; nearly every commentator as well as the Bank of England and the International Monetary Fund do too . I be pleased to say that , in every single case , they have find the british economy have outperform their expectation . I also welcome the increase in social security uprating by September ' s inflation rate , but I agree with the Chair of the Select Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , that it be the bare minimum . I be incredibly concerned about the proposal for a workfare approach . the Chancellor will be aware that Errol Graham weigh four and a half stone when he be find in his flat , have starve to death . that be because there have be no contact from Department for Work and Pensions officer and he have not be able to respond , so they just stop his support . give this , and give that so many Secretaries of State for Work and Pensions have say that we do not have a statutory safeguarding duty , what be the estimate of the number of social security claimant who will die as a consequence of these measure ? I know that the hon . Lady would not ask I to comment on an individual case , but I say to she that what we be introduce be not workfare ; it be support to help people into work . we be spend £ 2 . 5 billion over the next five year to help more than 1 million people . we think that that be the route out of poverty and away from dependency . I welcome the Chancellor ' s comment that a world - class education be essential for economic growth , and there be many measure to welcome , include the extra funding for the Holocaust Educational Trust , the £ 50 million for apprenticeship and the tax cut of more than £ 600 for teacher . of course , many people work in education will also welcome the nearly 10 % increase in the national living wage , but it will put great pressure on school employ teaching assistant and on our nursery , which we be so keen to expand and support . can I urge the Chancellor to engage closely with the sector and with the Department for Education to make sure that we can meet those pressure when it come to fund high need in our school and to grow the early year sector ? my hon . friend be a big expert on education and I always listen to what he say . he be right to say that the average teacher will see an increase of £ 630 in their take - home pay next year because of the 2 % cut in national insurance contribution . when it come to the national living wage , I absolutely hear what he say , but for many school and nursery the issue be recruitment — find people to fill the role . this change will make that much easy . the Chancellor mention support for carbon capture and storage and for hydrogen , and the Prime Minister early speak of support for the oil and gas sector . the Chancellor will be all too aware of this morning ' s announcement of the intend closure of the Grangemouth oil refinery , which represent a huge 4 % of scottish gdp and provide hundred of job . what discussion have he have with the Energy Secretary , with Petroineos or with the Scottish Government with the aim of try to stop this closure before its disastrous impact can come to pass ? we be obviously monitor the situation extremely carefully , but it be our priority to support the oil and gas and refinery industry . we have make some big change to do that , and we would welcome support from both side of the House in do so . I commend the Chancellor for the compassion and enterprise incentive that shine through his statement . I thank he for the UK retail disclosure framework , although I have not see the detail , and for the promise of a statutory instrument to resolve the legislative issue with cost disclosure for investment company . can he assure I that that will correct the over - zealous regulation that be make investment company look unduly expensive and thereby restrict investment ? I have have many discussion with my hon . friend on this issue and he be absolutely right . there be a danger with over - zealous regulation that people be focus more on cost than on performance . like he , I want to resolve the issue . the Chancellor talk about the creative industry but then announce only that he would look at improve film and high - end tv tax credit . the cultural tax relief continue to help our orchestra , theatre , museum and gallery to survive , and they protect job . at the 2023 budget , he extend the uplifted rate of relief until March 2024 , after which it will taper , but sadly he also introduce change to limit what cultural organisation can claim for . orchestra tax relief be a critical source of income ; without it , some orchestra say they could fold , with musician lose their job . will he look not just at film and high - end tv tax credit but at all the cultural tax relief and how they can continue to support job in our creative industry ? have only just deliver the autumn statement I do not want to pre - empt what might be in the spring Budget , but there will be another fiscal event before the end of the financial year in which all these thing will be look at . with respect to orchestra , which be fantastically important to our cultural landscape , I will just say that the typical person play in an orchestra will get a £ 450 increase in post - tax pay next year , and that will help they greatly . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his statement , which will make a significant difference to investment level , employment and living cost , recognise that it be all in the context of the cost of covid and the energy shock bring about by the conflict in Ukraine — that be something we often forget . may I pass on to he the appreciation of the beer and pub sector ? the freeze in duty and continuation of the reduction in business rate be exactly what the sector ask for , and it be an early Christmas present to the many of we who want to celebrate in great style as we approach the festive season . will my right hon . friend please continue to engage with those in the sector and listen to what they have to say , so that they can share their investment ambition ? I commit to my right hon . friend that I will not just continue to engage with the sector , but continue to enjoy the odd glass of Penderyn , which be my favourite whisky . can the Chancellor confirm that , after today ' s tax cut , we will still have the high tax burden for 70 year — up £ 4 , 000 per household on pre - pandemic level — when we go into the next general election ? what I can confirm be that after today ' s measure we will have the low income tax burden for someone on average pay in the G7 — low than Japan , America , France , Germany , Italy and Canada . our economy be grow rather than recede due to investment , innovation and million of hard - work individual across the country , as well as a Government who have focus on tackle inflation . do the Chancellor agree that , on this side of the House , we get it that no country can spend its way to prosperity ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . high inflation be destabilising for an economy : it stop business invest , it stop family spend , and it cause misery to people who see the cost of their weekly shop go through the roof . that be why it have be our no . 1 priority . it would be great if it be labour ' s , too . it be frankly embarrassing that the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have spend this afternoon celebrate inflation stay 2 % above target , while family in Selby and Ainsty face 10 % food inflation every time they use the supermarket . what message do the Chancellor think his celebration send to those hard - work family ? it be not celebrate that have halve inflation from 11 . 1 % a year ago ; it be hard work and difficult decision , which unfortunately be mainly oppose by Labour . I commend the Chancellor for his statement , which deliver for the people of Blackpool . five thousand of my constituent will benefit from a boost to the national living wage and 12 , 000 pensioner in my constituency will be £ 900 per year well off , while those in work will be £ 450 well off as a result of the cut to national insurance . do he agree that this be only possible because of the difficult long - term decision that this Government have take — an approach that stand in stark contrast to the tax , borrowing and spending offer by the Opposition ? the shadow Chancellor can not hear these thing too many time . she love copy and paste our policy , and there be another that she could merrily get copying and pasting . here be the reason why my hon . friend be absolutely right — [ interruption . ] let I tell the shadow Chancellor the reason — it be very straightforward . we have an economic crisis thank to the energy shock and the pandemic ; Labour have an economic crisis because of what happen in the financial market . the difference be that we take tough decision to bring back fiscal responsibility and they duck every single one . the big disparity in local housing allowance come from the geography of broad rental market area . in York , give the way these thing be calculate , LHA be £ 650 but there be a £ 983 cost on top of that for a property . it be not work , so will the Chancellor review the BRMA ? I be happy to discuss that matter with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . I recognise that the hon . Lady have campaign on the issue sincerely for some time . I will say , though , that the decision to increase local housing allowance to the 30th percentile will help 1 . 6 million family with an extra £ 800 . I hope she recognise that that will make a difference . from tax cut for 27 million worker to incentive for business to grow , support for pensioner and a continued lifeline for our great british pub and pint , I warmly welcome the good start that my right hon . friend have make on reduce the tax burden as we recover from the pandemic and the energy shock . I thank he in particular for the recognition he have show to the self - employ , not just by reform class 2 and class 4 national insurance contribution to make they fair , but by send the signal that , just as the self - employ be an integral part of our recovery from the time the Labour party crash the economy when they be last in government , we now need as many people as possible to take the step to start their own enterprise and help this country grow . I could not agree more with my hon . friend . the whole purpose of our approach be to make it easy for people who be prepared to take risk to work hard , and no one exemplify those value well than the self - employ . I thank he for be one of this country ' s great defender of the great british pint . it really be a scandal that disabled people be be punish yet again for this Government ' s economic failure , with today ' s announcement of more cruel and callous cut , and the announcement that they will be force to work from home . evidence show that sanction do not incentivise people to work but be harmful and counterproductive . the Chancellor ' s plan will only far erode the social security safety net , follow 13 year of austerity , the war wage against disabled people and the hostile environment . do he not understand that his plan will only punish disabled people , push they far away from the labour market and lead to poor health outcome ? with the great respect to the hon . Lady , let I say that we introduce a plan to help disabled people to get back into work , as many of they say they would like to do , and in just four year it have get 1 . 4 million disabled people back into job . I welcome an autumn statement from the Chancellor that cut taxis , invest in growth , seek to shrink the size of the state and reform welfare . it will go down well with the vast majority of my constituent who vote for a Conservative Government in 2019 , and I very much welcome it too . I particularly thank he for his continue commitment to our east midland investment zone and freeport , where he have listen to stakeholder in extend the time for and add more investment to our major growth plan . will he continue to work with we in the region to ensure that , alongside our development company and our new east midland combined authority , we be able to properly harness these tool to deliver an amazing regional growth strategy and all the growth and investment that he want to see ? I thank my hon . friend for his role in the transformation of the east midland , through his other responsibility in the council there . level up will work only if we harness the enterprise and idea of local civic leader , and he be a fantastic example of that . today be Equal Pay Day , which mean , because of the gender pay gap , it be the day on which woman , base on their average earning , stop be pay compare with man , who continue to be pay to the end of the year . more concern be the pension gap , which be 35 % and mean female pensioner stop be pay on 26 August . that be often because old woman have choose , and sacrifice their earn potential , to care for love one . when will the Government consider reform carer ' s allowance , which be currently an active disincentive to carer go into work ? when we will start address this cliff edge , rather than make it short and sharp ? I be always happy to engage with any hon . member if they have concern about the way the benefit system operate in term of disincentivise people who would like to work but can not do so . care responsibility be an area that she have raise and I be happy to engage with she on that outside this House . cumulatively , Manchester City Council ' s and Trafford Council ' s cut since 2010 have be £ 443 million and £ 288 million respectively . the Local Government Association say that the funding gap will be £ 4 billion in the next two year . be there anything in this statement that will stop the continue crumbling of our local service ? the hon . Gentleman be omit the fact that in the autumn statement a year ago , when I be have to make big cut in public spending go forward , I find an increase of £ 4 . 7 billion from next year for adult social care , which will make an enormous difference to every council in the country . far to the Chancellor ' s answer on Northern Ireland and Barnett consequential , he will be aware that Northern Ireland be face an unprecedented budget crisis . will he therefore confirm that he be open to discussion on a fiscal floor and an invest - to - save transformation package for any potential restore power sharing Executive ? the UK Government will continue to do everything we can to support the restoration of power sharing in the Province . all I will say be that the Treasury be actively involve in all those discussion . in recognition of the impact of electricity pylon development on property , the Chancellor announce compensation of £ 1 , 000 per property per year for 10 year . do the policy apply in Wales ? if it do not , will the Welsh Government receive funding for development where they have competence , such as the one in the Tywi valley in my constituency ? regardless of that , he know that the fall in property value will be far more than the compensation , so would it not be well to remove detriment by cable ploughing , at a comparative cost to traditional pylon development ? my understanding be that this will apply to Wales in exactly the same way as it apply to the rest of the UK . as for how we do this , we need to work out the most sensible , proportionate and balanced way of solve the problem of have to double our electricity generation between now and 2050 . we be go to have to do thing differently as a result . we be in the bad cost of living crisis that we have ever see . the key takeaway from the just four measure the Chancellor announce to tackle the crisis be not invest in deprive community , ensure the rich pay their fair share or spread economic growth across the whole country , but a commitment to stop a pint get more expensive . just what be that suppose to do for my constituent , who face crippling mortgage payment , who be pay 30 % more for food , whose wage be stagnate and whose home have be unaffordable to heat ? I think the hon . Gentleman have look at the statement selectively , because our support for people struggle with cost of living pressure have rise , as a result of my decision , to £ 104 billion . let I just go through this : pensioner be go to get an increase next year that be three time the rate of inflation ; people on benefit be go to get an increase in their benefit that be double inflation ; people who be rent and on low income be go to see an £ 800 increase , on average , through the local housing allowance ; and anyone on the low legally payable wage , where they be work full - time , could see an extra £ 1 , 800 from increase in the national living wage . as a so - call " prudent Chancellor " , he cancel hs2 to Manchester because of the spiral cost of that project . yet despite the cost of the like of Hinkley Point C rise from £ 18 billion to £ 33 billion , and the fact that there be no successful EPR — european pressurised reactor — project in the world , he have today confirm yet again a blank cheque for the nuclear industry . Sizewell C be likely to cost £ 40 billion and he have a taxpayer 20 % stake in it . if it be good enough for HS2 , why do he not scrap Sizewell C and save we from that nuclear financial disaster ? because if we want to get to net zero , we be go to have to have more renewable energy and , unfortunately for the hon . Gentleman and for I , there be day when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow . we have the low investment in the G7 ; on the Government ' s own figure , it have fall far and far . currently , public sector investment be schedule to fall by £ 14 billion in real term over the next five year . without serious investment in public service , we can not hope to improve productivity , which the Chancellor speak about today . we can not just demand that people go back to work , and work hard and hard to compensate for this . we need £ 10 billion to match the OECD ' s average public investment annual spend as a share of GDP . I would like to hear from the Chancellor why he have not take the opportunity today to align ourselves with the rest of the G7 ? let I gently remind the hon . Gentleman that business investment have grow by more since 2010 than it grow under the Labour Government ; we have the second high growth in the G7 , with our fast than any country ' s except America . the unionised manufacturing base of my constituency have long be diminish , have be replace not by technology , innovation and good decent , modern job , but by fast fashion , sweatshop and unscrupulous employer . this be all exploit by brand like Boohoo and retailer who be in a race to the bottom for ever - increase profit , all while their supply chain fail to pay the minimum wage . what action will be take to regulate to ensure that brand and retailer be hold to account for the sustainable outcome of their product in their supply chain and for wage justice for the people who make their good ? what action will be take to tackle those british brand and retailer who threaten to seek cheap labour overseas in order to avoid pay the new minimum wage that the Chancellor have just announce ? if the hon . Lady have any example of people not pay the national living wage who be legally oblige to do so , she should tell the authority and we will sort it out . I just say to she that we have just overtake France to become the eighth large manufacturer in the world . we be make progress in the right direction , and the measure announce today will mean that we go even far . the prize for perseverance go to Deidre Brock . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Chancellor announce £ 960 million for a new green industry growth accelerator focus on offshore wind ; electricity network ; nuclear ; carbon capture , usage and storage ; and hydrogen . but there be no mention of reliable , clean , cheap energy source such as tidal or pump storage hydro . why not ? we be always open to invest in new technology , and in this country we be extremely good at develop they . we will continue to look at all new opportunity , include thing like tidal . Provisional Collection of Taxes Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 51 ( 2 ) ) , that , pursuant to section 5 of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 , provisional statutory effect shall be give to the follow motion : — rate of tobacco product duty ( motion no . 1 ) . — ( Jeremy Hunt . ) question agree to . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during Prime Minister ' s question today , I ask the Prime Minister why 34 % of child in my constituency live in poverty . before the Prime Minister answer , the Home Secretary choose to add his pennyworth . I have contact his office , advise he of my plan to name he , but sadly he have choose not to be in the Chamber . he be see and hear to say , " because it ' s a shithole . " I know he be deny be the culprit , but the audio be clear and have be check and check and check again . there be no doubt that these comment shame the Home Secretary , this rotten Government and the Tory party . he be clearly unfit for his high office . Madam Deputy Speaker , will you advise I how I can secure an apology from the Home Secretary at the Dispatch Box for his appalling insult and foul language ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for have give I notice that he intend to raise this point of order , and I be pleased to note that he have inform the Home Secretary of his intention to raise the matter . my understanding be that Mr Speaker do not hear any remark of the kind from the Chair at the time when the hon . Gentleman be ask his question of the Prime Minister , and I understand that the allege word be not actually use . although I appreciate what the hon . Gentleman say , I think we all know that it be very difficult in the noisy atmosphere of Prime Minister ' s question to discern exactly what someone say , so I can make no judgment from the Chair as to what be or be not say — but I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . I remind all hon . member of the need for good temper and moderation in the language they use in this Chamber , and that the rule of decency should be observe , in particular when refer to other hon . member , and to the constituent and constituency that they represent . the hon . Gentleman ask specifically how he can secure an apology . I be quite sure that , the Member in question be an honourable gentleman , if an apology be necessary , it will be issue to the hon . Gentleman , but I can make no judgment one way or the other . the hon . Gentleman have make his point . Autumn Statement Resolutions we now come to motion no . 1 on the resolution paper . it be on this motion that the debate will take place today and on succeed day . the question on this motion and on the remain motion will be put at the end of the debate on the autumn statement on Monday 27 November . rate of tobacco product duty I beg to move , that — ( 1 ) in Schedule 1 to the Tobacco Products Duty Act 1979 ( table of rate of tobacco product duty ) , for the Table substitute — " table 1 cigarette an amount equal to the high of — 16 . 5 % of the retail price plus £ 316 . 70 per thousand cigarette , or £ 422 . 80 per thousand cigarette . 2 cigar £ 395 . 03 per kilogram 3 hand - roll tobacco £ 412 . 32 per kilogram 4 other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco £ 173 . 68 per kilogram 5 Tobacco for heat £ 325 . 53 per kilogram " . ( 2 ) in consequence of the provision make by paragraph ( 1 ) , in Schedule 2 to the Travellers ' allowance order 1994 ( which provide in certain circumstance for a simplified calculation of excise duty on good bring into Great Britain ) — ( a ) in the entry relate to cigarette , for " £ 393 . 45 " substitute " £ 422 . 80 " , ( b ) in the entry relate to hand roll tobacco , for " £ 351 . 03 " substitute " £ 412 . 32 " , ( c ) in the entry relate to other smoking tobacco and chew tobacco , for " £ 161 . 62 " substitute " £ 173 . 68 " , ( d ) in the entry relate to cigar , for " £ 367 . 61 " substitute " £ 395 . 03 " , ( e ) in the entry relate to cigarillos , for " £ 367 . 61 " substitute " £ 395 . 03 " , and ( f ) in the entry relate to tobacco for heating , for " £ 90 . 88 " substitute " £ 97 . 66 " . ( 3 ) the amendment make by this Resolution come into force at 6 pm on 22 November 2023 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . as a country , we be in a very different position from the one we be in a year ago . back then , the Office for Budget Responsibility and the Bank of England be predict a recession , but we have have growth . debt be predict to rise to almost 100 % of gdp by the end of the forecast , but headline debt be now predict to be more than 5 % low . rather than fall , average real income have rise . none of that happen by accident . it happen because of the difficult decision we have make , which have turn the economy around . we have learn the lesson of what happen a year ago , but the opposition have not . today , we set out a plan for the economy that will grow our potential , reduce debt and reduce taxis , yet all Labour want to do be reverse this progress by borrow £ 28 billion . it be the same old Labour party . let I begin with what we have achieve . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? let I make some progress . it have be a difficult few year for all family , up and down this country . we have have to tackle a once in a lifetime global pandemic and another period of global turmoil , cause by Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine and the pressure that put on energy price , drive inflation around the world . when the Prime Minister take office , inflation be at 11 . 1 % , but because of the difficult decision take by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the Bank of England , inflation be now down to 4 . 6 % — a promise deliver . the OBR say that headline inflation will fall to 2 . 8 % by the end of 2024 and we will therefore reach our 2 % target by the middle of 2025 , something I be sure that the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) be about to welcome . I welcome the hon . Lady to her new post . I hope she have an enjoyable time at the Treasury , as I do when I be there . will she confirm that figure show that this Parliament be the high tax - raise Parliament since record begin , in all our history , even after today ' s statement ? I be sure the hon . Lady will be interested to know that taxis for the average worker have go down by £ 1 , 000 . however , those on high income have have to pay more , which I be sure she will agree be the right approach in a difficult period . on growth , in 2010 we be face the bad recession since the second world war , but this Conservative Government have turn thing around . since 2010 , we have grow our economy fast than many in the G7 , include France , Germany , Italy , Spain and Japan . follow the pandemic and the energy crisis , which be predict to take we into recession , the economy have recover more quickly than previously think and be now 1 . 8 % large than its pre - pandemic size , grow fast than Germany . look ahead , the economy will continue to grow , boost by 0 . 5 % through the measure take in the autumn statement and spring Budget . perhaps most critically of all , debt be down . I know the member on the Opposition Front Bench be concerned about that , but reduce debt and borrowing be essential to control inflation , keep mortgage rate down and taxis low . let I be clear : labour ' s plan would send we all the way back to square one . labour ' s inflationary £ 28 billion borrowing commitment will drive up inflation , cause interest rate to spiral and hammer family up and down the country . that be a fundamental difference between this Government and the opposition . by contrast , look at what my right hon . friend the Chancellor have achieve . before he take the difficult decision in last year ' s autumn statement , headline debt be predict to rise to 99 . 6 % of gdp by the end of the forecast . labour ' s approach would see that number rise but , in contrast , our approach have see debt predict to be 5 . 5 percentage point low as a proportion of gdp by the end of the forecast . we will therefore meet our fiscal rule to have underlie debt fall as a percentage of gdp in the final year of the forecast , with double the headroom compare to the OBR ' s March forecast . that headroom allow we to take the action we be propose in the autumn statement , because the job be not yet do . debt and inflation be head the right way , but we must keep push . while growth be well than it could be , it be not as high as it should be . our solution be not simply to borrow more , as the Labour party would , but to back british business and invest in area that will create growth , drive by our value : live within our mean , protect the poor and rewarding work . we be attract an extra £ 20 billion a year from business investment , reduce taxis on work people and increase the national living wage to give worker £ 1 , 800 year on average , and we be freeze alcohol duty until August next year . our announcement to make full expense permanent mean that we now have not just the low headline corporation tax rate in the G7 , but the most generous capital allowance , too . for every £ 1 million that a company invest , it will get £ 250 , 000 off its tax bill at the end of the year . this will make a huge difference to investment , as more than 200 business leader and industry body across the country have point out . we can do this only because — in case anybody be in any doubt — this Conservative Government have more than halve inflation , have meet our borrowing rule three year early and be see our debt lower every single year . meanwhile , our small and medium - sized business , which account for more than 99 % of private business in the country , remain the backbone of the economy . our business rate support save the average independent shop more than £ 20 , 000 . we continue to back those business by extend the 75 % business rate discount for retail , hospitality and leisure business for another year , and by tackle late payment . we be reform our welfare system , so that it support those who can not work and help those who can find work . the list do not end there . with this hard - earn fiscal headroom now secure , we have a final measure : to implement a tax cut for 27 million employ people , worth an average of £ 450 per year ; and to simplify and cut taxis for nearly 2 million self - employ people , while protect the interest of those on the low pay by save self - employ people an average of £ 350 a year from April . we have always say that , when it be responsible to do so , we will cut taxis , and , because we keep our word , we be cut the main rate of employee national insurance from 12 % to 10 % . that make somebody on the average salary of £ 35 , 000 more than £ 450 well off , which be something that hon . member will welcome . as we want people to see that benefit on their payslip soon , we will immediately introduce legislation to bring in this new rate from 6 January . this be the big cut to employee and self - employ tax ever , and the big tax cut implement since 1988 . these measure , however , be not by chance . this be what happen when we take tough decision early , when we take responsibility for those decision and when we deliver on they in good time and on budget , as the Prime Minister say we would . thing have be really tough , but the economy be on the right track and the future be grow bright . we have make : tax cut for big business to drive investment ; tax cut for small business to drive growth ; tax cut for self - employ people to reward hard work ; and tax cut for 27 million work people who make our country what it be . as we debate these measure in the next few day , I leave member with a few reflection . we have halve inflation and we have avoid recession , but growth be not achieve by burn our business or our people , as the Labour party would have we believe . instead , in this autumn statement we have — and let I repeat this — deliver the big ever cut to employee and self - employ tax ; the big tax cut since 1988 . you ' ve say that already . I will say it lot of time , believe I . this Conservative Government be the party of business . this Conservative Government be the party of worker . this Conservative Government be the party of work people . the Government have a plan to keep deliver , and it be present to this country and to this House in today ' s autumn statement . it be a plan that permanently increase the size of the economy , that back Britain and Britain ' s business , that reward work and improve pay and that will deliver growth in every part of this United Kingdom . I call the Opposition spokesman . today , the Chancellor confirm what the british people already know — that there be nothing the Conservatives can say or do to hide their 13 year of failure . Government Members may have be pat each other on the back during the Chancellor ' s statement , but the british people will not be celebrate . after everything that we have hear today : taxis will still be at their high during peacetime ; inflation be forecast to be high in the year ahead than it be accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s forecast in March ; mortgage payment will still be rise for million as their deal end ; and after 13 year of low growth , we be still on a path of decline , with economic growth forecast for next year slash by more than half . nothing that the Conservatives have say today will overcome the damage that they have do over the past 13 year . nothing that they have say will overcome the cost of living crisis that family across the country be face . household income will still be 3 . 5 % low next year in real term than before the pandemic , the big hit to living standard on record . inflation have be upgrade in every year of the forecast period , with price now set to be 7 % high at the end of the forecast period than the OBR forecast they to be in March . the truth be that work people be bad off under this Conservative Government . I be sure the Chancellor will want people to focus on his announcement of a cut in the main rate of employee national insurance , but , frankly , come after 25 tax rise in this Parliament alone , it be insulting to suggest that the british people will be fool . under the Conservatives , the tax burden be set to increase by £ 4 , 300 per household . let we not forget , that , just two year ago , the Chancellor and the now Chief Secretary to the Treasury walk through the Division Lobby to put national insurance up . they may wish to forget that , but the british people will not . it be as if the Tories have nick your car , but expect you to be grateful when they pay for your bus fare home . after 13 year of low growth , and with taxis already at their high level in more than 70 year , the british people will see straight through this Government ' s desperate attempt to woo they . it have be rumour that the Government be plan to cut inheritance tax in this statement . of course , people want to be able to pass on what they have work hard for to their child , but in the middle of a cost of living crisis , when family face rise in mortgage cost , in price across the board , and in NHS waiting list , we simply could not understand how the Conservatives see that tax cut for the wealthy 4 % as a priority . the truth be that this would have be the wrong tax cut — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it appropriate for the Opposition spokesman to be talk about measure that be actually not announce today ? that be a perfectly reasonable point of order and I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise it . I be listen carefully to the hon . Gentleman ' s speech and have begin to think to myself , " that ' s strange . the hon . Gentleman be address a point that be not in the Chancellor ' s statement . " however , I have not stop he , because — [ interruption . ] I do not need any help , thank you very much . I have not stop the hon . gentleman because this be a very wide - range debate , and I have make the assumption that he be use an example of something that the Government decide not to do . possibly he be about to state his agreement with the Government , or something along those line . I be wait to hear what he have to say . thank you very much for your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker . in fact , I be about to say that we welcome the fact that the Government appear to have finally realise that it would have be the wrong tax cut at the wrong time . I be sorry that it make the hon . Lady so uncomfortable to talk about this , because , frankly , it speak volume about this Government ' s instinct that they entertain that plan for so long . my central point be that Government should not be waste time daydream about an inheritance tax cut . with inflation still double the Bank of England ' s target , they should be resolutely focus on what they can do now to tackle the cost of living crisis . the truth be that anything they offer now be far too little , far too late . the Conservatives simply can not tackle the cost of living crisis that their fingerprint be all over . ten year ago , the Conservatives slash energy efficiency programme , after which insulation rate plummet by 92 % . as a result , million of household across the country have have to pay energy bill £ 500 a year great than they should be . last year , the Conservatives ' utterly reckless approach to the economy set off market chaos and interest rate rise . the Bank of England have say that those re - mortgaging will see their monthly payment rise by £ 220 , and 1 . 5 million family will be hit by this Tory mortgage penalty next year . all our constituent who pay mortgage be concerned about the increase in rate . do the hon . member hear the Governor of the Bank of England accept yesterday , as he have in early Treasury Committee session , that it be the Bank of England take independent decision to tackle inflation that have lead to those increase ? the hon . Member be wrong to label they " Tory " mortgage increase . the opposition accept the independence of the Bank of England , unlike some Government Members , but frankly that be a fairly shameless attempt by the hon . member to distance herself from what the Government do to the economy last year in their disastrous mini - Budget . the british people will not forget , as they be still pay the price . my hon . friend be make some important point . do he agree that , if it be the decision of the Bank of England that have halve inflation , as the opposition think , the Government can not go around claim credit for it ? as always , my right hon . friend make an important point . the Government be try to have it both way . when inflation go up , it be someone else ' s fault . when it come down , they claim the credit . I think that we can trust the british people to see through whatever way they try to distort the truth . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will make some progress . the truth be that the Conservatives ' fingerprint be all over the cost of living crisis , and it would be ludicrous for anyone to expect the prime suspect to be ask to solve the crime . it be clear that we can not trust the Government with the cost of living crisis . it be also clear that we can not trust they with our money . no wonder they want to run from their record in office when they have waste taxpayer ' money so badly . the level of fraud and waste on their watch make the 25 tax rise over this Parliament all the more galling , and even hard for hard - press family to stomach . from the £ 7 . 2 billion of public money that be lose on fraud during the pandemic to the £ 50 million spend on a new helicopter for the Prime Minister to make the short trip that he be so fond of , it be clear that the Conservatives be incapable of spend public money wisely . Labour will set up an office of value for money as part of our pledge to put fiscal and economic responsibility at the heart of our approach if we win the next election . on that foundation , we will get the economy grow after 13 year of stagnation , as we know that economic growth be the key to make people across Britain well off . have the UK economy grow since 2010 at the same rate that it do under Labour in the year before , it would be £ 150 billion big today — £ 5 , 000 more for every household , every year . that be why Labour ' s plan to provide the stability , certainty and critical infrastructure improvement that business value so greatly be so important . our new fiscal lock , which the Conservatives vote against last week , will strengthen the Office for Budget Responsibility , help to ensure that the disastrous mini - budget of this time last year could never happen again . our new road map for business taxation will give business from the UK and around the world the certainty and predictability that they need to invest in Britain . that need for certainty have be behind our call to make full expensing permanent , which the Government have finally announce — though with this government , business may well be leave wonder how long their late position will last . while small business and the retail , hospitality and leisure industry will no doubt welcome any further help with business rate , again the Government have fail to provide the fundamental reform promise at the general election . where the Conservatives have fail , Labour will deliver . our proposal to overhaul the planning system will fast - track the decision that we need to deliver clean energy , critical infrastructure , and the factory and workplace of the future . our national wealth fund will provide catalytic public investment to leverage three time as much private sector investment into job and industry across our country . our approach will be one of a pro - business , pro - worker Government , ready to grow Britain ' s economy and make work people well off . government in other country around the world know that business want their support in grow new industry and make the transition to a low - carbon economy . as the chief executive of the UK Sustainable Investment and Finance Association say just yesterday , the Chancellor need to " urgently set out the UK ' s overdue response to the " US approach " and similar measure in other jurisdiction , such as the EU , Canada and Japan " . the truth be that through their lack of idea , lack of ambition , and lack of the industrial strategy that we need , the Government be hold british business back . minister be make Britain the outlier , while the government of similar nation around the world be support their national industry to attract job and investment . the Conservatives can not deliver what our economy need , and people and business across Britain know that it be time for a change . even the Prime Minister have concede that our country need change . maybe that be why he still have misplace confidence in the Conservatives : he think that because they have change their Cabinet so much and so often , they must be on to a good thing . it be true that their record on change who be sit around the Cabinet table be remarkable . to have have five Prime Ministers , seven chancellor , and an astonishing 16 Housing Ministers be noteworthy — but not , of course , for the right reason . the problem for the Conservatives be that whatever they try to do now , they know , and the british people know , that they can not be the change that we need . nothing can compensate for the damage that they have already do . what on earth will they put on their election leaflet , I wonder ? will they say , " we may have increase taxis 25 time , but thing will be different now — honest ! " or will they say , " Don ' t worry — 0 % growth be actually well than what it could have be . " ? maybe they will play it straight with something like : " we may have fail for 13 year , but we ' d like another chance . " we all know that that simply will not wash . the Conservatives be out of touch and , increasingly , out of time . after 13 year , work people have have enough of pay high taxis , enough of see their wage stagnate , enough of their public service fall apart , and enough of Britain ' s economy fall behind . the change that our country need can only come from our change Labour party — one that be ready to serve , ready to get the economy grow , and ready to make people across Britain well off . the truth be that people in our country should be give the chance to get Britain its future back . that be why a general election can not come soon enough . what a difference a year have make to this country ' s finance and to the economy . last year , our inflation rate be 11 . 1 % ; it be now down to 4 . 6 % . it be still too high , but that be enormous progress , thank to the independent Bank of England and the decision take in this Chamber a year ago to manage the public finance prudently , in a way that would not increase inflation . we need to reflect on the progress that we have make in our economy . from listen to the — I be not go to use unparliamentary language — speech of the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , we would not think that anything have change from a year ago . thing have change enormously . this time last year , our economy be reel from the energy shock cause by Putin ' s evil invasion of Ukraine . it be thank to the help give through the energy price cap that household be able to get through last winter . I do not need to remind the House how serious inflation be for the poor household . it be the bad tax on our economy , our business , and people ' s budget . it be a truly evil problem , and it be right that it have be the no . 1 focus of the Prime Minister and the Government this year . clearly , with inflation at 4 . 6 % there be still more to do . yesterday , the Treasury Committee hear from the Governor of the Bank of England . the Bank of England be forecast that we will get to a 2 % handle , probably by the end of next year . that be in line with what the Office for Budget Responsibility be say . clearly , there be still risk to the upside . energy price continue to be volatile , but the Governor tell our Committee yesterday that it be the inflation - bust hike in rate that have generate the increase payment that our constituent be face on their mortgage . therefore , when the hon . member for Ealing North say that these be Tory mortgage hike , that be just throw mud and try to make it stick . it will not stick , however , because I be hopeful that rate be now high enough to bring inflation back down under control . in the analogy the Bank of England use , we have march to the top of table mountain and be now walk across the top of the mountain , and the market be now forecast that the next rate change will be a decrease . do the hon . Lady remember the Budget of just over a year ago , which crash the economy , send interest rate spiral and send mortgage rate up ? we must not forget that there be an interest rate premium in the UK over much of the rest of the western world , and that be forecast to remain for year to come because , sadly , it be down to the long - term mismanagement of the UK economy , which the Tory Government must take responsibility for . I be very glad the right hon . Gentleman make that intervention because it allow I to repeat the point of my argument . of course I remember what happen , and we all see it ; it be thank to the new Prime Minister and the measure that the Chancellor take this time last year that those effect have be work through . we can see the progress not only in reduced inflation but in the OBR ' s increase its growth expectation — a year ago it be expect a recession and now it be forecast growth . the right hon . Gentleman make my point : we have hear from the Governor , on the record , that those effect have dissipate and that the year have make all the difference . do my hon . friend reflect , as I do , that the US federal rate be currently very similar to our own interest rate ? can Opposition member explain what be the effect on the US economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . central bank around the world have lesson to learn from this recent bout of inflation , but I be comfort by the evidence we get yesterday from the Governor , which , while acknowledge there be still risk to the upside , show that the world be on a trajectory of have deal with this . I be grateful to the hon . Lady and the hon . member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) because they have make key point . we have hear lot today about growth , but the US have grow at an average rate of about 1 % more than we over the last decade , and forecast for its growth for the year to come be also high . we need to get real about what growth look like and what sustainable economic growth be , but the fact remain that UK interest rate be above those in the European Union and have remain above those of the western world for most of the last decade , and will remain above those of the rest of the world for many year to come . the right hon . Gentleman might think the UK should join the euro , but I shall fight strongly against he on that campaign . I want to return to the theme of what a difference a year have make in term of the public finance . it be remarkable to see how the priority in the autumn statement be be deliver . first , that be see in reduce debt , something all on this side of the House be keen on otherwise we be just pass on the cost to our child and grandchild . last year ' s forecast be 94 . 6 % , which still feel uncomfortably high to I , and that be why I welcome that in today ' s autumn statement debt be fall to 92 . 7 % in the same year . I encourage the Chancellor to keep on move in that direction . the challenge now be to support growth , and non - inflationary growth above all . the Chancellor announce 110 measure . I have go through the small print of the documentation , and I do not think I have get to the bottom of all 110 of they yet , but I hope we shall do so when we take evidence from he , the OBR and independent economist next week . I welcome that the OBR be revise growth up this year , however , and that the measure announce in the statement be take through the lens of make sure inflation continue to decline . cut tax be also an important priority because it reward hard work , and it be good that earning be again grow fast than inflation , which mean household up and down the country be see disposable income rise once again . we all know that work be the good route out of poverty . I can not stress how important the announcement on the national living wage be , because it mean that those work full time on the national living wage now have an income of over £ 22 , 000 , take they over the poverty line . with so many vacancy in our economy , that will give more people the opportunity to work their way out of poverty . so I thank the Chancellor for that reform , and for the fact that now the income of the low pay come predominantly from work , whereas in 2010 the income of those on the low pay be primarily from welfare . we can be proud of that real shift . I be pleased to hear measure about the grid in the autumn statement . build sustainable domestic energy will require improve our grid , and build more renewable and new nuclear and domestic oil and gas . I be very pleased to see the measure back british business as well , because ultimately it be british business that will help our country grow and tackle the important productivity challenge and deliver more job and prosperity for the british people . I look forward to encourage the Chancellor to think about simplify even more . there be some simplification that I welcome in today ' s autumn statement , particularly in term of national insurance for the self - employ . I look forward to see the detail of the measure that will help our constituent invest their saving and get well reward for their pension by be able to access advice more easily . measure the Chancellor can take in term of the advice guidance boundary will help enormously . I welcome , too , the funding for a world class education . school in my constituency will welcome that record level of per pupil funding in real term . in conclusion , I be delighted to see many of these measure and look forward to scrutinise more of they in detail , and I be particularly pleased that the Chancellor do not heed the opposition ' s advice to borrow £ 28 billion more every year . I call Scottish National party spokesman Drew Hendry . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) , the Chair of the Treasury Committee , which I have recently join . I shall concentrate on the choice the Chancellor and his Government have make . government be about choice ; it be about choose priority and who to help , and choose the future we want to create . today the Chancellor choose his priority , and he choose to ignore the million struggle with the cost of living crisis . the OBR have confirm this afternoon that the UK be still on course for the large reduction in living standard since the 1950 . of all those struggle or who can not pay their bill or be worried about heat their home , the decision today be pretty much to ignore they . the Chancellor be either offer no comfort or cold comfort . the BMJ warn last month that the cost of live crisis " will cut life short " . the Chancellor ' s choice mean the Government be say to million of people , " we don ' t care . " the Chancellor could have look at vat cut , especially in tourism and hospitality , to boost spending and low inflation . he could have take action to reduce the level of the energy price cap or introduce an energy social tariff ; he have not do so . the national insurance measure announce today will not make up for the inflationary price increase in mortgage , rent and food and energy bill , which will still be high than last year . I misspoke early when I say that the UK be still pay the high tax for seven year ; it be pay the high tax for 70 year . no action today on people ' s housing cost , no action on food price , no action on energy cost , but never mind — at least banker ’ bonus be now unlimited . let we start with food cost . food price in the UK be still climb at an alarming rate and the trend of increase cost remain . the UK ' s food price inflation be double that of Ireland and Estonia , for example . the Centre for Inclusive Trade Policy note Brexit ' s role in increase UK import price by 11 % and analysis by the London School of Economics early this year show that the UK have the high food price inflation in the industrialise world . it remain sky - high . the Chancellor ' s inaction on food price be glare . as people worry at the checkout , company such as Marks & Spencer be report record profit on food sale . consumer right organisation which ? have express concern over dodgy pricing and loyalty card practice , yet the Government remain silent on discuss food bill with supermarket . there be nothing from Labour either ; when Labour go shopping at Sainsbury ' s , it be for million in donation . the SNP be leave to fight for family over food cost . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation paint a grim picture of the impact of those inflate cost , with many struggle to afford basic food item . the foundation ' s chief economist emphasise the severity of the situation for low - income household , with essential good unaffordable for million . that unaffordability be creep upwards , with those who previously see themselves as relatively comfortable now also feel the squeeze . the Chancellor have a choice . the Government could have heed the Bank of England ' s warning about skyrocket food inflation and they do not do so . France get company to commit to freeze or cut price on 5 , 000 everyday product . in Canada , the five large grocery chain make an initial commitment to help to stabilise food price and say that that be just the beginning of their work . for six month , the Greek Government cover 10 % of food expense for household , fund by a windfall tax on two oil refinery . here in the UK , we have the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s stark warning that million can not afford basic food item . food bank use have grow a further 10 % , accord to the Trussell Trust , and donation to food bank , usually collect at supermarket , be also dramatically down . we have a situation where not only do more people need food , but few people have the spare money to donate food . unlike the Chancellor , people use food bank do not have choice . the Chancellor could have make some choice on energy cost this winter . before his speech today , one in four social housing household have already reduce their heating to save cost . he decide not to reinstate the energy bill rebate . it be not enough . before his speech today , energy bill still remain double what they be in 2021 , and Cornwall Insight predict that energy price will remain high until the 2030 . where do the Chancellor think folk be get the money from ? it be not come from any long - term measure today — there be no social tariff , he have not decouple gas price from renewable , and the SNP ' s call for the reinstatement of the £ 400 energy bill rebate , which would have go a long way to help in the short term , have be ignore . the Chancellor could have choose to act on that and he choose not to . he choose not to help the two third of people who live in a household where someone be suffer from a pre - exist health condition or be disabled and worried about be cold this winter . he should have commit to increase working - age benefit in line with inflation next year as well and legislate for an essential guarantee , give basic necessity to those who need they most . instead , as we hear , he intend to punish the sick . People who be sick and unable to work be already regularly be refer to work coach . I have have constituent of mine , who be list as have cancer or indeed as be terminally ill , be tell to report to a work coach . this be just another step far to the right for the nasty party . the Chancellor choose not to help the more than one third of household with child under five , the pregnant , or people over 65 with pre - exist health condition who think they will not or may not be able to afford to put the heating on at all this winter . he choose not to help the million of people already struggle with mount energy debt . Citizens Advice expect that the number of people unable to top up their prepayment meter will be nearly half as high again as it be in 2022 . meanwhile , National Energy Action find that more than one third of adult be expect to struggle to afford to pay their heating bill this winter . the Chancellor do not even listen to the plea of charity . Ofgem have report that energy debt have reach £ 2 . 6 billion — its high level ever . a quarter of people be now behind on at least one bill , and we be not even in the heart of winter . do anybody think that that figure be go to be low come January ? energy bill and council tax arrear be the most commonly encounter debt for household . what do that mean for the scottish people ? accord to Ofgem , northern and southern Scotland , which be cold , rural area , pay two of the four high standing rate of all the region of the UK . one of the inequity we suffer from be the regional distribution market , which mean that people in the highland — the cold , wet and windy part of the United Kingdom — pay the high price . the real scandal be the fact that the highland be a net exporter of energy , and we get charge to export the energy from the highland . that be the reality of Westminster control over Scotland ' s energy . we have the energy , they have the power and we pay the price . I could not agree more with my right hon . friend . accord to the House of Commons Library , in energy - rich , energy - export Scotland , energy cost make up 5 . 3 % of total spending , while in England they make up only 4 . 4 % . we have an energy - rich country , a centre of excellence for renewable where many people can literally look out of their window and see the energy be generate , yet some of they can not even afford to put on the heating . it be unacceptable . reinstate the energy bill rebate be a necessary short - term policy that the Chancellor choose to ignore . he should go back and reconsider that decision . in independent Ireland , the Government will introduce € 450 in energy bill support to all household to help they through the winter . now let we look at housing . More than 300 , 000 scottish homeowner have see their mortgage payment skyrocket , soar by an average of £ 2 , 500 per year . that be a direct result of the choice of this Chancellor ' s predecessor — choice that drive interest rate to punish height . nor do the pain stop with homeowner ; despite what have be announce today to help renter , they be equally trap , as rent will continue to surge despite those measure . today ' s measure be a drop in the ocean compare with the pressure they face . the majority of buy - to - let landlord , grapple with those interest hike , have no choice but to pass the cost on . the result be rent increase that outpace inflation , squeeze every last penny from tenant . of course , the Chancellor be no strange to hike rent for his own tenant well above inflation rate , as have be report this week . if he have deliver the extra funding across the UK to fund public service and fair public sector pay award , we could all do a bit more to help — but , of course , he choose not to . that will not change the fact that UK household now spend a fifth of their disposable income on housing , surpass the EU average of 17 . 4 % . for renter , the figure be even more alarming : it be almost a quarter of their income . yet while other european country similar in size or small than Scotland implement welfare policy to reduce poverty , the UK Government ' s response , as we have hear today , be to punish the most vulnerable . the statement should have be about help people to survive and help our economy towards proper growth . instead , growth be barely above zero and be not expect to climb by more than fraction — if indeed it do not decline . the Chancellor could have increase the Scottish Government ' s capital budget in line with inflation , which would have help we to build even more social housing and vital infrastructure . he choose not to . cost for insurance , mobile phone bill and other household basic requirement be also balloon at the moment . a House of Commons Library report find that since January 2022 , UK car insurance inflation grow exponentially , peak at 43 . 1 % in May this year . before the Conservatives tell we that that be not down to their Brexit fixation , let I add that our european neighbour see either no rise , or limited rise of only up to 6 % , while car insurance inflation in both Belgium and Ireland have actually reduce . here , household face cost rise after cost rise after cost rise , and people be beg for it to stop . the Chancellor still want we to believe that we be on the path to sound fiscal management . how many time will the Conservatives tell we that there be no money to support people with the cost of living — that there be no money tree — while they find room for what they want to do ? let we have a look at some of the priority they have manage to fund while they have be in office . the infamous mini - Budget manage to overshadow some staggering story of fiscal mismanagement . it be a showcase for how not to spend taxpayer money . first , there be High Speed 2 , which start as a £ 32 billion rail project , explode into an eye - water £ 100 billion project , and then , in a twist , be cancel — from a dream to a debt nightmare for taxpayer . despite cut the project , the Government somehow lose £ 2 . 3 billion on a Manchester to Birmingham line that lead nowhere . there be the £ 5 . 6 billion on tank that be 12 year late and not in service ; the £ 2 billion supposedly for aircraft carrier , but which turn out to be £ 6 billion when one of they have to be strip for part for the other ; and let we not overlook the £ 105 . 6 million splurge on now redundant architectural plan for Euston station — those plan be now as useful as a chocolate teapot . the Elizabeth line be a classic case of too little , too late — five year delay and £ 4 billion over budget . and who can forget the covid supply fiasco ? a staggering £ 15 billion be spend on unusable personal protective equipment , test and the rest — a fast - track to profit for a few , include an infamous inhabitant of the House of Lords , and a financial burden for our people to share . the Ministry of Justice be not far behind with its £ 98 million electronic tagging misadventure . there be the £ 900 , 000 paint job for the Prime Minister ' s aeroplane , because fiscal responsibility mean fly in style , obviously ; the £ 5 million spend to confirm what we already know , that mps must vacate the Palace of Westminster for renovation — pay double for the privilege of checking ; and the £ 120 million spend on the Brexit festival . I have no word to add to that . finally , let we not forget the £ 100 , 000 spend on a fake bell - bonging mechanism for Big Ben — try say that , let alone pay £ 100 , 000 for it . those be choice that those in Westminster make time and again — choice that speak volume about their priority — while our constituent struggle with the cost of living . they be disconnect from the harsh reality face by the public . they do not just misspend money ; they throw it out of the plane they have just repaint . what of choice for a well future ? where be the ambition on net zero ? the Conservatives have chuck it . it be utterly bizarre that , as other advanced economy invest in net zero and job , the UK go backwards . instead of grasp the gold rush of renewable , they dither and delay , just as they do for carbon capture at Peterhead . UK business investment have grow by just under 1 % a year since 2016 , and 6 % overall ; by comparison , it have grow 25 % in the US . right now in the US , the Inflation Reduction Act be help business and community to grow through radical plan to invest in renewable and hydrogen . be the UK Government look to maximise the supply chain benefit for Scotland and elsewhere ? no . they be focus on their climate change culture war , cost Scotland million , if not billion , in potential investment . the SNP Scottish Government choose differently . we value invest in our future — in green energy , in a fairer society . that be another reason why the UK Government should have focus on fund net zero , at the very least match the Scottish Government ' s £ 500 million fund for a just transition in the north - east of Scotland , and include funding for offshore wind project in Scotland . our value lead we to want to alleviate poverty . we seek measure now and in the future to help people with that : a council tax freeze , investment in childcare , no tuition fee , and use our limited power to mitigate the cruel policy from this place , such as the rape clause and the bedroom tax . we choose to put people first ; those be our value — value that build a fair , more prosperous Scotland . the Scottish Government have take the step that they can to help alleviate the bad impact of poverty , offer people a degree of stability through the council tax freeze and a cap on rent increase . we would do more , but the fiscal power need be here . if we have the power to help people today , we would . the Chancellor have the power to help people , but he refuse to lift a finger to right some of the wrong that his Government have inflict on people . People be not this Government ' s priority — we see who go through their priority lane . the UK Government have little to offer Scotland . our route out of the chaos that Westminster have create — perma - austerity and the cost of live nightmare that people be have to endure — be through independence and re - join the European Union . I warmly welcome the Chancellor ' s statement as a move back towards some sound conservative principle that have be somewhat lacking in recent year . I would have like his language to have be even more explicit , because the no . 1 principle that underpin what the Chancellor be say — if not express so explicitly — be that there be no such thing as public money , or government money : there be only taxpayer ' money , whether they be personal taxpayer or business taxpayer . we be begin to get away from the sterile tax and spend debate that have bedevil our country and , I would argue , our party for too long , and to get back to the territory of how to create wealth . it be right of the Chancellor to remind we of Nigel Lawson ' s maxim that borrowing be just the deferred taxation of the next generation . no one would think it be reasonable behaviour to max out their credit card and then give the bill to their offspring , but that be exactly what overspending and over - borrowing lead to , and it be exactly the same recipe that the Labour party be put to the british public all over again . like the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , I very much look forward to a general election : we will be able to expose the fact that the Labour party can not even tell we as a matter of fact — as a matter of its credibility — what proportion of current inflation it think be due to , for example , the commodity price shock that result from the invasion of Ukraine . Labour Members absolutely refuse to accept that anything be responsible for inflation other than UK domestic pressure and domestic policy . if they believe that that give their party credibility in the market , they have get another think come . we will want to make sure that the electorate understand that analysis very well . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? if the hon . Lady will answer that specific question on behalf of her Front Benchers , which they will not answer , I will happily give way . the right hon . Gentleman talk about which question will be ask during a general election campaign . since last year , my constituent have have to move with her husband and child back into her parent ' home : she can not afford a mortgage , because when she go to renew hers , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) have crash the economy . my constituent and a lot of other people who live in Crouch end and Muswell Hill can not afford their mortgage because this Government crash the economy . can the right hon . Gentleman tell the House what the Government will say to my constituent at a general election ? unsurprisingly , the hon . Lady be both incapable of answer the question and unable to do so . the question be , " what be the cause of inflation ? " it be inflation that drive up interest rate . I reiterate the point that my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) make : the Fed rate be 5 . 5 % , while the Bank of England rate be 5 . 25 % . I presume the hon . Lady think that — in her word — my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) crash the american economy too . it be complete nonsense ; it be a bogus economic analysis . we all know the impact that inflation have . we know that it hit the poor people in our society hard , which be why the Government , along with the Bank of England , be willing to see the pain of high interest rate apply . inflation do not help anyone . what I want to know , which I do not get from the hon . Lady or from her Front Benchers — surprise , surprise — be what they think be the external responsibility for that inflation . we do not have an answer from Labour , and therefore we have an opposition who have no credibility on one of the most basic question : what cause inflation ? if they do not know the answer , they can not possibly be trust to be in charge of this country ' s finance . one of the other thing that I welcome today be that we be move slowly — still a little too slowly , I would argue — towards a low - tax economy . the Chancellor set out the reason why a low - tax economy be a good thing . it be not just an abstract economic argument ; it fit with conservative idea of individual responsibility , reduce the size of government , give individual great choice , and provide incentive for those who will generate the wealth on which our future public service will depend . by emphasise the importance of create prosperity , rather than the sterile debate about whether we should spend less or tax more , we be get back into the right territory for a Conservative Government . I be especially pleased to hear the measure for small business . my hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) recently have to endure my previous speech on this subject recently , in which I point out that , unlike what you would believe if you listen to the Labour party , public sector and private sector job in our economy be not in balance . the public sector produce only about 17 % of the job in our economy ; it be the small business and the private sector that produce the job and prosperity on which our country depend . we have have too high a tax burden on small business as they have come out of the pandemic , so I welcome the measure today . I still have trouble with this term " growth " that go around . I do not believe that growth as measure by the standard definition be appropriate for a UK economy so highly gear towards service compare with good . I know that it be the accepted norm , but I think we need to find well way of describe it . I welcome some of the move towards improve capital availability , because if our business face one real problem , it be the lack of capital available for growth in our economy compare , for example , with the United States . that be because our economy be still too heavily gear towards the bank , and not enough towards private equity . we need to look at the breadth and depth of the private equity or venture capital industry in the United States and find out how we can replicate that in the United Kingdom if we be to give even more help to our small business . I very much welcome the incentive to work that the Chancellor announce . again , get people back into work be not just an economic exercise ; it be what I would regard as a moral imperative . if the only value people know they have be what the state give they to do nothing , how can they possibly know what value they could be to themselves , their family and their community if they be allow to realise their full potential ? get 200 , 000 more people back into work be a socially progressive thing to do , and if we be able to get more disabled people back into the workplace , so much the well for they , not just for the economy . I welcome what the Government have announce , because the good way to tackle poverty be to get people into work , and it be not just financial poverty but poverty of aspiration and poverty of hope that we be address by make this important social change . there be one or two other element on which I would have like to have have some more detail from the Chancellor . I hope my hon . friend the Minister might be able to provide that in respond to the debate . one of the problem right across the economy , particularly for small business , as the Chancellor state , be late payment . however , one of the most important culprit in late payment be local government . local authority be spend the taxis that we in this House have to raise , in addition to the taxis they raise themselves , and surely it be not acceptable to we that the taxis we raise be spend in a way that actually add an extra burden to small business . it should be a requirement on local authority that they pay all their bill to small business on time . I hope the Government will look at that , because I believe there would be widespread support across this House for measure that compel local government to do so . I very much welcome the additional £ 20 billion investment over the next decade . that will help to address the one problem that have bedevil our economy more , I think , than any other factor : productivity fall behind that of our competitor . improve the horizon for freeport by up to 10 year will give additional stability , and again I hope we can look at how we can have a deregulatory exercise in those area . that could test exactly how much we would get be we to expand the concept of freeport . I hope we can look more at the experience of country such as the United States , where freeport have great freedom than they have in the United Kingdom . the Government be move in exactly the right direction , but let we move far and fast on that . the Chancellor talk about other supply - side reform to the economy , one of they be the speeding up of improvement to the grid so that we can take advantage of the investment that have be make , for example , in renewable . I do not expect a response to that in the wind - up today , but I introduce a private member ' s Bill exactly to ensure that individual impact by the speeding up of improvement to the grid would have access to an independent arbitration programme , and not have National Grid decide whether they should get compensation and how much they should get . that be an unacceptable position . we have not yet see the regulation that will produce that independent arbitration , and we need to see they quickly . if we be to see the roll - out of an improved grid , it will impact more people , and we have to see a fair , equitable and affordable system where individual can seek redress if they feel they have be deal with unfairly . I will briefly mention the continue whinging victimhood of the nationalists . when they be talk about the ridiculous position that they be put in by be part of the Union , they just forget to mention — I be sure it be an omission — that the block grant have now rise to the high level since devolution begin , at £ 41 billion this year . for every £ 100 that the UK Government spend in England , the Scottish Government receive £ 126 per person in Scotland . rise — the hon . Member give his side of the case . I be just point to the fact that individual in Scotland do extremely well out of their membership of the Union . if SNP Members want to see a crash , they know exactly which way to go about it , although I fear that the elector of Scotland at the general election will ensure that they do not get the opportunity to test their mad theory to destruction . I be glad that we have a conservative financial statement today that set course for the spring Budget and the chance to set out genuine difference of ideology when we get to a general election . we believe that we should have a small state ; we believe in low taxis , public sector reform , and get well value for money for the taxpayer . the Labour party will want to increase spending , increase borrowing and pass it on to the next generation . as with all thing , the primal difference between socialist and Conservatives be that we believe in equality of opportunity ; they believe in equality of outcome and equal mediocrity for all . what we want to see be the betterment of the United Kingdom for the sake of all its people . I congratulate the hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) on her appointment as Chief Secretary to the Treasury . I be pleased to see a former Pensions Minister in that role , and I want to make some point about the pension measure announce in the autumn statement . first , on benefit uprating , I write on behalf of the Work and Pensions Committee to the Chancellor a month ago ask for two thing : first , for working - age benefit to be uprate in line with the normal formula , which be September ' s rate of inflation ; and secondly , for local housing allowance to be rebase to the 30th percentile . I be relieved that both those point be in the Chancellor ' s statement . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation report last month that 3 . 8 million people be experience destitution in the UK last year . a fortnight ago , the Trussell Trust report that food bank demand be 16 % high this year than it be last year , with 1 . 5 million emergency food bank parcel give out in the six month from April to September . how be it that our economy be fail to meet the basic need of so many in our society ? we need the economy to start function properly again in a way that it clearly be not and have not be for a number of year . spurious justification be propose for uprate working - age benefit by a low amount in the autumn statement . have those be adopt , they would simply have make thing even bad , so I welcome the fact that the Treasury resist those call . I congratulate the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on achieve the outcome that we have hear this afternoon . I also welcome the rebasing of local housing allowance . by next April , it will have be freeze for four year , when rent have rise sharply . the freeze be cause widespread homelessness among work family who be do perfectly decent job , but could no long afford the rent . that be then impose enormous cost on local council for temporary accommodation , so I be pleased the allowance have be rebase , but I want to call for annual rebasing of the local housing allowance . it should be at the 30th percentile each year . I hope we will be tell that it will . I be also glad that the temptation to water down the pension triple lock have be resist . last week , the Work and Pensions Committee publish a report on the Government ' s cost of live support payment in which we identify a number of gap in payment make . I be relieve that the Chancellor say in answer to my question that the household support fund be be maintain . there be a strong case for make it a permanent feature of our system so that local authority know that they will have fund each year for provide local welfare support . that have be important in the crisis over the last few year . I hope that we can make it long term and that its rule do not keep change as they have over the last few year , make it difficult for local authority to make a good job of administer it . I be glad that it will be there next year and I hope that the rule for it will not change next year as well . the consultation on propose change to the work capability assessment , which be mention by the Chancellor , have be rush and be inadequate — only eight week to consider major change . those change that he say will go ahead will make thing difficult for a significant number of people . we be tell in a document that I think have be publish since the Chancellor sit down that the vast majority of those who have already be assess as have limited capability for work - relate activity will not have to go through another work capability assessment , because that assessment be to be abolish . that , of course , will be of some relief for many , but it remain unclear what will replace it in the long term and when the promise legislation will come forward . I be glad that the Chancellor be progress the aim he set out at the Mansion House to increase pension fund investment in the economy to increase return to pensioner , as he say , as well as to improve outcome for investor and unlock capital for our growth business . there be a good deal of benefit in that approach , but where be the pension Bill ? I be genuinely mystify by that . in July , when the Chief Secretary be the Pensions Minister , her Department promise a " permanent regulated regime " for pension superfund " as soon as the parliamentary time allow " . evidence to our Committee have be clear that in the absence of a permanent statutory framework , superfund will continue to struggle , undermine the Chancellor ' s aim . I think the Chancellor reiterate his commitment to a regulated regime for pension superfund , but there be no sign of legislation . I wonder if anyone can tell we what be propose . the Select Committee call on the Pensions Regulator to make change to the new scheme funding regime — the Chief Secretary will be familiar with this from her previous role — to enable open define - benefit scheme , like the railway pension scheme , to continue to invest in the economy , as the Chancellor rightly want to happen . the Department have tell we that concern about the wellbeing of open define - benefit scheme will be address , but they have not be yet , and the new code , which be cause a lot of anxiety , be , as the Chief Secretary know , due to be introduce in April . any clarification of the intention there will be gratefully receive . I look forward to hear more about the role in consolidation among small define - benefit pension scheme that the Chancellor mention in his statement , and the role he envisage for the outstandingly successful Pension Protection Fund in take on that task . the Chancellor have talk about a consultation on a " pot for life " approach to pension saving . there be certainly benefit to that approach , and he refer to they , but there be problem as well . he say that there will be a consultation , and I think that be appropriate . in particular , there be the challenge for employer of have to manage lot of different pension fund among their different employee . there will be a significant increase in employer cost of handle that , and I hope that will be properly explore in the consultation . I welcome the change announce in Monday ' s write statement to improve the support for people out of work on health ground and with disability , include well employment support , plan for a severe disability group and , as the Select Committee recommend , try out match ill health benefit claimant with an assessor with experience of their primary health condition . there be idea for assess fluctuate health condition , which I hope will be helpful . I wholeheartedly welcome the expansion that the Chancellor mention of integrated placement and support , which be recommend in the Committee ' s report on the Government ' s plan for job . the evidence be clear that it be helpful for people with mild to moderate mental health condition to get back into work . the increase access to talk therapy be welcome too . the Chancellor have announce an expansion of the restart scheme . we do not know how good that be because , until now , the Department have refuse to publish the outcome datum for restart . I be glad that , in response to the Select Committee , it have say that it will start publish that datum , so we will see whether the scheme be do a good job . the Committee take evidence this morning on the UK share prosperity fund , which target inactivity . one of the problem with the scheme be that the allocation be make in the middle of the year in which the money be suppose to be spend , so it be not surprising that people have not be able to set up the programme that the funding support . I hope that the Government will get their act together and ensure that the allocation be announce in good time for local authority to award provider contract to deliver the help that be need . the promise improvement for employment support have be match by announcement of harsh sanction . it be clear that sanction be already high for people claim universal credit and the other working - age benefit . there be no evidence at all that what be propose will make people more likely to move into work . particularly , where people be out of work because of a mental health problem , there be grow evidence that increase sanction make matter bad . there have be a large response to the Government ' s announcement , particularly for people out of work on mental health ground , that the propose increase in sanction will make people less likely to get into work . yesterday , I receive a letter with 70 signature from single parent group , child ' s charity , domestic abuse charity and other , ask that the Select Committee look at the newly increase work obligation impose on carer of young child . at the moment , carer of young child expect to work 16 hour a week — that be to be nearly double to 30 hour a week . the letter challenge those proposal for reasonableness and feasibility . if someone be look after young child , be it appropriate to demand such large work week — far great than the requirement until now ? after the misery of the past few year , we must all hope that the plan set out by my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) in answer to the Chancellor ' s statement be put in place next year , finally , to reignite much need growth in the UK economy . it be always a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) . I have the pleasure of serve on the Select Committee he chair and I listen very carefully to the point he make . like he , I intend to focus on the element support people to work and back into work . before I do so , let I say how much I welcome today ' s statement . the measure will have a huge impact on people across the nation and , of course , in my constituency . to draw out one thing which for I be a huge headline , make full expensing permanent be a real game changer for business , give they certainty in investment . what I see as the social contract be our strive for equality of opportunity , knock down the barrier to people ' s get on in life and in employment , while also provide support so that if thing do not work out for people — they become ill — there be a safety net to catch they and help they through . that be really important . one common reason people drop out of employment be illness and disability . follow become unwell , one of the most important outcome in someone ' s treatment pathway be get they back into work . why be that ? because work give agency . work provide opportunity . work be hope . all of we need stable employment — a statement that colleague will perhaps be mindful of , a year from a general election . work give people a reason to get up in the morning . it provide a structure to the day . it provide opportunity and the aspiration to invest in one ' s self and to invest in society , and to continue as a citizen in our community . work be a core good . it be absolutely right that we do everything we can to support people back into work , to support people into work for the first time , and to help people who be struggle in work to ensure that they stay in employment . several measure we have hear today be absolutely critical in that offering to people from the state . the first measure , mention a moment ago by the right hon . member for East Ham , be individual placement support . this be an incredibly good package . there be now a huge evidence base behind it support people into work , but , critically , retain employment , which often be the real challenge . it be about not just get a job but be able to sustain employment and ensure it work out . I have be call for it for year . year ago , before I be an MP , I learn about the benefit of IPS and what an important package it be to support people in employment . in my constituency , we have a branch of Richmond Fellowship . the team , base in Chertsey , do fantastic work . they have speak to I about the importance of IPS and what it will deliver to help people back into work and to continue in work . the second measure be the expansion of broad support package . I be particularly interested in the reform of the fit note system to try to get well pathway between health and social care , integrate care system and the Department for Work and Pensions . we still have very siloe institution and anything that will help they all work together , because it be a full package that work holistically , will lead to improvement . the social contract I refer to be also about fairness . it remain the case that there be people — a small minority — who can work but decide not to . all thing be equal , they can get into work and sustain a job but choose not to . it be not fair to ask our taxpayer to pay taxis , which they can not refuse to pay , to subsidise someone ' s decision to exit the employment market . what be fair be for we to say , " hey — we will do everything we can to support you into work . we will provide package to help you when illness happen , either because you can not work because the illness be so severe , or " — and this be the primary focus — " to make sure that you can get back into work and you can get well , and that be part of your recovery plan for the future . but if you do not want to be part of that and you can be , it be not fair to ask other people to subsidise your lifestyle choice . " I support , 100 % , reform that be fair not only to people who be receive benefit and who be live with complex illness , but to our society as a whole . before launch into my speech , I will pick up some comment make by the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) . he say that his Government be in favour of the measure lay out today but that the official Opposition , represent by my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , be in favour of public spending . I think it worth point out , as I have the privilege of chair the Public Accounts Committee , that this Government have be put off issue repeatedly until they reach crisis point . it be all very well for they to say that they do not want to spend money on the public sector , but they be actually cost it more . for instance , our Committee recently produce a report on the school building programme which reveal that 700 , 000 pupil be in inadequate premise ; and although a former Prime Minister announce a programme for the building of 40 hospital , there be still only 32 , and the building of those hospital be expect to " bunch " by the late 2020 or thereabout . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and have just make an important point . my local hospital , the Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading , be one of those that be promise something but have not yet receive anything . this be a problem for many community around the country it be a real concern . those 32 hospital be just the tip of the iceberg of what be need , and nothing be in train yet , so if it bunch into the late 2020 and then into the 2030 , that could leave some — the seven affect by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — beyond their useful life , and it will mean a squeeze on construction . for school and hospital alone this be a huge challenge , but it be also worth mention an animal health centre in Weybridge , in the constituency of the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , which have suffer from under - investment for a long time . if we have two zoonotic disease in this country , we could not currently cope with that , because the centre be greatly in need of public sector investment . these be thing that the Government can not dodge , because it be not possible to bring in other resource . it be easy to make jibe , but in reality there be a big challenge . we have , of course , see council squeeze until the pip squeak , although they be vital to the delivery of service that will not be deliver by anyone else . there be no private sector alternative , even for those whose ideology lead they in that direction . overall , there be a great deal of smoke and mirror in the statement . I have have a look at the Green Book , although I can not claim to have go through every pledge in enormous detail because there have not be time since the Chancellor sit down , but we have already see pledge in early Budgets and autumn statement unravel . one pet idea of a former Chancellor , the lifetime ISA , be not mention today ; I certainly could not see anything in the Green Book about it . those who have a lifetime ISA can invest in a property that be worth up to £ 450 , 000 . in my constituency , it be impossible to find any new - build property for £ 450 , 000 . the level have not keep up with price , and as far as I can see there be to be no uprating . this mean that many young people who hope that this would help they to get a foot on the housing ladder have no hope . if any of the Treasury Ministers can say anything about that , my constituent will be glad to hear it . I have just give an example of a dud financial product , deliver and then forget about . the Chancellor also mention childcare . notwithstanding the pledge to provide free childcare for parent of child age one and two , not enough place be available , because the money have not go into deliver those place . childcare facility will not be able to provide childcare at less than the cost of the hourly rate of the people provide it . this be simply a pledge without any back - up , which be of real concern . I be pleased to see that the local housing allowance have receive its long - overdue increase , but I be not sure whether it will make any difference in many part of the country where there be still a shortage of housing , apart from very expensive private rent housing . I will be touch on housing cost in Hackney . local government be struggle and fail , and the much - vaunted levelling up have be opaque . we can not see exactly where the money have be spend and we have not really see result . there be a lot of flim - flam and promise but the money be spread very badly , as report this week have highlight . local government be one area that be be squeeze considerably , and now there be this idea that if a big planning application be not deal with in a give timeframe , the council will have to refund the planning fee . where be all the planner who be suppose to do this work , give the enormous shortage of that skill in local government ? also , the fee do not currently even cover the cost of a planning application , as many developer tie planning department up in knot as they argue for more storey or few affordable housing unit , and they can go on do that for a year . it be not always the fault of the planner when there be delay in planning application , but that be an easy statement to make . my party want to ensure that the planning system work so that we can get those new home build and get all the necessary capital infrastructure move . there will be a proper plan behind the pledge of my party when we get to our manifesto . on skill , we all want to see a skilled - up economy , but again we be look at a failure over 13 year , after all the promise . the Green Book tell I that there will £ 50 million for a two - year pilot to stimulate training in growth sector and address barrier to entry . I think we have hear this one before . it be great to see a pilot , and great to see investment in it , but it be always too late . I be argue over a decade ago that we need skill in the green growth industry . an industrial strategy that include that would have boost the economy and get we ahead of the game internationally on green issue . we need construction industry skill , include in the skilled trade . that be predictable when we go through the Brexit vote in 2016 , yet here we be in 2023 and we still have those challenge . there be huge skill issue in civil and nuclear defence , as my Committee , the Public Accounts Committee , have repeatedly highlight . we can not create highly experienced people in a decade , but we could have go a long way if work have be do early . we also lack skill in fire safety . I should declare an interest in that I live in a block that have cladding . we need fire safety engineer to get through the process , and there be a shortage of they . it only take three year to train for that role , and if we have start do that after Grenfell , we would be much well place now . I will be generous and say that I welcome some thing in the autumn statement . the piloting of additional jobcentre support for universal credit claimant at seven week in 90 jobcentre be a good thing . as we repeatedly say on the Committee , it be good to pilot initiative — and 90 be quite a big pilot — so that we can learn and make sure that they work properly and become embed . seven week — nearly two month — be a long time to be without work , and if people can get that extra bit of intense support early on to keep they off long - term unemployment , that will be a good thing . but I be massively concerned about end benefit after 18 month for people who say that they will not go to work . People have many issue that be health - related but that do not qualify they for the personal independence payment . I pay tribute to the jobcentre coach in the jobcentre in Hackney , and particularly those who work with the most vulnerable and disabled people . they provide amazing support to people , but we need a lot of those really good people to deliver this , and they will all need to be train and develop . all previous work programme show that health be one of the big final barrier to get people into work , and that there be a residual group of people who , for various health reason , can not easily access work . the DWP be often call the Department of wonderful people , but however great its staff might be , they can not always cross that barrier to deal with someone ' s health problem , because that be a whole different issue for that individual in relation to their medical support , if they have it . the Public Accounts Committee have repeat endlessly that sanction do not work and that they just cause real problem for people . in Hackney , we have just over 16 , 000 people claim universal credit and over a third of they be in employment , so these be not all people who be not work . but there be many other barrier , include childcare and travel cost , as well as significant logistical barrier match to particular job . I vividly remember a gentleman come to my surgery who be a kitchen porter . he want to improve his English , as it be not his first language , and he be struggle to get a job . he go to the jobcentre and they be send he to zone 6 . for people outside London , my constituency be in zone 1 and 2 , and zone 6 be quite a distance away and a lot more expensive to travel to . the time and cost of travel for someone on a kitchen porter ' s wage , even with an uplift in the minimum wage , will still be challenge in London , combine with the fact that he have two small child and a wife who also have a low - pay job . it be logistically impossible for he to do what the jobcentre be ask of he . if we be go to have all these change , there need to be an awful lot of investment in jobcentre to get anywhere near make they work . what will happen at the end of 18 month if someone be not in work ? will they be leave destitute ? there be lot of question there . I be interested in the national insurance contribution for self - employ people . the Public Accounts Committee have look at serious challenge with pension and pension record in the DWP . I will not go into too much detail now — for those who be interested , our work be all on our website — but there have be issue with inaccurate record keeping and the database and system in the DWP not talk to each other . the problem first affect a group of woman — widow over 80 and other — who do not get their full state pension , but an issue be uncover more recently that affect mostly woman who have caring responsibility and should have have credit but , because of the link between HMRC and DWP not work properly , those be not properly record and reflect . whatever the policy , we need to make sure that it work technically . it say in the Green Book that credit will be apply , but we need to make sure that the technical system be in place , because it would be a tragedy if people who be self - employ find later down the line that they could not claim the state pension because that circle have not be square . the 1 % - a - year increase in funding to Whitehall be , of course , a repeat of what be say early in the year , but it be a real - term cut , so every Department will have to trim what it be deliver . there be so many other fail area . we have talk about hospital and school , where we know that demand be really big . the Department for Education want to build 200 new school a year . in the 2020 spending review , it be allocate £ 1 . 3 billion for just 50 new school a year . now , there be 100 school with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete that need to be in that programme — the Secretary of State identify that problem at the end of August , just day before term start — and they be knock other school down the list . eventually , there will be 500 ; goodness know how long that will take on the current timeframe . public spending be not always a bad thing ; in fact , delay it can cost a lot more to the taxpayer and those try to receive service in the meantime . I welcome the money for debt management in HMRC . that be good , but we on the Public Accounts Committee will of course be watch closely how it work . if money be invest well in the DWP and HMRC , we can see real dividend for the taxpayer , and no one want to see fraud and bad debt . despite the increase in local housing allowance , which be a help , the LHA rate still cause problem . in the private rent sector in Hackney , the average rent for a two - bed be just shy of £ 2 , 000 a month , and there be 30 % few private rent property available now than there be before the pandemic . before today — I have not be able to establish whether today ' s announcement will have a real impact in Hackney — not a single property be available to those on low income at LHA rate . if we be only go up to the 30th percentile , there will still be a real challenge in a borough where we have see more home for rent build at the luxury end of the market than at the low end . anyone lucky enough to be in a low - cost , relatively stable private sector home do not really have the option to move , so the supply be not be replenish . that bring I to a really difficult issue for my constituent . one in two child live in poverty , we be the 22nd poor borough in the country and we have such a serious housing problem . I mention that every time I speak in the Chamber , and I make no apology for that . not only do we have generation rent live in insecure property , with rent spiral out of control , but we have a huge shortage of social housing . in the year to 2022 , only 671 social housing unit become available , down from 1 , 200 - odd in 2016 - 17 . that diminution be explain partly by the fact that , once someone have get social housing , they do not move out , because there be nowhere to go . that be leave many of my constituent live in massively overcrowded condition . someone come to see I at my last surgery who have three child in a one - bedroom housing association flat , but the housing association have nowhere to put he , so he be bid on the council list . if his case be typical , he will be wait 12 year for a two - bedroom property . we have 3 , 759 child in temporary accommodation , which be enough to fill eight primary school and be 1 % of the population of my borough . we be have to close school because child be leave , as lot of family can not afford to live in Hackney any long . those child be often house outside the borough , because of the cost of housing in Hackney . so this be a really big concern . in the year to 2023 — in the last financial year — more than 4 , 000 resident approach the council seek housing help , which be an increase of 18 % on the figure for 2018 - 19 . these figure be increase exponentially every year , despite the good effort of our excellently run Labour council . under the new mayor , Caroline Woodley , and her predecessor , there have be a real desire and effort to build properly affordable social housing , include council housing . however , this be a drop in the ocean for the need . this autumn statement do nothing to help the people I be talk about . People be live in poverty and in overcrowded condition . as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) say from the Front Bench , they be not well off than they be 13 year ago . they be considerably bad off and there be no hope — except , I hope , a general election , when my party will come in to try to sort out this mess . I be pleased to follow the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) . she have make some important point , some of which I will come on to shortly . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his statement . as we go through the detail of the announcement and the delight of the OBR forecast , there will be much discussion in the forthcoming debate . I always take the view that Budgets and fiscal event , some of which I have be part of in the past , need to address three crucial challenge : whether they support the economic freedom of our constituent ; whether they empower business and enterprise to create economic growth , as it be the private sector , not the state , that grow the economy — I will come on to state spending shortly ; and whether they manage the public finance in a sound and sustainable way . I suspect that you , Mr Deputy Speaker , like I be old enough to remember the great conservative Budgets from the 1980 deliver by Geoffrey Howe and Nigel Lawson — you do not need to agree with I on that right now . they set the benchmark that any Chancellor , especially a conservative one , should look to and follow to get the right balance of create economic growth and sustain the public finance in a suitable , sustainable and measure way . it should always be the mission of a Conservative Government to ensure that people can keep more of what they earn ; it be right that the Chancellor use that statement a number of time and speak about the fiscal measure he be introduce to ensure that that happen . of course , business and people spend their money far more effectively , efficiently and productively than the state , which be why low - tax economy be also naturally the fast grow one . a low tax burden would mean more money in the pocket of our constituent to provide for themselves and their family . have listen to speech make by those on the Opposition Benches , it be fair to say that we would all agree that we want all our constituent to be well - off , financially and economically , for their family and their future . a low tax burden would also mean more money available to business to invest and expand . the Chancellor touch on some measure , and I shall do so shortly , on job and high salary . naturally , this lead to more resource for economic growth . that be also why I fundamentally believe the Government should look to bring the level of personal taxation down . the Chancellor mention that today , but I might suggest a few cheeky measure to say what more we can do on that , as more can be do . today ' s autumn statement mark — these might actually be the word of the Chancellor — a major moment when the Government and the country change gear and focus on how to drive growth in the decade ahead with the a package of tax measure , while seek to ensure that inflation continue to fall . that be absolutely right . there be different way in which it can be achieve , and the Chancellor have outline the way in which he want to make sure that it happen . on the measure announce today , naturally I support cut the main rate of national insurance contribution — the infamous nic — from 12 % to 10 % . it be refreshing to not only address but go as far as abolish class 2 contribution for the self - employ . that will have implication and the devil be in the detail , as touch on by the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch , include issue of interoperability , such as how that will relate to and engage with the pension system , technical measure and delivery . that be a fact of life . I do not want to be point , but HMRC and DWP use two different system that be not always interoperable ; I be a former DWP Minister and a former Treasury Minister , so I have see that in action . I urge the Government to pay attention to the delivery of that measure , and I have no doubt that the Public Accounts Committee will be watch very closely as well . on reduce the tax burden , my colleague on the Treasury Bench will expect I to say that I maintain , fundamentally , that we can do more to freeze income tax level . I know Treasury Ministers have hear I and indulge I on that subject before . back in 2010 , the measure around the tax - free threshold and increase the high rate threshold be a significant way to help family directly , in a sustainable way . I point to that example because it do not lead to a fall in inflation . of course , the inflationary measure we see now — external measure , such as the war in Ukraine and energy price — be different , but I will continue to lobby the Government relentlessly because I want to see a shift in tax - free and high rate allowance . that be important in the context set out by the OBR today , which state : " tax change in this Autumn Statement reduce the tax burden by 0 . 7 per cent of GDP but it still rise in every year to a post - war high of 37 . 7 per cent of GDP by 2028 - 29 . income tax increase explain most of the increase in this forecast , rise from 10 . 2 per cent of GDP this year , to 11 . 3 per cent in 2028 - 29 " . those increase be drive by , dare I say it , the threshold freeze in income tax rate and the nominal earning growth that will come from that . the implication be self - evident : more of our constituent will pay more income tax , there be the infamous fiscal drag and more people will move into high rate band , so ultimately 400 , 000 more people will pay the additional rate . do the right hon . Lady agree that will create a burden for those people who will then have to complete a tax return ? in addition , there will be an impact on child benefit , so there be a double whammy once people hit the high threshold , if they have child . the right hon . Lady be correct and make an important point . I do not want to be box the ear of my hon . friend on the Treasury Bench today , which be their day , but I sound like a broken record on this subject . I would go for complete streamlining and simplification of the tax system , even on NI , where I would like to see measure such as the merger of income tax and NI . I would love to see a simple system where we do not have the burden of bureaucracy . even when we speak about full expensing in the Budget , the business and regulatory implication be pretty vast . the childcare measure be very good and encouraging , but from , a personal perspective , even more complexity be be introduce to the system and we , as conservative , could do much more to streamline that . I encourage the right hon . Lady on what she say about the integration of tax and national insurance . although such measure be not without their complication , they can be overcome , so perhaps there should be some work across the House to examine that issue . let we make thing simple and more straightforward for all our taxpayer . we could have a separate debate on a single income tax and all sort of other measure . I would like to see tax transparency as well . I be so old - fashioned that I think we should be able to follow every pound of Government expenditure , and that there should be far great transparency for the public in that regard . I be sure that the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) would support that , too , from her perspective as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . I do not say these thing lightly . in this modern day , when we have much great digitalisation and access to information , our constituent naturally also want to see more transparency in that area , especially while the Government be invest in artificial intelligence and all sort of other thing , include bot . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs could be run by bot before we know it , although on that basis alone we might get more efficient telephone conversation and call handling . none the less , more need to be do , and we should welcome that . I will move on to a couple of other measure , but just while we be on the subject of taxation and revenue , I wish to make a point about the saving that can be make from Government efficiency . this matter have not be address today , but the Chancellor do touch on it . there be much more work that need to be do in this area , although I appreciate that this be an autumn statement and not a full - fat Budget . for the spring in particular , this be one area where we can do much more in boost state productivity . the Chancellor always mention the p word — productivity — but in 2021 - 22 , just as an illustration , the Government deliver £ 4 . 4 billion - worth of efficiency saving . in monetary term , that be significant , but it represent just 0 . 4 % of public expenditure — a drop in the ocean . for the benefit of our constituent , let I say that that be £ 1 for every £ 250 spend . again , much more need to be do in that area . let I continue on the theme of hard - press taxpayer . this be not mention today , but at previous fiscal event I have voice support for the fuel price escalator . I believe that we should do much more to back our motorist and make sure that the 5p cut in fuel duty , which be introduce in 2022 , be maintain . there be some important signalling that we can do as a government to ensure that the UK ' s 37 million driver be not see as a cash cow . we must back they and continue to remain on their side . that bring I to business taxis . our economy rely on private enterprise . I be an Essex MP , and Essex be the county of entrepreneur . some 80 % of my constituent work for small and medium - sized enterprise , which be 20 % high than the national average . we be proud of those sme , but we really need they to keep their head above water . that be why we must always support business — small business as well as big business . it be the small business that be the engine of economic growth . I be proud to represent a county where we have business that be hungry to innovate and invest , and I want the Government to free they from the shackle that hold they back . a lot of that be regulation and red tape ; and there be far too much of that . I have previously call for a freeze of the small business rate multiplier , and I be pleased that the Chancellor have agree . that in its own right will have some benefit . I know that it have be reinstate for another year , along with other retail and hospitality measure . retail and hospitality be burgeon and important sector that can help to boost our struggle high street . I welcome the continuation of business support with full expensing , which I have touch on , but there should be great clarity over how that will operate , what it will mean for business , and the burden that it will place on the sector . will firm have to employ an army of accountant who will eat into their business expense ? reduce overall taxis on business be , of course , welcome . it will help firm to invest , to create job and to boost supply , which be incredibly important . when I call on business to invest , that also mean that we must do much more to get they to invest in skill . skill and productivity be the big challenge that we face . I would , at some stage , like to press those on the Treasury Front Bench on why we be still not commit ourselves to a labour market strategy around some of the key sector where we know we have shortage in skill growth . when it come to specialist sector , we want to be the hub for technology , innovation and science , so we need to consider what more we can do . we also need to consider the work that be require around the green economy . as a former Home Secretary , I can say that we rely far too heavily on migration to fulfil our labour market need . for the past five year , even when in Government , I have consistently and continuously call for that to be address . it sit with the Treasury , not just the DWP , and I urge the Chancellor to make good on those call . I have discuss it with he several time . I want to speak about the importance of the energy sector . the Chancellor touch on connectivity to the national grid in today ' s autumn statement . I be an Essex MP . off the coast of the east of England , we have enormous potential when it come to increase our energy security , because we have be successful in produce renewable energy offshore . we be effectively a hub in the east of England , where we have have investment . effort to develop the sector and increase renewable energy be welcome , and we be proud of the work that have take place , but we be now suffer from the lack of strategic planning . windfarm have receive consent and be develop without serious thought be give to interoperability and connection to the network and to the grid . that have result in one of the most deeply unpopular policy from central Government , which be now affect the whole of the east of England : the National Grid ' s plan to cover the east of England countryside with over 100 mile of pylon and overhead power line . our constituent do not support that . I be fully aware of what the Winser review say , and of the prospect of support — financial bribe , as my constituent call it — for local residence , but we need to ensure that there be proper engagement . we be put forward alternative to pylon , and offshore option that we want to work with the Government to develop . that would support our renewable sector , bring further skill to our region and our country . ultimately , we have to address the issue of local constituent feel frustrated . they resent that this be be do to they , rather than it be their suggestion and some of the local investment be take into consideration . there be a sense that decision be be make in an opaque way and that their view be be ignore . I would welcome well dialogue and consultation from the Government on this . the Chancellor touch on the fact that devolution deal be under way . this be a work in progress for we in Essex . I would very much like to engage with the Treasury and the Government on what a great devolution deal would mean for our fantastic county , particularly when it come to investment in skill and infrastructure . devolution deal can promise the earth , but central Government have to deliver the good , and it have to translate into a return on the investment locally . in Essex , we be net contributor to the Treasury , so we can apply the multipli effect and work out where we be get the benefit , and where we be not get our return on the investment . we should have further discussion on that . I welcome the direction of travel in the autumn statement . the Chancellor have open the door to sound economic principle of low taxis . I welcome the support for business , which be fundamental . I urge everyone on the Government Front Bench to continue to look at way to lower taxis , include personal taxis . time have be tough for the british public . we want to ensure that all our constituent be able to keep more of the money that they earn , and ultimately have a secure economic future . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who make an interesting and thoughtful speech . the backdrop of the autumn statement be an ongoing cost of live crisis and a flailing government who can not defend their appalling record in office and know that the general election be fast approach . the fifth Tory Prime Minister in 13 year have have four relaunche in the past six week . he can not decide whether he be the change candidate or continuity Cameron , he cancel the northern leg of HS2 in Manchester , his king ' s Speech be a visionless damp squib , and he have have to ditch an incompetent Home Secretary he should never have appoint in the first place . the reality be that the Tories have deliver 13 year of chaos , incompetence and instability . they have make our country weak , and work people be bad off . take together , these Tory government have deliver 25 tax rise since 2019 . the last Prime Minister sack the Treasury permanent secretary responsible for fiscal stability , crash the economy and nearly melt down pension fund , and million of people be pay high mortgage and rent as a result . since the last election we have see the high increase in tax in any Parliament since record begin and today ' s announcement have not change that reality . this Tory Government have cost each and every household in the UK a massive £ 4 , 000 in tax rise since 2010 . even after today ' s tax cut , the tax burden still reach its high level for 70 year . the Tories have deliver the bad economic growth since the 1920 and the bad performance for real wage growth since Napoleon crown himself emperor . yet despite a tax burden run at a 70 - year high and a debt which be the high in peacetime , our public service be crumble , our school be riddle with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — RAAC — our river be full of sewage , and there be 7 . 8 million people on an NHS waiting list . the Tories in all their various iteration of Government have somehow manage to deliver the bad of both world : record high taxis and crumble public service , and an ongoing cost of live crisis cause misery to million . to be fair , there have be some achievement . we have see record level of waste and fraud : a staggering £ l00 billion of it in the last four year . my constituent be furious about this , and it be right and proper that my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor have pledge to set up a covid corruption commissioner to get some of these lose billion back . it be good news that since March this year growth have be revise up slightly , inflation have halve — although be still high by G7 standard — and borrowing have be revise down . in other word , inflation be twice the target and growth be so modest it could be a round up error . the bad news be that the economy be barely grow , with ongoing risk of a recession , and despite what the Chancellor say in his autumn statement , the OBR have downgrade growth forecast substantially for the next three year . living standard be now due to be 3 . 5 % low in 2024 - 25 than pre - pandemic , the large reduction in living standard since the 1950 . taxis be at record level and the national debt be project scarcely to fall at all , mean soar level of debt interest spending to service it . high tax receipt in nominal term and borrowing come in slightly below the expectation set in the March Budget have increase the so - call headroom the Chancellor have if he be to meet his fiscal rule . he have decide to spend all of it . the OBR point out that half of this so - call headroom come from a fuel duty escalator that keep be cancel and which the right hon . member for Witham have just perfectly reasonably argue ought to be cancel next time . that mean the headroom the Chancellor have just splash around be cut in half by that one decision on fuel duty . this apparent largesse of his also signal — he do not talk about this much — that public spending plan which be already very tight indeed be go to end up even tight . as the OBR have point out in its assessment publish this afternoon , this headroom be " mainly a reflection of a £ 19 . 1 billion erosion in the real value of departmental spending . " the Chancellor do not give we any indication that he be go to increase public spending in real term to compensate for that , which mean that already very difficult public service and departmental budget will be squeeze far . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have calculate that the extra spending pressure imply real - term cut of 16 % for unprotected department such as Justice and flat budget in real term for many of the rest , but the Chancellor have conveniently push that scarcely credible fiscal consolidation into the next Parliament , where it be safe to assume he will not be in the job or have to deliver it . it be a scorch earth policy that Julius Caesar would recognise . the outlook for both growth and productivity be currently gloomy . the OBR forecast a modest improvement this year , couple with significant downgrade for the next three year . that be slightly more optimistic than the Bank of England forecast last month , which put the chance of a recession next year at 50 - 50 , with the possibility of three quarter of zero growth . as member of the Monetary Policy Committee point out in evidence to the Treasury Committee yesterday , productivity growth since 2016 have be a dismal 6 % , while the USA have achieve a 25 % increase in the same period . fall so far below our competitor will simply lock in the stagflation we be already experience . there can be no prospect of sustainable growth in living standard and real wage without a significant improvement in our economy ' s performance . labour have long argue for a move to make full expensing of business investment permanent . the Chancellor condemn that as " irrespon - sibility from Labour " in the King ' s Speech debate just eight day ago , so we welcome his damascene conversion today , which end the uncertainty of the three - year cut - off period and the problem it be create . we need to increase economic growth , and , despite the blind faith of the Conservative party , tax cut do not do that ; investment in equipment and people do . labour ' s green prosperity plan will put shovel in the ground and crane in the sky , propel we to net zero and transform our infrastructure in every region , truly prepare we for the future . have spend most of the last year say that tax cut be irresponsible , the Chancellor have now decide to cut national insurance by 2p at a cost of around £ 10 billion , spend that headroom create by high nominal tax receipt because inflation be high than expect . while inflation have halve , it be still very high in comparison with other G7 country , and the Governor of the Bank of England tell we yesterday in the Treasury Committee that he fear that the risk be on the upside , so there be considerable danger in the Chancellor pursue the strategy that he have decide on . the current Prime Minister ' s decision to freeze tax threshold for six year have be reveal as a stealth tax that be due to rake in £ 52 billion — one of the big tax grab ever , as I think the right hon . member for Witham say in her contribution . the cut to national insurance do not unravel that tax grab . for most people , even after that modest cut to their national insurance contribution , their taxis will still go up next April . the OBR point out on page 11 of its executive summary that the tax change " reduce the tax burden by 0 . 7 per cent of GDP but it still rise in every year to a post - war high of 37 . 7 per cent of GDP by 2028 - 29 . income tax increase explain most of the increase in this forecast " , and go on to demonstrate that " frozen threshold result in nearly 4 million additional worker pay income tax , 3 million more moved to the high rate , and 400 , 000 more pay the additional rate . " apparently , that be a tax - cut Budget , in our Chancellor ' s view — well , not in mine . close to the end of the Parliament in which the conservative party have raise the tax take by more than any of its predecessor , give a tiny bit back at the end will make virtually no difference . I be pleased that the Chancellor have decide to uprate benefit as normal despite the speculation that he would not do so , but benefit have already be cut a lot and have not keep pace with inflation . with that and other cut since 2010 , the poor fifth of the income distribution have lose £ 2 , 700 , as the Resolution Foundation have show . the social security system be not generous : 73 % of universal credit recipient be in food poverty — and by the way , food inflation be still at a punish 10 . 1 % . in my Wallasey constituency , there have be a 54 % increase in the number of people need to use food bank in the past year . the autumn statement have do nothing to address those concern . we need a change of Government away from the chaos , the in - fighting , the clown show . we need a serious Labour Government with a plan to grow our economy and prepare properly for the future . we need plan reform to be deliver , not talk about ; we need Labour ' s green prosperity plan to get we to net zero and create good job ; and we need a new deal for work people to ensure that work pay . and by the way , we also need a general election — the soon , the well . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) . as I listen to her speech , I come to the conclusion that we have something in common : we both seem to welcome tax cut . she do not seem to think that they have go far enough . I wholeheartedly welcome this Budget . it a serious Budget for growth , a Budget that set the course for the long - term success of our country , a Budget for business , a Budget that reward hard work , and a Budget that reward our pensioner and senior citizen . tackle inflation have rightly be the Government ' s top priority over the past year . we have all see the horrendous effect of double - digit inflation on the cost of living , on energy price , on household and on our constituent . I believe that the Chancellor and his team deserve all our praise for the dogged way in which they have keep to the programme and deliver . they have more than deliver , because inflation have more than halve over the past year . that will make every single one of my Southend and Leigh - on - Sea constituent well off , which I wholeheartedly welcome . be conservative mean that we believe in grow the economy by give people and business the freedom to succeed . we believe that last wealth creation depend on cut taxis and reduce regulation . our way be to set business free . I do not want to get too party political at this stage in my speech , but that be not the way of the Opposition , who have traditionally be about ramp up borrow , increase debt , and , obviously , increase mortgage rate . my priority — always — be to make Southend and Leigh - on - sea safe , healthy and wealthy . I judge all legislation against those three simple test , and this autumn statement will undoubtedly make my constituent wealthy . the vast majority of Southend and Leigh - on - Sea resident work hard , work full - time , and own their own home . they deserve to keep as much of their own money as possible , so I welcome the fact that , thank to the long - term responsible decision take by the Chancellor and his team last year , we can now begin to get back to cut taxis . we be not go as far as I would like , but we be make a good start . cut taxis for 27 million work people from January , by cut the main rate of national insurance contribution from 12 % to 10 % , be a great start . it mean that the average person in Southend West and Leigh - on - Sea , earn an average of only £ 36 , 500 a year , will see an almost immediate tax cut of £ 480 per person . if it be a family with two earner , as most of they be , they will see a tax cut of £ 960 per year — nearly £ 1 , 000 a year , start from January . a senior nurse at Southend hospital will be well off by £ 600 a year , and the average police officer will be well off by £ 630 a year . I welcome put that money back into the pocket of my hard - work constituent , because we on the conservative Benches know that employment be the long - term route out of poverty . I be delighted that the welfare reform in the autumn statement will cut the number of people in this country who be sign off work on benefit , to ensure that their potential be not waste in the long term . make a concerted effort to help people back into work be not nasty : it be responsible , compassionate , and ultimately care . I also welcome the support for small business in the statement . over 98 % of business in Southend be micro or small business ; Southend be a city of entrepreneur , and I be very proud of they . as such , I welcome the extension of the 75 % business rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure until 2025 and the decision to freeze the small business multipli , which will be a huge benefit to business in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea . have be self - employ for many year , I also welcome the support we be give to the self - employ by cut class 2 national insurance contribution from April 2024 completely . again , we be put more money into the pocket of the hard - work . permanent full expensing will mean the big business tax cut in modern british history . again , it be clear what side conservative member be on : we be on the side of business , the job creator , and those who be work hard . I also welcome the fact that fuel duty will remain frozen , maintain the 5p reduction introduce last year . some 80 % of Southend household have at least one car or van — significantly high than the national average — and 40 % of my employ constituent drive to work , so be a motorist be not a dirty word in Essex . we enjoy our car and be proud of they , and of white van man . let I say this loud and clear : there will be no ultra low emission zone in Essex . Kremlin Khan can keep his communist measure in London ; we will not have they in Southend . we must also look after our pensioner and the poor in society . there be nearly 18 , 000 pensioner in Southend West , and we must do the right thing by they . as such , I welcome the fact that the Chancellor have reaffirm his commitment to the pension triple lock and pension credit . I thank he and his team for listen to the many representation from Conservative Members to keep that triple lock , which will rise in April 2024 by 8 . 5 % . that be go to mean an extra £ 70 a month for my pensioner — nearly £ 900 a year . more importantly , I welcome the fact that this Government be position the UK to be a global leader in the industry of the future . we have a revolution in banking when I start my career in the City , and it have create a long - term tax take on which we all depend in part today . create the industry of the future be an investment in high - pay job and in the tax take that we will all be rely on as we get old . last year , we become the third trillion - dollar tech economy in the world ; our tech sector be now double the size of Germany ' s and three time that of France . our life science sector be the big in Europe . offshore wind have be mention ; we do more offshore wind than any other country in Europe . we be now Europe ' s big film and tv production centre . those success be all investment in our future , and they be not quick fix — they be not thing that just happen . they be due to long - term strategic decision , lay the foundation for future success . it be because of these long - term strategic decision that we have grow fast since 2010 than France , Germany , Italy , Spain , Austria , Finland , the Netherlands and Japan . in fact , I think the Chancellor even mention a few more country in his statement . I would say that what be happen nationally be reflect in Southend . I be sorry that my hon . friend the Member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) , who have join the Treasury team , be no long in his place because he will know , from attend our trade summit in September , that Southend be not just a historic , successful , scenic seaside city but that it have a grow life science sector , with world lead business such as Olympus KeyMed and ESSLAB , to name but two . in fact , the Thames estuary , back by the Government , have be name the UK ' s no . 1 growth area , with the potential to create 1 . 3 million job and add £ 190 billion to the nation ' s economy by 2050 . I would welcome — and I continue to encourage the Chancellor to look at this — the creation of new investment zone , in particular focus on new city . the Chancellor recently say , " don ' t bet against Britain — it ' s be try before and it never work . " I would say , " don ' t bet against Southend either " , and certainly not against the mighty Southend United , as the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , who be not in his place , know only too well . the other area I want to touch on be apprenticeship . on skill , business - lead local skill improvement plan have be a big success , particularly in Essex , where we have an excellent one run by the Essex chamber of commerce . however , we do need the Government to commit to long - term funding beyond the current 2025 cut - off point to truly embed they into the skill landscape , and I would like to continue that conversation with the Treasury team . of course , apprenticeship offer a chance for people to earn while they learn and gain industry experience , and I welcome the fact that we be commit a furth £ 50 million to a two - year apprenticeship pilot to explore new way to stimulate training in growth sector . however , at the same time , the apprenticeship levy do need to be reform . apprenticeship be not always the good solution to all training need . I have a brilliant college in Southend , the South Essex College , and I have hear many time that great flexibility be need in the type of training for which the levy can be use . many firm need short , more modular training to enable individual to upskill quickly . I hope that the Government will look at allow a percentage of the apprenticeship levy to be use on other form of accredited training offer by approve provider . to conclude , I welcome the autumn statement . the measure contain in it be good for my constituent in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea . I believe they be good for the country , and I look forward to support they at the beginning of next week . rise — Order . I be try not to put a time limit on speech , but as member can see , we have 10 speaker and 100 minute leave , which roughly equate to 10 minute each . if member do not go wildly over that , we can get everybody in and with equal time . thank you for your guidance , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I will try to be brief . the first point I want to make be that the Chancellor and the Chief Secretary , who speak at the beginning of this debate , seem to have omit certain important fact . I do not want to suggest that they deliberately mislead the House — that would be totally inappropriate — but perhaps they have memory problem , so I will try to assist those on the Government Front Bench with some thing that seem to have be forget , but be quite important . first , right hon . and hon . member on the other side have suggest that Labour have a problem with borrowing , but look at the figure . since 2010 , the Government have borrow £ 1 . 5 trillion , and they seem to be head towards borrowing of £ 3 trillion , an increase of 28 % of gdp since Labour leave office : they be the borrower . look around : where have the money go ? our service have collapse in many case , include school , hospital and the police force . our people be live in increasingly difficult time . there be an increase in poverty and the necessity to use food bank . our growth be more or less static . okay , there be a small percentage increase , but over the medium term we be not look at any growth at all . where have all this money and all this borrowing go ? it have be spend by a profligate Government who do not have any sense of the country ' s priority , and that worry I . one section of the population have do well — the big corporation and the wealthy — and I might return to that if I have time . the Government forget to mention that the OBR have say that the plan publish today require £ 19 billion worth of expenditure to maintain our public service , but the Government have provide only £ 4 billion . a spokesperson for one of the large well - know think - tank have say that the cut that the Government be propose be " completely implausible " . I look at the figure . school be look at a cut in real term . there be no attempt to match inflation . the Government be go to reduce the amount of money go into school . how will those cut be make ? service , after 13 year , be almost beyond repair without a new government . the Government seem also to have forget that the OBR have say that work people be face the bad cut in living standard since record begin . that be shocking , when we reflect on the level of difficulty that we see in our constituency . the other thing that the Government seem to have forget , while they have be claim that inflation be go in the right direction , be that inflation as a whole be one figure , but the cost of food be increase by 10 % . I look at the figure to see where we be with food poverty . the bottom four decile — that is , two fifth of the population — spend more than 40 % of their total household income on food and housing . food price go up be drive people far and far into destitution and poverty . all those fact seem to have be forget by those on the Government Front Bench . I will not speak for too long , but I will make a couple of other point . minister have say that this be a Budget for work people . I represent large number of work people — we all do , I guess — and the average salary or income in my constituency be £ 29 , 200 , which be way below the national average . with wage increase need to match food inflation , I calculate the result of today ' s announcement for people on £ 29 , 200 . the amount of income tax they pay will increase by £ 456 , because the Government have not increase the threshold . that be £ 9 a week . okay , the Chancellor announce a reduction in national insurance of 2p , but that will still leave people in my constituency on the average salary more than £ 2 a week bad off . what the Government pretend they be give with one hand with a cut to national insurance be then take with the other hand , as they have not increase the threshold . effectively , people be fall far into poverty . the people I represent and the people of Britain as a whole be not fool . we might see tomorrow ' s right - wing newspaper bellow out a great triumph for the Conservative Government , but people will look at their pay packet , and they will see that the Treasury be still take £ 100 more than it would have have threshold change . that be an unfortunate situation to be in . it be what the economist call fiscal drag , and it be estimate that next year alone , the Treasury will take back £ 8 billion from work people , which be £ 270 a person a week . the faulty memory of Government Ministers — let we put it no strong — have result in a rather rosy picture of what will happen to our country , but the people will see what have happen to their family , their household and their neighbour , and they will understand that this Government be simply for the rich rather than for the rest of society . I return to inflation . the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) , who be not in his seat , talk about how we should explain inflation and say it be produce purely by external force . of course , external force have make a difference . but I have cover 40 separate financial statement since I be first elect 28 year ago , and I remember sit here and see the face of Conservative Members when the Budget be introduce — they start off rosy and finish up pale , even white and ashen — but what do they do ? they vote for it — all of they , I think . we know what the consequence have be since . be there another option for the Government to try to protect work people ? I think there be . Spain , for example , with the same spending pressure from oil cost , harvest , the war and so on , have manage to keep inflation down to 2 % while ours be roar away at up to 11 % . what do Spain do ? it remove vat from basic foodstuff , capped price , make payment to household , and reduce vat on electricity and gas . the thing be , we leave the European Union in part because we supposedly want to be free to adjust our vat rate , but we have do none of those thing , really . we let inflation rip . my final point — again , this be not mention in the statement — be about the asymmetric way we deal with income . as we have hear , we tax earning from work to a significant amount — part of that be just to pay for the debt that we have incur while this lot have be in government — so someone who earn £ 50 , 000 will receive £ 38 , 400 after tax and national insurance . someone who earn £ 50 , 000 from dividend will take home another £ 8 , 000 and receive £ 46 , 250 . if we be a Parliament for work people — one that value work and labour as a way of contribute to our society — we would not tax work more heavily than income from wealth . I will leave the House with that point . there be money in our society that could be use for public service and to help work people , which the Government pretend they be try to do but have fail to do . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for let I catch your eye in the debate . I be delighted to follow the hon . member for Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) . a long time ago , we be pair — most hon . member in the Chamber will have forget that we have an official pairing system — which I be afraid date he and I . many interesting point have be make , but one of the most interesting thing I have hear be the number of Opposition Members who have be complain about the level of the tax burden . I will assume that when they produce their general election manifesto , each will say that they will reduce the burden of tax on the people of this country . I will bet you a bottle of something nice , Mr Deputy Speaker , that when the Labour party manifesto come out , we will see a high fiscal burden on the people of this country than there would be under a Conservative Government . the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) be dead right , and reinforce the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , that fiscal drag be one of the main reason why the tax burden have go up so much . the top rate of tax come in at just £ 50 , 270 and , as the hon . Lady make clear in her speech , progressively over the year , an increase number of people will fall into that . quite large number of constituent who be work hard on fairly modest wage — medium - pay police , medium - pay teacher and medium - pay people in the health service — will suddenly be thrust into the top rate of tax . as my right hon . Friend say , people know how to spend their own money far well than the state do . we want a progressive look at that to see what can be do , perhaps in the Budget . this autumn statement will be remember for two key event . one be full expensing make permanent , at a cost £ 11 billion — a big relief announce today . the second one , for individual , be the cut in class 2 and class 4 national insurance , amount to £ 10 billion . those be two big measure . I warmly welcome the measure to boost growth , employment , productivity and , above all , investment . boost investment will help the long - stand productivity problem in this country . there be measure to boost growth , reduce debt and , above all , see inflation come down in the way that it have . inflation be a tax on every single person in this country , every business and the public sector . in short , it be very damaging to the economy as a whole , and it be good to see it come down from over 11 % to just under 5 % in a year . we look forward to the Chancellor ' s prediction of it come down to 2 . 8 % next year . even well , by the end of next year or the beginning of 2025 , it may come down to the Bank of England ' s target level of 2 % . that be a good thing to happen to the economy . what have we do in this autumn statement ? we have cut taxis for 27 million work people from January , by reduce the rate of national insurance contribution . we have cut and simplify tax for 2 million self - employ — I warmly welcome that , as I have a lot of self - employ people in my constituency . we have cut business rate , by freeze the small business multiplier yet again , save the average shop £ 1 , 650 . that will benefit a lot of shop in my small town in the Cotswolds . as I say , we have increase the national living wage to £ 11 . 44 an hour , up from about £ 5 . 50 when we take power in 2010 . that be a terrific achievement and will benefit 2 . 7 million worker . one measure that will help in the Cotswolds be increase the local housing allowance , because rent be high , and the difference between housing benefit and what people have to pay in the market be large . have an elderly population , I be delighted that the Government intend to keep their promise on the triple lock . I be delighted to follow my Chair on the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) . she recount in her wise speech a lot of measure that we have hear in Committee hearing , which she and I attend diligently twice a week — a terrific workload . I absolutely agree with she on skill , as other have mention . time after time in our hearing we have hear about skill shortage in certain sector — IT programmer , digital collection , project manager and complex procurer — hamper the public sector in carry out particularly big project . I be delighted , therefore , by what the Chancellor say today about how our youngster ' level of education have increase so much within the G7 . I have a good visit the other day to see the act deputy head of Cirencester College . his be one of the lead college in the country for the Government ' s new t - level . he now teach 13 , up from 10 . his student number be full to the gunwale at 3 , 300 , and he can not take any more unless he have new building . it may interest the House that he warmly welcome the Government ' s new proposal on advanced british standard , because the combination of vocational and technical training produce more rounded pupil who go on to do well at university . the Government have some imaginative idea in education , and I know that my teacher in the Cotswolds will warmly welcome the record resource go into our school through the statement . there be one thing miss in the autumn statement and I be sorry but I be go to detain the House for a little while on it , because it be so important . I will go through it in a little detail . I ask the Chancellor why tourist tax measure be not include in the autumn statement . on leave the EU , Britain have the chance to become the only european country where 450 million EU resident could shop tax free . I warmly welcome the newly appoint Minister on the Front Bench , the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin and Harpenden ( Bim Afolami ) . I think he would agree with I on this . if he do , let we get on and do something about it , because business believe that this new market could be worth an estimate £ 10 billion in two year . at the time of leave the EU , the Treasury consider the option of extend tax - free shopping to EU visitor but decide it would cost too much . Britain end the exist tax - free shopping not only for EU visitor , but for shopper from around the world . that have consequence . by end tax - free shopping for non - EU visitor , Britain be lose out on a multibillion - pound market where it be by far the lead destination in Europe for tax - free shopping . in 2019 , Britain account for 45 % of all tax - free shopping do in France , Italy , Spain and Britain combine , but it have miss out on this potentially huge new shopping - lead tourist market which only Britain could have benefit from because we be the country that have leave the EU . let we look at the datum on the opportunity for Britain if the Government have choose to extend tax - free shopping to EU visitor and visitor from around the world . we be now see something of the impact of allow british visitor to the EU to shop tax free : our people go to the EU and shopping tax free , which they do in abundance . in the first full year of travel , in 2022 , british shopper spend around £ 500 million on tax - free shopping in the EU . this year , the figure be estimate to double , so that our people be go out and benefit EU country potentially to the tune of £ 1 billion . the Association of International Retail have make a very rough estimate , from the behaviour of british tax - free shopper , of what could happen be Britain to offer tax - free shopping to EU visitor . the EU have six time more people than Britain , so if that level be replicate by the EU shopper we allow to shop tax free in this country , the £ 1 billion of tax - free shopping that our people do in Europe could be turn into up to £ 6 billion . the most recent forecasting report be truly staggering and I ask my hon . friend on the Front Bench to listen to they . the Centre for Economics and Business Research build on a previous report by the respect Oxford Economics . the two report forecast that introduce tax - free shopping would boost visitor number by between 1 . 6 million and 1 . 7 million , increase spending by between £ 1 . 7 billion and £ 2 . 8 billion , and increase gdp by between £ 4 . 1 billion and £ 9 . 1 billion annually . I can not understand why the Treasury will not consider this measure . the difference between the two forecast be mainly due to timing , with the Oxford Economics study release in October 2022 and the CEBR study publish a little later , in July 2023 . when the Government be look for growth measure , why have the Treasury dismiss this opportunity so quickly , without any comprehensive cost - benefit analysis ? minister have tell we time after time that the Treasury wrongly assume — those be my word — that tax - free shopping produce little or no behavioural change by international traveller , either in choose to come to the UK or their spending level . that be just so counterintuitive it be unbelievable . the treasure forecast a £ 2 billion cost in refund vat , with little or no benefit in term of additional number or spending — again , completely counterintuitive . the Treasury constantly repeat the claim that evidence show that tax - free shopping be not a significant reason for people to come to this country , but the actual figure show that that be complete nonsense . out there in the market , retail level in London , for instance , be roughly back where they be in 2019 , before the pandemic , while in other european centre , such as Paris and Madrid , they be up by 300 % and 200 % respectively . what be also happen be that the high spender , people from America , the middle east and China , be not come here to do their high - level shopping , to the disbenefit of the high - level retailer . Burberry , for example , be shift its investment away from the UK and on to the continent . those be some of the thing that be happen out there , and they be not of benefit to we . why , then , be the OBR not ask to look at extend tax - free shopping to the EU ? why be it not ask to assess the policy until after the decision have be make ? this mean that it have no remit to assess the forecast of EU spending on the basis of which the decision be make . it strike I as entirely sensible to call for an independent review of that decision , because the evidence be now undermine the Treasury ' s forecast in a big way , and because those particular forecast be never assess by the OBR . I be watch you very carefully , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I will wind up my speech now . let I just repeat what I say in my question to the Chancellor . our citizen benefit european and other country by shopping duty free abroad , but we do not extend the same facility to shopper who want to spend a lot of money in this country . I implore Treasury Ministers to commission an independent report as soon as possible to establish whether what a number of large business be say — do not just take it from I — be true , because we in this country could be lose out in a big way . rise — order . we have eight more speaker , so there be more pressure than I think . I be afraid that member have not be stick to the advisory guidance of speak for only 10 minute , so I will now impose a nine - minute limit to aid colleague in the length of their speech . let I say first of all that I welcome the Chancellor ' s statement . it be good to see that , at long last , the light have come on and he have realise that , " you can not tax your way to growth , " and that some of the wrong policy that be follow by he , and by the Prime Minister when he be in that post , be now be reverse . all the economic evidence show that the more you tax people the less growth you will have , and the more you tax business the less money you will have to invest , and therefore you will have low level of growth . I know that a lot of people have spend a lot of time criticise the Chancellor today , but I be pleased that a sinner have come to repentance . there should be great rejoice about the fact that this Damascus road experience in the Treasury be now go to bear some fruit in our country . the model contain in many study conduct by , for instance , the Cardiff macroeconomic research group , the Centre for Brexit Policy , and the Growth Foundation have already show that a low - tax economy can benefit in term of growth , which then help to increase tax revenue , reduce debt and finance public service . it be a virtuous circle . there be some measure that I particularly welcome , include some of the tax change . it be good to see a reduction in national insurance contribution , especially at a time when the OBR be forecast that GDP growth per head will rise by only 0 . 7 % and inflation will rise by 5 . 1 % . while those figure show that the cost of living problem will continue for ordinary individual , it be good for they to have some of their own money to keep or spend , enable they to pay those high price . I also welcome the corporation tax allowance . again , this be target not just to give company profit to distribute to shareholder but , more importantly , to incentivise they to invest . that target way of reduce corporation tax be important . I also welcome the business rate commitment , although I hope that the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have pay close attention to what have be say about the importance of keep business rate low , because one of the suggestion be make around Northern Ireland at present be that , as he have some responsibility for bring budget forward due to the Executive not be in operation , business rate might be one of the area where he could save some money . I hope we do not have a policy of the Government in London say that reduce business rate be important while the Minister in Northern Ireland say , " oh well , it ' s a different situation here . " I would point out , however , that despite all these tax cut , there be tax increase come down the way for business . on green taxis , the Government have make much of want to try to reduce the cost of their net zero policy . the OBR forecast suggest that environmental taxis be go to soar to £ 20 billion , that emission trading taxis will go up by 50 % in the next year and that environmental levy will be up 100 % by 2026 . that be a burden on business , and of course the planning policy that be be introduce be simply to allow for the expensive roll - out of the grid due to net zero policy . I also want to mention the fact that there be Barnett consequential in this statement for Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales . the Barnett consequential for Northern Ireland be mean to be about £ 185 million , but none of that be likely to be spend in Northern Ireland even though these measure be design to promote growth and help to expand the economy . they will be take back . we know for certain that some will be take back by the Treasury to repay the overspend that occur as a result of the incompetence of the Sinn F é in Finance Minister who oversee a budget overspend in Northern Ireland . this be happen in a week when Northern Ireland have be deny money from the levelling - up fund as well . I hope that the Chancellor will listen to the argument from Northern Ireland and from the Fiscal Council that , despite the claim be make , Northern Ireland be actually underfunde in relation to Scotland and Wales , because need be not take into account . on top of that , when money be allocate in statement such as these , it be not even make available in Northern Ireland . the Government can not ignore this issue if they want to bring up the level of growth in Northern Ireland . I welcome the fact that the Government be go to encourage people to get into work . that should not be regard as some kind of bully tactic . it should be see as important for those people who be unemployed . whatever their reason for be unemployed , they will be encourage to get back into work and make a contribution , and of course raise their own self - esteem as well . we also welcome the triple lock on pension . when we have some influence in this House , we make it a condition of work with the Government that the triple lock be maintain , and I be glad that that have continue to be the case , especially at a time when the cost of living be increase so much . pensioner on fix income require the support that the triple lock be provide . I welcome the fact that the Government be now turn around , and I look forward to more tax reduction . as other member have point out , people have be drag into a high tax rate as their wage have go up , and some find that it be no long worth their while work . let we take a single parent on a £ 50 , 000 income who need to pay for childcare if they want to go out to work . some find that , by the time they have pay their childcare cost , their marginal rate of taxation be nearly 68 % . if we be look for a supply - side measure , there be one . we could release a lot of skilled people into the workforce by ensure that their childcare cost do not prohibit they from work . only time will tell , but I hope that the measure take today will have the impact that the Government hope they will have , because that will be good for the economy , for individual and for public service . rise — Order . I be go to be very generous and see what happen if I put the time limit back up to 10 minute , although I may have to reduce it again . you tempt I in the wrong direction , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure that , in a few minute , those on the Government Front Bench will wish that I have have few minute . it be a great pleasure to follow the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) . he always speak a lot of sense in the House , and I listen with interest to what he say . it be also a pleasure to welcome the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin and Harpenden ( Bim Afolami ) , to his place . I be sure he will do a fantastic job in the Treasury , as will the rest of the team . I congratulate the Chancellor , because at the start of this debate the opposition be struggle to have anything to say about what be in his statement . they talk about thing that the Chancellor be not do , and then they try desperately not to sound too enthusiastic about the thing that he be do . that be part of the success of the Chancellor ' s statement . I therefore congratulate he on make a reasonable and good start , but we have a very long way to go to get back to conservative principle in public financing . I want to draw attention to three chart that the Institute for Fiscal Studies prepare . the first show public spending increase in real term , go back all the way to 1985 - 86 . as one get old , one like look at long - term trend in thing . the chart show that in this Parliament there be a significant increase in public expenditure in two fiscal year . as Ministers have say , those be cause by exceptional item : the covid response and the consequence of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . those one - off increase should have be follow by significant real reduction in public expenditure , to get it back to where it be . if we have real increase , we be then at a high level , and we get back to where we be before the one - off only if we have real reduction . there be nothing in the announcement today that indicate that the Government have get to grip with that essential point about public spending . the second chart from the IFS look at tax rise across Parliaments . I do not want to get into the nitty - gritty , although it be true that , at the moment , this be the large tax - raise Parliament of any , and that will be extremely difficult for I to explain to my constituent , but if we look over the long term , four of the six Parliaments from 1970 to 1997 be tax - cut Parliaments , and only two be tax - increase . of the seven Parliaments since 1997 , five have increase taxis and only two have reduce they . we have a political - class problem : whichever party be in power , we be biased towards increase the burden on taxpayer to increase the state . that be not a conservative approach to the economy . thirdly , the IFS look at the proportion of taxpayer now capture in the high and additional rate . lot of sensible word have be say by member in all part of the House about threshold and the drag . when this rate be bring in , 4 % of adult pay that high rate . with measure not reverse today — it be important that we say to the Treasury , " you do not reverse this today " — that number will rise to 16 % by 2027 - 28 . that be not 16 % of taxpayer , but 16 % of all adult and so it include people who be not work and it include pensioner . the actual number will be nearly one in four taxpayer pay the high rate of tax . that be not a conservative way to run the economy . there be some specific hope in what the Government have put in . I particularly welcome some of the measure , include those set out in paragraph 5 . 95 , 5 . 96 and 5 . 97 in the Green Book , which form part of the Chancellor ' s 110 measure . they seek to strengthen economic regulation and impose , or introduce , a growth duty on Ofwat , Ofcom and Ofgem . those important measure will stimulate growth , but my point would be : be that it ? regulator cover 25 % of the productive part of our economy . member in all part of the House have point out numerous time the failure of our regulator to manage their sector effectively , be it water or energy . what on earth be the Government do to make regulator make more effort to stimulate growth ? I ask the regulator , please , not only to stick with current effort but to do more of what they can . I know that my hon . friend the Economic Secretary feel similarly . the Financial Secretary be not here , but he have responsibility for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . the Green Book contain an interesting item at paragraph 5 . 57 , which be heroically call : " investment in HMRC debt management capability " . I have a background in venture capital and this measure , for £ 163 million , promise an annual return of more than £ 1 billion . we put £ 163 million of extra resource into HMRC to chase on this issue and we get £ 1 billion back , accord to the Government ' s number . how do that happen ? it be because this measure " will allow HMRC to well distinguish between those who can afford to settle their tax debt , but choose not to , from those who be temporarily unable to pay and need support . " that be a massive extension of the role and responsibility of HMRC into the personal finance or the corporate finance of small business . clearly , that may be a good measure , whereby we can close the tax gap . I worry , however , that HMRC be extend itself a little too far and not focus on the bread and butter issue , such as pick up the phone and answer the inquiry of taxpayer day to day . the Chancellor be right to introduce productivity target for the public , as it be clear that since the pandemic the private sector have roar ahead with productivity improvement and the public sector have do absolutely nothing to improve productivity . but why go for 0 . 5 % ? what institution can not achieve more than a 0 . 5 % improvement in productivity year on year ? the Chancellor should look at strengthen that target . while he be at it , why do he not go through all the capital project that do not have a positive benefit - to - cost ratio , on proper discount cash - flow term , and cancel the lot of they ? if they be go to waste public money , let we not spend the public money in the first place . unlike some Opposition Members , I welcome the triple lock and the living wage increase . those long - term conservative policy have be put in place and year on year they have do so much to take work people and many pensioner out of poverty . those measure be expensive for the state — of course , we need to understand that — but they be crucial part of make our society more equal . I have one point to raise : I do not think anyone in this House be confident about introduce a regional living wage , as there be lot of problem with that . however , we must note that the living wage be rise to £ 11 . 44 and that be nearly 80 % of median wage in Wales . there become an issue in certain region as to whether this very strong push on the national living wage will have a distributional effect on unemployment . although I may not sound it , I be pleased that the Chancellor have announce these measure . it be clear we live in a world where forecaster now have the whip hand — how on earth we get here , I do not know . one year there be no headroom , but then they spin the forecast around and a year later there be . who know where this will end ? whatever that headroom have be , the Chancellor have point the ship of state in the right direction and I wish he full speed ahead . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) . I understand the point he make about taxation . there have to be limit on how we tax people , family , business and so on , but the position we be in today underscore the need to deliver sustainable economic growth , because that will deliver the tax receipt that allow we to invest in our public service . the autumn statement be clearly frame with the next UK election in mind . while some of the measure be welcome — I particularly welcome the announcement of the reallocation of the Inverness and Highland city region deal , allow £ 20 million in funding for the Corran ferry in my constituency , which will be well receive by the community in the Ardnamurchan peninsula and other — overall the autumn statement be a miss opportunity to deal with the structural weakness in the UK economy , while recognise the pressure feel from the cost of living crisis . let we reflect on the headroom refer to by the hon . member for North East Bedfordshire . in large measure , that have be cause by the inflationary aspect on taxation receipt . much of the gloss of the headline tax cut will wash away when people realise the harsh reality : inflation will erode the fantasy that the Chancellor be make folk well off , and , as have hear , fiscal drag be real issue . while much of the focus be on the short term , where be the vision to sustainably grow the economy for the long term ? interestingly , when we look at the OBR book , we find that business investment be forecast to fall from 10 . 9 % of gdp this year to 9 . 7 % by 2029 . the illusion that we will see an explosion of investment growth be not bear out by the analysis of the Office for Budget Responsibility . we can debate the source of the pressure on public finance , but absence of growth fundamentally cap the growth in tax receipt that would allow we to invest in infrastructure and our public service , and ultimately pay down our accumulate debt through the delivery of growth . the harsh reality be that the United Kingdom be fall down the league table for investment and growth , which affect all of we here and be all too apparent to all our constituent and community . let we look at the OBR forecast : GDP growth of 0 . 6 % for this year , 0 . 7 % for next year and 1 . 4 % for the year after . that be an average of 1 . 4 % over the six - year period forecast . I do not know how the Chancellor classify a high - growth economy — but , my goodness , this be not it . it be a fantasy if those on the Tory Benches believe that this autumn statement deliver high and sustainable growth ; quite simply , it do not . by comparison , let we look at the International Monetary Fund forecast for the US : growth of 1 . 6 % this year , 1 . 1 % next year and 1 . 8 % the year after , and an economy that have outpace the UK on average by 1 % a year over the last decade . that be the reality of how the UK have fall behind over the period of Tory Governments since 2010 . the UK have fail on growth since the financial crisis and , on today ' s forecast , the UK will continue to fail on growth . to quote the phrase to the Chancellor : " it ' s the economy , stupid " . let we look at the reality of policy failure in broken Britain . the Resolution Foundation suggest that the current parliamentary term be on track to be the bad for living standard since at least the 1950 . the OBR suggest that real wage will only get back to the 1998 level in 2028 : two decade of no growth in real wage — yet you wouldn ' t believe any of that when you hear the b ù rach come from the Tory Benches . why do they not just admit that over the course of their administration — and thank goodness it be come to an end — people have get poor ? we can talk about the tax burden and we can talk about the investment they have trumpet , but the harsh reality be that what we have see be a massive , massive mismanagement of the economy . I ask colleague across the House to dwell on that , and the Chancellor and his Treasury team to accept the failure of financial management that have result in such poor outcome . my goodness , what a disgrace . with our debt and taxation burden , people have get poor . those on the Government Benches should look at themselves in the mirror and at what they have preside over . it be not just a failure of leadership and management in this parliamentary term ; the problem run much deep . in particular , we have be stick with a low - growth economy since the financial crisis of 2008 . low growth , low investment and low productivity growth lead to that lose decade and that squeeze on living standard . when we think back to the period post the financial crisis , the only game in town be quantitative easing ; much of it be require , but there be two failure . the complete misalignment between monetary and fiscal policy for much of the period mean that the circumstance to create sustainable economic growth could not be deliver . the failure of that lie at the door of this Tory Government . then the continue printing of money through the QE scheme be one , but not the only , cause of the increase in inflation that we have see . the Government say that they be not responsible for the increase in inflation to 11 . 1 % — of course recognise the independence of the Bank of England , but let we not kid ourselves about the alignment that take place — but much of that increase in inflation be a failure of policy , in particular a failure of policy at the time of covid . let we accept some responsibility where it be necessary to do so . the Government have some cheek congratulate themselves on the decline in inflation when the increase in the first place be drive by policy failure . although the growth in inflation be fall , let we please not forget that it be hurt ordinary folk . we know about the continue increase in food price , the cost of energy , and the painful choice that people be have to make . the lack of direct support to counteract all that be hit home for million of folk who be struggle to make end meet . tomorrow the energy cap will be announce , and it be expect to increase from £ 1 , 800 to £ 1 , 900 . that be the reality of what be happen to people — that increase in cost and the impact on consumer . of course , there be also the fact that the Bank of England be warn that interest rate will remain high , and million will face the impact of rise mortgage cost yet to come . and let we remember that the international market attach a risk premium to the UK ; our interest rate will remain high for long than our international counterpart , and that have be the case for a while now . what we see with the tax cut that be be trumpet today be that our UK economy be very much base on a trade and current account deficit . what happen in the end be that the currency take the hit and investor say they want a premium to hold UK asset . again , that be the failure of long - term planning for the UK economy — not just the disastrous Budget last year , but the penalty of be in the UK , and for we in Scotland of be in broken Britain . let I return to the future and to the question about vision and the sort of economy that the UK be . fundamentally , the UK be a trading economy , not a manufacture economy . when we be discuss this autumn statement and the prospect for growth , we can not ignore the self - harm of Brexit or the lose growth opportunity that impact the UK to the tune of 4 % of our gdp — when we be struggle for growth , we actually inflict that self - harm on ourselves . just look at the OBR forecast for growth . where be the plan to change this ? where be the green industrial strategy ? I be delighted that the Scottish Government have be present with an industrial strategy — it be sit with the Government now — because we recognise the enormous opportunity that there be to increase our green energy output fivefold and to create , between now and 2050 , 325 , 000 job . what a contrast it be to have a Government who will make sure that we have that just transition , who will prioritise investment in net zero , and who will make sure that we tackle fuel insecurity . the Scottish Government estimate that there be 830 , 000 fuel - poor household in Scotland — a third of all our household . it be a scandal that energy - rich Scotland be pay the price for the failure of UK energy policy . it clearly demonstrate that , while we have the power in Scotland , Westminster have control — and in Scotland , we pay the price . let I wrap up . the UK Government should have reinstate the £ 400 energy bill support scheme . protect people from the cost of living crisis should have be a priority in the autumn statement . my colleague in the Scottish Government , through initiative such as the scottish child payment , be help to drive young people and family out of poverty . we understand the importance of use our capital funding to strengthen the condition for economic growth , but we be have to do that while our capital budget be be constrain and cut by the UK . that be the real - term cost to Scotland of be hold back by broken Britain — Order . I do have to pull people up if they go over . I call Maggie Throup . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure that I will be able to remain within the time you have allocate , as my voice today be a limit factor . I be delighted to contribute to today ' s debate , and I congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor on his autumn statement . after what have be a testing year steady the ship , this afternoon he lay the foundation for long - term growth , and demonstrate that Britain be again on the right track to prosperity . by take the tough decision when he do — decision that in just over year have see inflation halve , recession avoid , borrow down and unemployment remain low — my constituent can look ahead to 2024 with renew confidence . my right hon . friend ' s plan for the economy balance sensible and proportionate tax cut against the continuous threat pose by inflation . the engine of the economy — its workforce — must always be our main focus , so I particularly welcome the Government ' s new back to work plan , which will help those who be long - term sick , disabled or unemployed to look for , and crucially to stay in , work . we know that not everybody be able to work , and that be obviously take into consideration , but the new plan will provide opportunity and boost self - esteem at the same time . translate , the Latin motto of Ilkeston — one of the town that I be so proud to represent — mean " work conquer all " . by apply Ilkeston ' s principle , this Conservative Government be build on the reform introduce by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) a number of year ago when he serve as the Work and Pensions Secretary , and unlock the potential of up to 1 . 1 million people , support they to improve their life away from the benefit system and achieve whatever they want to achieve in pay employment . in a similar vein , it be estimate that the private sector alone lose over 100 million work day each year to sickness absence , greatly impact productivity and hinder wealth creation . with targeted public health measure aim at prevention , there be a clear opportunity to make a significant reduction in the number of day lose to the UK economy through sickness absence , as well as a financial saving for business and the taxpayer in term of associate cost such as long - term sick payment and benefit . I be pleased to see the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , on the Front Bench . I be sure that she will take those message back to her Department , and work with the Treasury to ensure that we get the right funding and use the right fiscal measure to move public health forward in a combined way . use the right fiscal measure be important . ahead of today ' s statement , I raise with the Chancellor remove vat from high - factor sunscreen as one such public health measure that could make a significant and immediate difference . this be an issue close to my heart , as I have a melanoma remove in 2019 . as a former Public Health Minister , I believe that tackle preventable disease must be a priority if we be to relieve the ever - increase pressure on our NHS . with 90 % of skin cancer estimate to be preventable by the use of high - factor sunscreen , this really be a fiscal measure that would work . skin cancer be estimate to cost the NHS £ 465 million every year . that do not take into account other associate cost , such as long - term benefit and the loss to the economy , which far outweigh the revenue from vat on high - factor sunscreen . remove vat on high - factor sunscreen would also put out the message to the public that the Government be do everything possible to help to prevent cancer , and make it easy for individual to protect themselves from this serious killer . I therefore urge my right hon . friend the Chancellor to look seriously again at the cross - party proposal and to work towards remove vat on high - factor sunscreen in the Budget next spring . in the autumn statement my right hon . friend have already use fiscal measure to help protect the public , and I welcome the increase in duty on hand - roll tobacco . this should act as a disincentive to smoking and help the UK realise its ambition to become smokefree by 2030 , as well as , more importantly , save life . turn to the levelling - up agenda , the Government can never claim to have truly succeed in their mission to level up the midland and the north if they fail to invest in place such as Erewash . it be therefore deeply disappointing that once again my constituency be overlook in Monday ' s announcement relate to round three of the levelling - up fund and I want to use this opportunity to make an early bid to my right hon . friend the Chancellor for the inclusion of new funding to support major infrastructure project in next year ' s Budget , to help develop scheme such as my campaign to secure an additional motorway junction to support the multimillion - pound development at New Stanton Park and relieve the already congested local road around my constituency . on the wide measure announce for the east midland , it would be remiss of I not to put in another early bid for a fair share of the benefit that will come from the east midland investment zone . Erewash have a proud tradition of manufacturing and adapt to change in market and technology over time . I be sure we can accommodate advanced manufacturing and green industry , which will help regenerate our brownfield site and contribute to the levelling - up agenda . whether of a Government ' s own making such as the economic crash which expose the " no money leave " mantra of new Labour or cause by unprecedented global event such as the covid pandemic follow by war in Europe , during time of great economic uncertainty sound conservative economic have always triumph over the reckless tax - and - spend policy of the Labour party . it be in that spirit that today ' s statement have be deliver , and the british people will prosper because of it . I concur with the commitment of the hon . member for Erewash ( Maggie Throup ) to public health measure in today ' s statement . it be fascinating , however , that when give a rare chance to make life well for million of people — people just about manage , or people not manage but really struggle — the Conservatives turn on they , as we hear today , make their life even hard . the economic success we hear about be glossy , but we be come down from last year ' s disastrous Budget . inflation have halve this year because it go so high last year , cause our constituent to have exceptionally high mortgage rate , which they be pay for day by day . borrowing be at an all - time high , just shy of 100 % of gdp , and the economy will be £ 40 billion small in 2027 than be predict in March this year . that show that the economy be still fragile and volatile , and even after 13 and a half year of this Tory Government all we have see today be money be move from welfare to the wealthy . do we wonder why people be bad off when we see such decision be make ? I believe economic policy — how we tax and spend — must focus on create a fairer society , alleviate poverty , tackle injustice and inequality and help people to be independent yet collectively contribute to the vital service we depend on across our society . public sector service hardly get a mention today , yet they be on their knee . Council , health and public service leader across the country will therefore be baffle by the decision the Chancellor make . we have see 13 and a half year squander , with poor economic productivity , poor investment in our people and planet , and increasingly poor social outcome . we have more people sick — 7 . 8 million on waiting list — more need a home and more in need , and we have 14 . 5 million people on the edge , in poverty , in debt , struggle with heating , rent and food . and of course there be no promise of additional help today . we must remember that 4 . 3 million child in York and across the country now live in poverty ; 18 % of pensioner be count the penny to get by and we have a harsh winter ahead of we , with the energy price cap due to go up tomorrow and a tough year beyond that . food price be up about 25 % on April 2022 figure , while gas price be 60 % and electricity price 40 % high , yet wage have not match that growth . in York , resident face the fourth - high rent in the country . while the fall in inflation be an important factor , because it will have an impact in the long term , none of we will ever forget how we get to where we be today . the economy need the Chancellor to do more than just talk about cut the revenue into the Treasury ; the autumn statement should have be more about redistribution and , sadly , it be lack in that — not least when the national insurance measure that he introduce will bring the great benefit to the rich people , who pay more national insurance , mean that work people continue to pay more . turn to those work people , we know that work hard really matter , and I want everyone to have the opportunity to use their skill and talent to the full and contribute to society , and in return receive just reward for their labour . however , our public service be on their knee . York Council have see £ 11 million in cut this year and £ 40 million in the last four year . York ' s school be underfunde — the 17th bad in the country — and vital service be absolutely desperate . we must understand the consequence of the cut that the Chancellor talk about , not least those to national insurance . we be work hard in York to create opportunity , with exceptional school , college and university , a Labour council , business , charity and public service . despite our call out for two and a half year for funding for BioYorkshire , which will create 4 , 000 good - quality green - collar job , the Government have not bring forward the investment long promise , alongside UK Research and Innovation . likewise , the creative sector , particularly the visual effect sector , have a real impact on my constituency , and I welcome a deep dive into that area , but why have we not see that money buy forward until now ? all we see be service cut back , underfunded , understaffed and just not work . People be paralyse by the pressure of life , suffer with mental , economic and physical stress . they be simply not cope . rent be too high and wage too low ; there be bill to pay , but no money leave and no hope . I want to make three point . first , we have no spare social housing , as I say to the Chancellor . York be one of the bad place in the country to access housing , with rent in the private rent sector the fourth high in the country . the broad market area be too broad . as a result , people in my constituency , even after receive £ 650 a month in local housing allowance , still have to pay an additional £ 983 on private rent . they can not afford to live in my city but , if they move away , it will skew the economy even more . we need the broad rental market area to be review . I urge the Minister to take that away and ensure that it happen , because it really matter for my constituent . secondly , I be sicken by paragraph 3 . 25 of the autumn statement . People at their most vulnerable do not engage with the DWP because they can not , because life be too hard for they . to introduce such punitive measure as those we have hear about from the Chancellor be a complete disgrace . it be ill - conceive , immoral and economically illiterate , because those people will end up elsewhere in our public service , create even great demand . they will end up in our NHS in desperate need , not least if the Government take away their prescription . what an utter disgrace to do that to people who be already sick and struggle . I will fight the Government every step of the way on that measure , and I trust that my party will , too . that be not how we should treat human being who be struggle and suffer . the Government should be ashamed of themselves , not least because the Chancellor then try to pitch those individual against other people who be struggle — people who come to our country for sanctuary . I could not believe that I be hear that in this House — shame . we have to change that . I trust that the Labour party will be at the forefront of that charge . on the DWP , the bedroom tax be still hurt people , sanction be still hurt people , and the two - child limit be still hurt family in my constituency , as be the benefit cap . if we reverse those measure , we would see a big number of people move from poverty into be able to have dignity in their life . surely , this place be mean to achieve that . thirdly , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s work on the basket of essential guarantee — provide every person enough money to survive on , with £ 120 a week for a single person and £ 200 for a couple — would really make a difference for people who be dependent on social security . I often hear member on the Treasury Bench ask , " how would you afford it ? " well , accord to the University of Greenwich , a wealth tax on people with an accumulate wealth of over £ 3 . 4 billion , for example , would bring in £ 70 billion . we must remember that the 50 rich family in our country own 50 % of the wealth . change be so achievable . we must think about priority . politic be about moral , justice and fairness , but we have not see that today . I know that it will not be long until we have a Labour Government , who will be here to serve , give hope , and do everything humanly and economically possible to turn thing around . we believe in fairness , honesty , justice and equality , and we will deliver they . I be afraid that I will have to take the limit down to nine minute . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . it be always easy to throw stone from the Opposition Benches , but it be slightly more difficult to be in government and make decision base on the situation before we . I will focus on one or two of the thing that directly affect Torbay . certainly , the Government need to have a clear and distinct conservative message base on our be the party of aspiration , economic growth , home ownership and people keep more of the fruit of their labour . those be the principle that have see we win general election and reach out to a whole new group of conservative supporter , whether in 1979 , in the 1980 , or last time in 2019 , when we be lucky enough to get a majority under the leadership of Boris Johnson . it be always a privilege to serve in government , and we need to ensure that we continue to deliver for those who put their faith in we . I welcome in particular the business rate relief for tourism and hospitality . that will be of no surprise to anyone give that I represent the part of the country that we call " the english riviera " , where tourism play a large part in the community . I be pleased to join colleague in lobby for the Chancellor to extend the relief , and be pleased that he have do so . we need to think about business rate because they penalise business that need a place to do business . clearly , an online hospitality venue would not have quite the same outcome for people as be able to go somewhere to meet their friend and enjoy spend time together . hospitality innately mean have a place to get together , be part of a community and enjoy time with friend in celebration and other event . that be a very serious business , so it be something that be there . the promise to honour the triple lock will resonate strongly in Torbay among those who have work hard all their life and retire to enjoy the natural beauty of our bay . the other side of the issue be those who be of work age . certainly , the rise in the national living wage will benefit quite a number of people work in the bay , and the national insurance change be particularly welcome , enable many worker to keep more of what they earn . sadly , the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) be not in his place . I will miss he in the next Parliament , because he be stand down ; even though we disagree on some quite profound point , particularly around the Union , he be right that we should move towards more tax simplification in the long run . clearly , the issue with national insurance that those who be of state pension age do not pay it . any unification would have to preserve that part of our system , so that those who be over state pension age do not end up pay the replacement or simplified tax . however , there be many argument to be make — some of which be make very well by my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) — about how we can have not just low taxis but simple taxis , recognise that for many business , the cost can come from administer the tax as much as pay the amount that be due . we have just hear some of the debate about welfare change . it be welcome that we be go to make a difference to so many people ' s life by give they support to get back into employment , and it be right that for the DWP to expect something in return . if we listen carefully to what the Chancellor actually say , it be about engagement with the DWP . it be not a high bar to say that people should at least engage with the project and scheme that be be put in place to try to support they in get into employment , because we know that employment make a massive difference : it be the thing that lift people out of poverty and give they choice in their life , which be what all of we should aspire towards . my good and hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) be the Minister for Disabled People , and I know he be look to make sure that the balance be strike correctly between encouragement and send a clear sign that there be an expectation that the support that be be offer will be take up — that that support come with responsibility . early this week , further support to develop Torbay ' s economy be announce , in the form of an extremely welcome £ 20 million from the third round of the levelling - up fund . that bring the funding available to support Torbay ' s regeneration to a total of around £ 100 million . however , I again emphasise that this be not just about Government funding for regeneration , but make sure that private business and investor have the confidence to invest . I very much welcome the news in the last 24 hour that two large group , Willmott Dixon and another investment group , will not only be work with Torbay Council to deliver many of the government - sponsor scheme , but invest in job and housing . however , thing like planning can make such a huge difference . I welcome some of the Chancellor ' s comment , particularly around major infrastructure , because it take far too long to deliver key infrastructure in this country . I be one of those who say we should get shoot of the effective moratorium on onshore wind . in the same way , it be high time that the Scottish Government get rid of their ridiculous block on new nuclear , give the potential for energy independence and security — as well as job and prosperity — that it would bring to Scotland . overall , we need to look at cut the time between make a decision to do something and something happen . turn to housing , as I say in the debate on the King ' s Speech , we need to look again at case where local council have come forward to say they would be happy to have flexibility in some area , mostly in town centre and area that be in need of regeneration . I would , however , strike a slight note of caution about the idea of allow virtually every property to be convert into two flat . I be not necessarily sure that that would produce the good of outcome , particularly when I look at the experience in part of Torbay , such as Melville in Torquay . some property have be subdivide there , and it be safe to say that that have not produce a great standard of accommodation . there be some issue that come with that , so from what I hear today , that be an area in which I would urge the Chancellor to exercise some caution . however , I hope the statement be a sign of a Government pointing to where they may look to go far in future . other colleague have rightly raise the issue of tax threshold , not just for personal taxation but for the taxation face by business . the vat threshold be probably the most dramatically visible impact of a tax threshold . we can see guest house and small business close literally the day before they would have reach the relevant amount . they be literally stop do business because , unless they can jump up significantly in their trade , the cost would not be worthwhile . that be particularly true in the hospitality sector , for example , with business not buy large amount of product on which they could expect to reclaim the tax . we hear some speculation in the run - up to this statement about inheritance tax . I have to be clear that there be those in Torbay who would find that quite a thought and would like to be able to hand on a little more to the next generation , but I do accept the point that there be other priority for ease the burden of taxation first , not least those that affect work family . finally , it be right that productivity have be mention several time . it be what drive wage growth , drive prosperity and generate more income . clearly , there be a need to link our effort to increase productivity with a genuine labour market strategy that also cover our immigration policy . again , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham mention the need to try to link those together , because too often we find ourselves debate one day why a sector be not be invest in and then the next day argue that we should provide visa to avoid have to do so . overall , this be a welcome autumn statement . I think it show the right direction of travel towards key and core conservative principle , because we will need to have within the next year a clear message for the electorate on how our party seek to back their aspiration for they and their family , how we reward innovation and how we will be responsible with the nation finance , because those be the key to win another term in government . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) , and I fully concur with his idea on workforce planning . I be go to focus my remark on the poverty of ambition on public service in today ' s statement . we know that we have sky - high inflation and crumble school and hospital , but it be really that poverty of ambition on public service to which I want to turn . thirteen year of conservative cut to social care have leave elderly and disabled people go without the care they need , and long - promise social care reform have be repeatedly postpone . the Prime Minister three Prime Ministers ago , Mr Johnson , pledge to reform social care " once and for all " , announce a cap on lifetime care cost and a health and social care levy . the levy be scrap by the ex - Chancellor in 2022 and the cap have be delay until 2024 , but I suspect that this will also be scrap — chop and change , chop and change . follow publication of the " next step " document in April 2023 , many of the remain measure from the Government ' s White Paper on social care have be cut back or even abandon . this include halve the funding for workforce training , and this go to the point the hon . Member make . this be fund for qualification , and fund for the wellbeing of individual who need extra support to come into the workforce . there be some mention of that in today ' s statement , and I do welcome that , but we need to turn our attention to the detail on the social care workforce , because unpaid carer have be leave to pick up the piece of the Government ' s repeat failure to deal with the staffing crisis in social care , at huge cost to their own physical and mental health and to their finance . every weekend people , mainly woman , criss - cross the country to deal with old people , disabled people and child who be struggle . there just be not the care worker that there be before . over the summer I do a survey in my own constituency of social care arrangement for old people , and I be able to visit the wonderful place call the Hornsey Housing Trust . it owe its existence to one person , Margaret Hill , the sister of John Maynard Keynes . she found it in 1933 , and nurture it because she feel that " the underlying cause of much discomfort , ill - health and unhappiness in many family be the bad condition of their house " . this little history , write by Rosie Boughton , who be the former chair of the Hornsey Housing Trust , sadly outline so many of the issue we be see today . as the year of have go on , the trust have focus more and more on old folk , but this autumn statement do not really offer to fix the crisis in social care and have fail to lay out a real vision for dignity , care and quality of life for old people . I do welcome the triple lock decision , but I think the detail of some of the issue we be face in our care sector have be ignore . a Labour Government would work towards a world - class national care service . we will transform access to care with new national standard , and recruit and retain more carer through well right at work , decent standard , fair pay and proper training , with a fair pay agreement collectively negotiate across the sector as a first step towards build a national care service . the hon . member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) mention regional rate , and I just want to correct he . there be a London living rate for the London living wage — it be a genuine living wage , not the minimum wage — and he should definitely look at those rate . the hon . Lady be exactly right on that . we have to have the courage to understand that there be different pressure in labour market . as we push forward the national living wage increase , we need to take those pressure into account if we be to get the right balance for employment . as you will know with your lifetime of experience in social care and other sort of public service , Madam Deputy Speaker , the good council — I have to say they be mainly labour council — have introduce the living wage for all their contracting and subcontracting . that make an enormous difference in the local economy . I challenge every single council to try to push for more from its procurement pound . in the survey result from all the place that I visit over the summer with my wonderful staff and an ex - BBC journalist who help I to get the survey right , some 55 % feel that their quality of life have deteriorate since the pandemic . the British Red Cross research report " life after lockdown " and " lonely and leave behind " find that 41 % of UK adult feel lonely since the start of the initial lockdown . million be go a fortnight without have a meaningful conversation . the pandemic show the importance of tackle loneliness , and it be clear that the Government strategy on loneliness simply be not work . the Red Cross say that " tackle loneliness should be build into Covid - 19 recovery plan " , and : " government should ensure those most at risk of loneliness be able to access the mental health and emotional support they need to cope and recover from Covid - 19 . " these be the very people whom the Chancellor be try to address when he say that there be increase rate of worklessness in people over the age of 50 . I be sure that access to mental health service and emotional support be very much a part of that puzzle . as well as mental and physical health and wellbeing , we must also consider the impact that grief , bereavement and the economic struggle that people be face have on people ' s sense of wellbee . some 51 % of respondent to my survey say that they be unable to participate in event because they be online , and that also need to be look at , because the digital divide be real and desperately need to be address by local authority and all Departments . some 45 % say that it be hard to see their gp than before the pandemic . some 48 % say they have experience a reduction in NHS service , particularly in podiatry , chiropody and physio . those be crucial service that people need to keep mobile , which reduce the cost to the NHS and the queue of people wait for care in the NHS . before I conclude , I will make one point on the importance of primary care and that relationship with a gp . if individual be not on the internet and they go to see their gp , eight minute be not really enough . in some case , they be not even get eight minute every six month . so many people be live without see a human being day - to - day . for 13 year now , social care have lack the funding and attention that it deserve , with £ 8 billion lose from adult social care budget . in my constituency , I hear from resident have to pay thousand of pound for their care or care for a love one . there be high level of unmet or under - meet care need . the Association of Directors of Adult Social Services estimate that around 246 , 000 people be wait for a care assessment in August 2022 . the final finding from my survey be that 60 % of the people I speak to in all different sort of care setting say that they feel lonely or isolated , and 34 % rarely have visitor . the loneliness strategy simply be not work . it be have a real effect on our economy and on our old folk . I hope that can be address as this debate go forward . as the hon . Lady ' s speech be a little short , I shall allow the final speaker 10 minute — just to prove that it be not always bad to be the final speaker . you be most generous , Madam Deputy Speaker . so often I have stand here and see my time go from 10 minute to three minute , so I be grateful . we have an autumn statement that do no more than tickle our economy and do more harm than good for those in the great need . we need to see policy that support work people and hard - press family , all of whom be suffer from a cost of live crisis not of their making . we need to see measure that tackle the scourge of child poverty in particular . almost 34 % of child in my constituency live below the poverty line . in the north - east , 67 % of child in poverty be from work family . that be thousand of child go to bed hungry and miss the opportunity available to their well - off peer . every parent want the good for their child , but many be struggle . wage be too low , childcare be too expensive , decent home be unaffordable and the social security system be not properly protect and support those who rely on it . food bank use and in - work poverty have rise , and more than 4 million child be now live in poverty . the social security system should provide genuine security for all family , but cut since 2010 have push child into poverty . I believe that by reduce poverty and provide effective early help , we can also alleviate some of the pressure on family that be contribute to the rise number of child in the care system . we need to support foster and kinship carer to increase the number of secure , love home for child , tackle profiteer by private child ' s home and provide co - ordinate support for care - experience people to reduce the disadvantage they face . respond to the King ' s Speech , the interim chair of the North East Child Poverty Commission , Michele Deans , say : " the King ' s Speech speak today about build a well future for our child and grandchild , and yet completely fail to address one of the single big barrier to achieve this for the North East — unacceptably high child poverty and grow level of hardship for family right across our region . " sadly , the same can be say after today ' s statement . it be simply not good enough . more must be do to address the unacceptable position we be in with hundred of thousand of child up and down the country live below the breadline . we know that the right policy can make a difference . analysis in 2020 by the Institute for Public Policy Research show that the north - east see the big fall in child poverty of any region from 1999 to 2013 . People from all walk of life be suffer , though . Chris McDonald , who I expect to succeed I as the MP for Stockton North , be out in Wynyard , the most affluent part of my constituency , if not the north - east , and he be get a clear message : even family with good income be suffer at the hand of the Tories . some be face increase of thousand of pound on their mortgage as fix - term interest rate run out , but everyone be feel the effect of inflation , with the poor suffering most as food inflation be way high than the current headline figure . the Prime Minister claim that the Government take difficult decision to halve inflation . he have get some nerve , claim the work of the Bank of England as a policy success . Paul Johnson , the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , say that the Government ' s pledge to halve inflation be " opportunistic … give the fact that the Bank be , in January , forecast that inflation would … halve . " at the start of the year , the Prime Minister and the Chancellor promise to get the economy grow , but growth be flatten . the Bank of England have downgrade its economic forecast , and the IMF say that the UK will be the low grower in the G7 next year . in spite of that , we have a rise tax burden , and public service be on their knee , but there be little if anything for those in great need , and certainly not for those public service . job creation should have be a focus for the autumn statement . teesside be fit to burst with potential when it come to emerge energy - intensive industry and carbon capture , utilisation and storage . the job and opportunity that they could create for our area be huge , but many of the promise from the Government and the Tees Mayor remain just that — promise . sometimes , it feel that we have hear more promise than we have see job deliver . I would have like to have see the Chancellor announce a proper package of support to get our net zero cluster under way and a strategy that support business as they transition to net zero . commitment have be make , and I welcome they , but the stream of organisation that have come to talk to I about net zero , CCUS and industry all say the same thing : the lack of a proper industrial strategy and snail - pace decision making be hamper their ability to get on with their job and often win the investment need from their overseas boss . the more the Government dither and delay , the more they will hinder the UK ' s chance of lead the world on the path to net zero . the UK have lead the world in clean energy investment , and its market be mature , ambitious and ready to invest to hit net zero , but the failure to get on with the decision making be impact business confidence . as chair of the chemical industry all - party parliamentary group , I attend the Chemical Industries Association dinner last week , where its president , the director of Ineos , Tom Crotty , remind we that chemical be one of our major industry , but that we be not get our fair share of investment . he say : " the most recent figure show that in the UK , the global chemical industry invest a little over 1 % of what it invest in China , 4 % of what it invest in Europe and 4 % of what it invest in America . and the situation have significantly tip in favour of America , away from our continent . " the reason , he say , be the Biden ' s Administration ' s Inflation Reduction Act . Paul go on to say : " 12 month ago I stand here and say : where be our equivalent of the USA ' s IRA ? a piece of regulation that will see an historic down payment on deficit reduction to fight inflation , invest in domestic energy production and manufacturing , and reduce carbon emission by roughly 40 % by 2030 . " Tom plead with the UK Government to act , but the wait go on . today , the CIA have welcome some measure in the Chancellor ' s statement . no strong economy can be create without a healthy workforce . for a healthy workforce , we need a robust , 21st - century health service . for 13 year I have campaign for a new hospital for Stockton - on - Tees , which be plan but axe in 2010 under the Conservative - Lib Dem coalition Government . our area be lag behind on health inequality then , and they have get bad , not well . it be no good the Chancellor penalise sick people because they can not work , when he fail so spectacularly to properly fund our NHS . we need our good facility to support people to live healthy life , and the dedicated healthcare professional who work so hard to improve the health of our community . sadly , the same problem exist in community across our country , and there be no indication of any real change . the next Labour Government will sort it out , and have a social care service that justify the word " care " in its title . I will finish on smoking and health . the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health , of which I be a vice - chair , recently publish datum show that smoking cost public finance in England £ 21 billion in 2023 — nearly double the tobacco tax take of £ 11 billion . of that cost , £ 3 . 5 billion be accrue by the NHS and social care , but the majority be lose productivity , which reduce direct taxis and increase social security payment . analysis for the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence show that smoking cessation treatment be one of only a handful of healthcare intervention that be cost save to the NHS . in the first year , it reduce hospital admission , improve surgical outcome , improve birth outcome and be as effective at reduce anxiety and depression as anti - depressant . however , accord to the Health Service Journal , NHS England have tell trust that they can cut NHS long - term plan prevention funding , which include smoking cessation , to help balance their overstretch budget . that be the false of false economy . the solution recommend by the APPG be a " polluter pay " levy on tobacco manufacturer , which make an average 50 % profit compare with less than 10 % for UK manufacturing . I welcome the Government ' s measure to deal with smoking , but they need to go so much far . in 2015 , when the Government consult on a polluter pay tobacco levy , it be prohibit by the EU . no more . it can be do now — it may be one of the very few benefit of our leave the EU . we need to do much more than tickle our economy . we need to hit it with a sledgehammer of measure that will address our decline and well look after our people . we do not get that today . it be time for a Labour Government . listen to the Chancellor today , one would believe that the economy have turn a corner and the cost of living crisis be over . the truth be that after 13 year of economic failure , million of people be struggle to make end meet . some of the comment we have hear from the Government Benches show just how completely divorce the Government be from the reality of work people ' s life . we hear heartbreake story every single day from our constituent about how they skip meal to pay high bill , with the price of food up 30 % in the past two year , electricity up 40 % and gas price up 60 % . we hear how they be struggle with the high tax burden this country have see in 70 year . the freezing of current threshold have confirm an additional 4 million of the poor in society will now pay income tax by 2029 . we hear from constituent worry about where to find the money to pay their mortgage , to avoid have to sell their family home due to the reckless action of this Government . million continue to pay the price of the Tory mortgage penalty . work family will see an average increase of £ 220 a month in mortgage cost because of tory economic failure and 1 . 5 million household be also set to suffer as they re - mortgage their deal next year . if it be because of the Government ' s economic mismanagement that the Bank of England ' s rate be at 5 . 25 % , why be the american rate at 5 . 5 % ? I think the right hon . Gentleman be try to absolve himself of the fact that it be his former Prime Minister and Chancellor who crash the economy of this country . he just need to go to his constituent and , I tell you what , they will provide he with the answer at the next election . the OBR reveal today that household income will still be 3 . 5 % low next year in real term than before the pandemic hit . to put that in context , it be the big hit to living standard since record begin , as my hon . friend the Member for Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) neatly summarise in his speech . my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) brilliantly articulate , as she always do , the big insult to work people , which be that in return for their hard - earn contribution , their reward be crumble public service . the Conservatives ' mismanagement of the economy have leave our public service on their knee , with people unable to get hospital appointment and waiting list 7 . 8 million people long . accord to the late IMF forecast , if people have not see it , the UK will have the slow growth in the G7 next year . today , we learn that growth in the economy have be downgrade not only for next year , but for two year after that . as british people already know , the promise make today can not compensate for the damage that have already be do . the measure announce today be equivalent to hand back £ 1 for every £ 8 of the Conservatives ' tax increase in 2019 alone . the freeze in the personal allowance threshold mean that a couple on an average wage will still be £ 350 bad off per year , even after all of today ' s announcement . after 13 year of economic failure , the Chancellor be ask people to be grateful and tell they that their life will suddenly improve , despite the Government ' s continue to make they bad off . so the question be this : do people feel well off today than they do 13 year ago ? I think our constituent know the answer . before I sum up the powerful contribution to the debate that we have hear from the Labour Benches , it would be remiss of I not to welcome the hon . member for — [ interruption ] — the hon . member for Hitchin and Harpenden ( Bim Afolami ) . excuse I for forget , but he be the fourth Economic Secretary I have shadow in two year . I know he be an ambitious young man , but he will have a very hard job try to get the title of the most charismatic Economic Secretary I have shadow so far . the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) have earn that . I shall watch the new Economic Secretary to see how he perform in his job . if there be any word of wisdom he want from I , he be welcome to contact I . I hope he last long than his predecessor . I be grateful to my Labour colleague for their important contribution . my hon . friend the Members for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) and for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) rightly talk about the huge demand for social housing . private renter be pay the price of Tory failure , along with mortgage holder . my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) rightly argue that we need to go far on the consolidation of define contribution pension fund and question whether the Government be rush their reform of work capability assessment . my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) give an important speech on the complete failure of the Government to strengthen adult social care . my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) powerfully raise the plight of rise child poverty and once again raise the need for a hospital in his local area . a Labour Government will always prioritise support work people . we will deliver an ambitious plan for growth that meet the scale of the challenge that we face — to turn around the UK economy . labour will get Britain build again . we will deliver a robust industrial strategy on a statutory footing that will in turn deliver high - skilled , high - pay job across the country . we will close unfair tax loophole to ensure that we can support our school and hospital with the investment that our people be cry out for . we will scrap the non - dom tax status loophole , which cost the Exchequer £ 3 billion in revenue . that money will help we to reduce the NHS waiting list and provide free breakfast club for all child of primary school age . labour be lead the charge on unlock investment in high - growth firm . through our national wealth fund , a Labour Government will work in partnership with industry to deliver the investment that our business need to scale up and deliver growth across the economy . we will empower industry to invest , alongside our Labour Government , in the industry that be crucial to Britain ' s success , such as hydrogen , electric battery factory , wind and nuclear , and we will do so in a way that meet our fiscal rule . we will set the fund a target to ensure that for every pound that Labour put in , we leverage three time as much in private investment . that be because we believe in grow the economy . we want to raise living standard , and we will fund our public service well . the Tories have claim that they have a plan for growth , but forecast be down . they claim to be reduce debt , but it remain at record level . despite their claim to be reduce taxis , the tax burden will be the high since the war . after 13 year of failure , this government can not deliver a serious plan to address the fundamental challenge face by our constituent and the country . all they can do now be take their record to the voter , and call a general election . order . before I call the Minister , may I say how important it be for member to return to the Chamber in good time for the wind - up speech ? there be still some member who be not present . it be extremely discourteous not to get here in good time to hear from the Opposition spokesperson and the Minister , and I hope that that will be convey to those who be not present . I be delighted to bring today ' s debate on the measure in the autumn statement to a close , and also to pay tribute to my shadow , my good friend the hon . member for Hampstead and Kilburn ( Tulip Siddiq ) . I be very glad to follow in the footstep of Members as eminent and as good at this job as my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . he be excellent in his job , and I be happy to follow his example . I miss he ! Don ' t miss he ; he ' s still here . make no mistake , Madam Deputy Speaker : this be an autumn statement for growth — one that support entrepreneur , cut business tax , reward work and bring prosperity to every corner of our wonderful country , and one that the OBR say will permanently increase the size of our economy . [ interruption . ] that be what the OBR say . as my right hon . friend the Chancellor say this afternoon , the Government understand that a successful economy depend less on the decision and diktat of Ministers than on the " energy and enterprise " of its people , and that be the thrust of this autumn statement . it be about a Government take action that reduce the burden on business , while also empower people and get Great Britain grow and move again . but the context really matter . we be only able to pursue these policy now because of what the Government , under our Prime Minister , have achieve up to this point . we have bring inflation down from 11 . 1 % to 4 . 6 % , meet the Prime Minister ' s pledge , and we be on track to meet the 2 % target by the middle of 2025 . the OBR have confirm that the measure announce today will make inflation next year low than it would otherwise have be . we have achieve this while grow our economy , which be already big than it be pre - pandemic , contrary to what be often say on the Opposition Benches in debate in recent week and month . our economy have grow fast than many of our competitor since 2010 , which be when this Government first come into office . I welcome the Minister to his position . will he not acknowledge that , under the current plan , it will take until 2028 for wage to get back to their 1998 level in real term — a 20 - year absence ? that be the reality . the measure here be design to grow the economy , to make we more prosperous , to make business invest more and to cut taxis for work people , so I be confident that that prediction will not be bear out in the way that the right hon . Gentleman suggest . this autumn statement provide the foundation for the next decade of growth — not just for next year or the year after that . next year , just as a start , the economy will be 2 % high — that be worth around £ 40 billion — than be forecast only in March this year . that be a result of the action we have take today . I have be hear about what the shadow Chancellor say to the parliamentary Labour party early this week . I be tell that this be what she say , but I be happy to be intervene on if it be incorrect . she say that the next election would be a fight on the economy , a fight on fiscal responsibility , a fight on make work people well off and a fight on who would be the party to show that it back british business . this autumn statement firmly show that this Government and this party be the only choice for the british people and the british economy on these measure — [ interruption . ] I see chuntere among Opposition Front Benchers . if they and the shadow Chancellor wish to fight an election on those matter , I say bring it on . let we talk about fiscal responsibility — [ interruption . ] the opposition do not want to hear about that . this government have bring inflation down by half . debt be fall by the end of this forecast period . we have the second low debt in the G7 . we be only able to have this sort of growth Budget because of the prudence and careful measure that we have so far undertake . indeed , if I may use language that the opposition might understand , this be prudence with a purpose . let we contrast that with the record of the Labour party and Opposition Members . they be still say that , on top of everything we have hear today , they be go to borrow an extra £ 28 billion . that will lead to high debt , because they be borrow , and high inflation , which will lead to high interest rate for long . I also welcome the Minister to his position . do he not distinguish between borrow for capital investment and borrow for current expenditure ? if he do not , he have a very peculiar view of the national account . of course I understand that distinction , but that do not take away from the fact that if we be borrow , it have to be pay for . unless the Labour party can show how it be go to raise that money — [ interruption . ] look , the non - dom tax have be use about 15 time to pay for 15 different thing ; that be not go to cut it . unless the Labour party can say how it be go to pay for that extra £ 28 billion , it be not fiscally responsible . so on that measure , I say bring it on . let we look at whether work people will be well off as a result of this autumn statement . my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Dr Fox ) talk about the need to responsibly bring down taxis for work people , and that be what we have do . the cut in the national insurance rate , worth £ 450 to the average worker , will benefit 29 million people . that matter to my constituent and to all the constituent we represent in this House . that be what this autumn statement deliver . the national living wage be up 30 % in real term — 30 % after inflation — in this Parliament . again , that be what this autumn statement deliver . as a result of the measure on the local housing allowance , 1 . 6 million of the most vulnerable household in this country be all go to get an extra £ 800 . contrast that with the record of the Labour party . do not let they fool you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; Labour Members do not believe in tax cut . they do not believe in low tax . they be try to pretend that they do , but we all know that they do not . they believe — and it be a reasonable , principle position — in ever great , ever expand Government control , debt and tax . that be their position . those of we on this side of the House and this Government have a different philosophy and a different policy . we believe in back british business . we believe in back the british people . we believe in cut taxis for work people . we face a once - in - a - lifetime pandemic early in the Parliament , and we spend over £ 450 billion support the life , job and health of our constituent . that have lead to an increase in our tax burden . but that be why this autumn statement be so important — because we be turn the corner . will the Minister give way ? I will not . member may wonder how we be able to cut taxis and bring our debt down at the same time in a fiscally responsible way . we be able to do it because we back british business . there be over 100 growth measure in this autumn statement . the policy of full expensing mean that for every pound that our business be able to invest , they will get 25p off their tax bill . there be measure to protect small business on business rate ; on R & D tax credit , we be reduce the rate at which the credit be tax from 25 % to 19 % ; and we have introduce investment zone across huge swathe of our country . a few year ago , I co - author with the Chief Secretary to the Treasury a policy on accelerator zone . these have be idea on this side of the House for a long time , and this autumn statement put they into practice . my good friend and constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , know that I share his view that we need to make sure that regulator adhere to the need to focus on growth and competitiveness . it would be remiss of I not to address some of the comment make during the debate . the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , address many point . I listen carefully to her concern about the welfare measure , which be share by the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) . I say gently to they both that what we be try to do with the back to work plan and reform of the work capability assessment be to support the most vulnerable while make sure that taxpayer ' money be use sensibly and that only those who need it be give that support . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who be a good friend , focus in her excellent speech on the need for a low - tax economy . she say that she would like to see some more " cheeky measure " — her word , not mine — to get personal tax down . I assure she that I will constantly listen to she and take her advice . give her great experience , I be sure other on the Treasury Bench will do so too . this country be full of potential , with the most innovative industry in Europe and the good mind in the world . with this autumn statement , this Government be back this country . labour do not have a plan . they do not understand the economy . they want to borrow £ 28 billion extra , yet they want to take everything in the autumn statement . how be they go to pay for it ? we have a plan ; they do not . I commend the autumn statement to the House . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will take motion 2 to 6 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Occupational Pension Schemes ( Amendment ) ( Equal Treatment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 18 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . that the draft Pensions ( Pension Protection Fund Compensation ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 18 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . that the draft Pensions Act 2004 ( Amendment ) ( Pension Protection Fund Compensation ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 18 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . that the draft Pensions Act 2004 and the Equality Act 2010 ( Amendment ) ( Equal Treatment by Occupational Pension Schemes ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 18 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . that the draft Aviation ( Consumers ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Climate Change that the draft Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 19 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Petition Petition - Definition of Islamophobia I rise to present a petition about the need for the Government to formally define Islamophobia to tackle hatred against Muslims . the all - party group on british Muslims develop a definition of Islamophobia that be support by countless academic , community organisation , political party , mayor , council , trade union and other . last month alone there be a 600 % rise in Islamophobia . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that a formal , government - back definition of Islamophobia be need ; far declare that the definition by the APPG on british Muslims be more appropriate , which define Islamophobia as " root in racism and a type of racism that target expression of Muslimness or perceive Muslimness " ; note that this definition recognise that Muslims be subject to a system of discrimination , control and socio - economic exclusion , alongside hate crime , harassment and abuse ; further note that adopt this definition be an important first step towards tackle hatred against Muslims in Britain . the petitioner therefore urge the House of Commons to formally adopt the APPG ' s definition of Islamophobia and take further step to tackle Islamophobia in the UK . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002871 ] Housing Associations : Charges Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) I very much appreciate have be grant this debate tonight . I reassure the Minister that I come here not in anger , not in sorrow , but with deep , deep concern at the charge be levy on my constituent , specifically by the Aster Group , which be the large housing association operate in my constituency . I be not alone in my concern , and I be conscious that my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) be face similar , although not identical , issue , as be my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , who be here this evening . however , it do seem as though Romsey and Southampton North be particularly impact , and I will go on to explain why and how . first , I draw the Minister ' s attention to a salient piece of correspondence : a letter from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State date 4 September and address to the chief executive of the Aster Group . he conclude it with the phrase : " I will be take a personal interest in how your organisation continue to deliver its responsibility " . I come here in the spirit of wish to help my right hon . friend the Secretary of State in his mission to keep a very close eye on how Aster be deliver . I also , of course , welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , to his new role . he know how pleased I be to see he on the Front Bench respond to this debate . I know that he be familiar with the Aster Group , which operate in his constituency as well as my own . I seem to recall an Adjournment debate in 2017 in this Chamber . like he , I recognise the huge importance of housing association and the phenomenal work they do to support many of our constituent , especially the most vulnerable one . to give a short history , in 2000 Test Valley Borough Council transfer ownership of its housing stock to Testway Housing , which be later buy out by Aster . by and large , that deal have work well . there be always challenge , but nothing that even begin to compare with the current situation , which I first raise in the House several year ago , sadly to no avail . in 2000 , when the sewage treatment plant be hand over from Test Valley Borough Council to Testway Housing as part of the large - scale voluntary transfer of housing stock , those sewage treatment plant be in full work order , with the requisite environmental permit . now , none of they be in full work order and none of they have the correct permit . as be tradition , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will give way to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I commend the right hon . Lady for secure the debate . she outline a situation where housing association become big by absorb small one . in my constituency , in my experience , when housing association become big , their accountability to their tenant and resident decrease . be the right hon . Lady say that in this case , the big the housing association become , the less responsible it become ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . he be right to highlight how some housing association have grow and grow . somebody come to my constituency surgery last week to raise an issue about a different housing association , Adbury , whose ambition be to become one of the large housing association in the country . there be a problem with scale , because as these organisation become more remote from the resident they seek to serve and cover an ever wide geography , the individual contact and understanding of the need of individual can sometimes be lose . aster be a large housing association , with many thousand of property and customer , and an annual profit in excess of £ 50 million . I do not begrudge people make a profit , but I resent it when it come at the cost of decent relationship between Aster , as the provider of local sewage treatment plant , and resident who have work hard and save to be able to purchase their former housing association home . in my constituency and other , they be now live under the tyranny of a housing association that seek to recoup the cost of the housing association ' s failure to maintain and repair sewage treatment plant in the village across Test Valley that do not benefit from main drainage . we all know that 95 % of property in the UK be connect to main drainage , but my plea be on behalf of the people who live in the 5 % of property that be not , some of whom in my constituency be seriously financially challenge and plunge into enormous debt , just because they can not be connect to the main . I know that some in the Department be concern that the debate would be about sewage , and therefore require a response from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , but I reassure the Minister that the debate be not about the sewage itself , but the principle of whether it be okay to charge some resident as much as £ 480 per month for their waste water disposal . aster recognise that those charge be unaffordable , because their own tenant pay about £ 600 a year for their sewage disposal . that figure be not mean - test in any way . Aster have accept that their tenant can not begin to afford charge of many hundred of pound a month , but it do not accept that just because someone have be able to buy their former council house , they may not be wealthy . it do not recognise that many will be pensioner , single people with only one household income or in low pay work , particularly in very rural area , where much of the economy still revolve around agriculture . in East and West Tytherley , Awbridge , Ampfield , East Dean and Nether Wallop — I will not reel off every single village that be affect — the sewage treatment plant , own and maintain by Aster , simply have not be maintain . that have result in long - stand and expensive tankering operation and poorly maintain plant , at the very end of their life , that in some instance discharge foul drainage into ditch , cause Aster to come to the attention — not in a good way — of not just the Secretary of State , but also the Environment Agency . that bring we to the cost . some resident have be receive bill of over £ 400 a month and be now be invoice £ 3 , 500 as their " share " of a replacement plant . I invite the Minister to cast his mind back just 12 month , when the Government quite rightly recognise that average energy bill of £ 2 , 500 per year be unaffordable , and step in to help . some of my constituent have be receive sewerage charge that be twice that . if my math be correct , I can identify one household where the bill will be £ 5 , 760 this year , and that be before they be far bill for the maintenance of the plant . I be very specifically not ask the Minister to step in to pay those bill , but I be ask for his advice as to how hon . and right hon . member can well hold Aster to account , bring the weight of the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to bear , and highlight to the Secretary of State that a company in which he be already take a close personal interest , be now seek to rinse my constituent for Aster ' s failure to maintain its own facility . I have in my possession a report date back some eight year plus , which identify all the maintenance and dilapidation issue of these small sewage treatment plant . and what have we see since 2015 ? we have see not a programme of repair and replacement , but a programme of tankering , recharge to the resident who have buy their former council house , and with remain Aster tenant have their " share " of this cost cap . as Aster tell both I and Councillor Nick Adams - King , who have be tireless in his pursuit of this issue , it recognise that the charge be unaffordable . aster ' s response when challenge on this be that it be entitle to do this . this have not yet be test in law , but I fear that it may come to that point — if only there be a resident who have not have to spend all their cash on Aster ' s ever spiral demand . Aster itself have have no dilapidation or sink fund , so it have make no provision to replace these plant , which might reasonably have be expect after some 40 - odd year of service to be come to the end of their life . Aster have not plan and it have not prepare . I know that because , back in 2011 , this issue be first highlight to I by the resident of Strawberry Lane in up Somborne , who come to I at that time complain of sewerage bill in the region of £ 100 per month levy by Aster . little do we know at the time that Strawberry Lane would be just the first in a long list . I also wish to pay tribute to the former borough councillor , Tony Ward , who negotiate a solution in up Somborne for each property to have an individual septic tank instal . although it be expensive in capital cost for installation , over the past 10 year those resident will have be pay only a fraction of the cost of what an ongoing relationship with Aster would have cost they . I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) for the information that he have provide from his constituency . in Dorset , we see a very similar picture to Hampshire , with aster interpret deed to mean that homeowner must pay for the maintenance of Aster infrastructure , whereas homeowner have understand that sewerage charge would be levy in line with those charge by Wessex Water for a similar service . since the housing stock be transfer there , homeowner have only ever be charge for the service that they use , but be now be ask for an additional sum , run into thousand and thousand of pound for replacement and upgrade infrastructure . there they can point to the poor value Aster appear to be receive as part of its maintenance work , with one provider charge it £ 18 , 000 for the installation of a handrail and the cleaning of a single tank . that be a very similar picture to the massive price of the tankering contract in Hampshire , where tanker be come in from Kent to pump away waste from facility — often several time a day . there be one example of a £ 1 , 250 charge to Aster to empty 4 , 000 litre from a sewage treatment plant that be not work , when a local supplier have quote £ 175 . that give an idea of the scale of the waste , when we know that these tanker be operate many time a day at different location . local waste management company be simply aghast at the sum be charge and the distance be travel , when small company could have deal with a short - term crisis much more cost effectively . that be the real crux of this : it be not a short - term crisis ; it be a long - term pattern of a company that have historically make huge profit simply by not reinveste in maintenance and upgrade system to meet 21st - century requirement . when the crisis hit , it be force to adopt expensive short - term solution and then long - term upgrade , the burden of which be pass on to those who have buy their own home and be therefore deem by Aster to be wealthy enough to afford it . the only comfort that Aster be prepared to give be that it will not pursue people immediately for those charge ; it will simply levy a charge on the house to recover the money when they die . there be two case study that I will specifically highlight . brent live in East Dean . he buy his house in 2020 with his wife , and they now have two small child . they be tell by Aster when they buy the house relatively recently that the sewage treatment plant be in work order and that their estimate cost per year would not exceed £ 80 . he be now face with charge of £ 480 per month . that be more than his mortgage . he be trap in a home that he can not sell , because who would buy a house with that sort of sewerage charge ? Elizabeth be a pensioner from Cowleas Cottages in Awbridge . Aster be charge she an amount for sewerage that be equivalent to two third of her pension , leave she just one third of her monthly income for all her other bill , food and day - to - day living cost . I have some question for the Minister , as you might expect , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want his advice on how we can well hold Aster to account . the housing ombudsman can not help because these be no long Aster tenant ; they be now homeowner . Ofwat be not interested because Aster be not a register search provider . I wonder whether that should be part of the picture go forward . the Consumer Council for Water say that , because it be a contractual relationship , it can not become involved . at every turn we have be stump , which be what bring I here to ask the Secretary of State , via tonight ' s Minister , whether he can please use his exist concern about Aster and help we to find a solution . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) not only for raise this important issue but for the way in which she do so . I describe she as my right hon . friend ; she be also a friend and near constituency neighbour in a neighbouring county , so it be a real delight for I to make my Dispatch Box debut respond to her debate this evening . I , too , congratulate her colleague Councillor Nick Adams - King for the work that he have be do on this issue , along with my county neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) . the first question that my right hon . Friend ask be how we can help . she be right to point out in her concluding remark that such issue can often get pass from pillar to post — different name with different acronym , with everybody try to , Pontius - Pilate - like , wash their hand of it . my Department will not do that . of course , her constituent be perfectly entitle to seek legal advice . that would come at a cost , and it may well be that the conveyancing at the time of purchase be worth a re - exploration . pause there , my right hon . Friend present to the House some pretty horrible and frightening figure . we be all conscious , particularly those of we who represent predominantly rural constituency , of the fierce hit that the cost of living have have on many family , so we can only begin to wonder at the fear generate in the home of the family and individual who be be present with these body - blow bill . the idea of their have to incur legal cost to try to seek a remedy , which be likely to be a long time come , would not be a particularly welcome solution . I have an invitation for my right hon . friend to take up , together with her councillor colleague should she wish to . this be a rhetorical invitation ; I think that she will bite my hand off . my noble friend Baroness Scott , to whom I have speak , as it be her portfolio that would look at this , will convene a meeting in the Department to be attend by Aster and my right hon . friend , pick up on the point that she allude to in the letter of 4 September this year from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , which he address to the chief executive of the Aster Group . again just pause there , I be not entirely sure this be still the situation , but I know that at the time when I introduce my Adjournment debate , which my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North reference , the chief executive of the Aster Group be the highest pay chief executive in the housing association sector . it be not just our right hon . friend the Secretary of State who be take a personal interest in how the organisation continue to deliver its responsibility ; so too be my noble Friend Baroness Scott and so be I , because what the constituent of my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North have be present with be indefensible and , frankly , bizarre . from what my right hon . friend have tell the House in her powerful and persuasive speech , it seem that the housing association have spend little if any money invest in these local sewage plant , have understand the need now for investment — in some sort of a Damascene conversion to the need for housing provider to invest in maintenance and other repair — realise that the cost be eye - wateringly high , and decide to reduce they for tenant and to pile on the cost to those who have merely , through the sweat of their brow and hard work , striven successfully to exercise their right to buy their former council house . and they be now be clobber with above - inflation cost , subsidise those — one can see the argument for this , potentially — in the social rent market , and the housing association be then have the magnanimity , in this almost - upon - us season of good will , of defray the cost until death . that seem to I not exactly in the spirit that we would expect people to be operate in . my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — no Adjournment debate would be complete without his presence — hit on an important point that occasionally this House have overlook : the general transition over time of housing association . when housing stock be transfer from local authority , most if not all of the housing department go into that organisation , often a new organisation , and they take with they the mindset of support some of our most vulnerable constituent and the mindset of our public sector housing . over time those people have retire and over time housing association have grow very big ; that do give they resilience in a fluctuating market , but it also mean quite a lot of that local knowledge and empathy and understanding have be lose , and they be now operate in exactly the same sphere as our major private house builder . that be produce a change of ethos ; my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North have bring this situation to the House , and I have to say that that be not a change for the well . it be great to see my hon . friend at the Dispatch Box for the first time and I congratulate he . I be grateful to my constituency neighbour my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) for raise this issue and I have the same issue in the village of Hatherden in my constituency and want to make two point about what my hon . friend the Minister be say . what be of course lose in the transfer he be talk about be councillor and the sensitivity that local council would have to their resident in the way we be try to give effect to this evening ; that have be the big disconnection in housing . also , one of the argument that be put — I have have this with other issue of maintenance of stock in my constituency , where Aster be a large landlord — be a purely mathematical one : the housing association say , " you ' re right , we haven ' t really maintain this for 20 year , but we also haven ' t charge you for it for 20 year so all we be do be catch up on the charge , " and it fail to reflect on the economic hit to resident when an accumulation of charge be levy in one big blow . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . whether Aster and other presuppose that merely the fact that a family or an individual have recognise that right to purchase their home suddenly make they as rich as Croesus , I be not entirely sure . however , we can only imagine the very real anxiety that see these sort of bill create — particularly when this issue have come as a bolt from the blue , as I understand my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North to say . People be be tell that everything be fine , that those local sewage work be absolutely up to scratch and that one could sell one home in perfect confidence that there would be no extraordinary item for potential new purchaser to pick up . maybe it be a lack of investment , couple with mislead those former tenant , that Aster will be question about at the departmental meeting — and they will attend ; of that I be absolutely certain . we will make they attend to talk to Ministers and to make clear what they be go to do , because their current suggest modus operandi be neither sufficient nor acceptable . although it be in the future , I also point my right hon . friend and her constituent to the leasehold and freehold Bill , which will be publish later this month . that Bill be intend to drive up transparency of the estate management charge that homeowner have to pay , as well as give homeowner the right to challenge the reasonableness — that be the key word , because after the Wednesbury case , reasonableness have a status in law — of those charge in the appropriate tribunal , which of course in England be the first - tier tribunal . the Bill will also include measure to help leaseholder to challenge service charge , include improve transparency requirement and scrap the presumption that leaseholder should pay their landlord ' s legal cost when challenge poor practice . this Government be commit to provide the framework , but it be vital that potential homeowner have access to the right information before they buy . that information should , of course , be set out as part of the conveyancing process . I mention at the top of my remark that , if a current homeowner such as those identify by my right hon . friend be unhappy with the service they have receive from the conveyancer or their solicitor , and the internal complaint process can not resolve the issue , the legal ombudsman may be able to help . in conclusion , I thank my right hon . friend again for raise this issue in her inimitable style . the House always listen to she , because when she speak she have something to say . she have speak on behalf of her constituent very clearly and the Secretary of State , the Department and I share her concern . she be right to quote directly from the Secretary of State ' s letter to Aster of just a few month ago . my Department stand ready to work with she to ensure that her constituent , as well as those of my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset , be not — and here I will close by use the word my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North use in her speech — rinse . question put and agree to . House adjourn .