thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on take your place . I also congratulate all the member who have make such eloquent maiden speech this afternoon , particularly my hon . friend the Members for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) and for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) — please accept my sincere condolence for the loss of your mother . I be grateful to have the opportunity to make my maiden speech . it be an honour to stand here as the new representative for Paisley and Renfrewshire South . I thank every person who put their faith in I at the election . the people of Paisley and Renfrewshire South have vote decisively for real change and a Government in their service , and that be what we will deliver . I also thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all the staff of this House for the professionalism and kindness that they have show to every one of we who be a new MP . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mhairi Black . it can not have be easy for Mhairi to enter this House as the young MP of her time , with the country ' s press hang on she every word . I follow her career with interest and , while we disagree profoundly on how we get there , I have no doubt at all that her desire have always be for a fair and more equitable country . I wish she well in all her new endeavour , particularly her upcoming debut at the Edinburgh Fringe — though she may need to encourage her colleague in the Scottish Government to settle their now annual pay dispute with the local government workforce if she be to avoid step over the city ' s rubbish to get there . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Lothian East ( Mr Alexander ) , who serve my constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire South with distinction as their MP for 18 year , between 1997 and 2015 , before be return to this House again this year . the help and support that he provide to so many across my constituency be mention frequently and fondly at many of the door on which I knock during the election campaign . that he have already be appoint as a Minister of State in the Department for Business and Trade in this Government be testament to the talent and experience he bring to our Benches . both Mhairi and Douglas leave large shoe for I to fill . I be just glad that that be a metaphor rather than a physical requirement , because it might have be a challenge that elude I . Madam Deputy Speaker , size be not everything , as I be sure people will appreciate . my constituent do not vote for I on the basis of my height . in the word of one of my constituent when I knock on their door , " we be vote for you — you ' re not get any tall . " but no one in this House should mistake my height or size for the scale of my ambition for my constituency . I be pleased to make my maiden speech in this debate on education and opportunity , because without good education , opportunity be reduce for many and inequality widen . in do so , I remember fondly my modern study teacher , who , almost 30 year ago now , bring a class of working - class kid from the west of Scotland down to London on a bus to show we this mother of all Parliaments and remind we that , whatever our background , this place be as much our place as it be anybody else ' s . his passion and belief in the power of politic to improve people ' s life give I the confidence to fight for the value that I believe in , and I will forever be grateful to he for that . my value be shape by my grandad , Tadeuz Sadowski . he be a polish migrant who come to Britain and work down our pit . the loss and trauma that he experience by the war wage at home lead he to seek a well life here and in Scotland . his experience teach I that no matter their background or birthplace , everyone deserve the opportunity to live a decent life , free from persecution and prejudice . that be why I have spend my entire working life until now in the service of the trade union movement and ordinary work people . my constituency lie on the west of Scotland , cover the southern portion of the Renfrewshire council area . it include much of Paisley , Scotland ' s large town , the small town of Johnstone and Linwood , and the beautiful village of Kilbarchan , Elderslie , Lochwinnoch , Howwood and Brookfield , among several other hamlet and farmland spread across the rolling Renfrewshire hill . it have a proud and rich industrial history : the mill of Paisley , the carpet factory at Elderslie and the establishment of the first machine tool foundry in the world . while the industry people work in may have change — many now work in our vital public service and at the nearby Glasgow airport — it remain a place where people work hard and rightly expect to be treat fairly in return . a fair day ' s pay for a fair day ' s work should not be much to ask , but wage have lag behind cost in recent year . too many people who be in work have have to claim benefit just to get by , and the number of those claim unemployment benefit in my constituency be above the scottish average . for too long , our community have be fail and forget by two government — but no more . I be proud of the commitment set out by our new Labour Government to improve people ' s life , particularly the commitment to a new deal for work people . make work pay , end insecure work and extend employment right will make a huge difference not just to people ' s pocket but to the quality of their life . they will be the big transformation of worker ’ right in generation , restore dignity to work and prepare people for the change world of work . my constituent have never be afraid of stand up for what they believe in , and neither have I . we be , after all , the birthplace of William Wallace . it be our persistence in the pursuit of equality , opportunity and justice for all that bind we like the thread of the Paisley shawl . it be the spirit of persistence in the pursuit of equality that prompt the early uprising of the weaver who seek recompense for the sma ' shot thread — an invisible thread without which the Paisley shawl would fall apart . that industrial dispute be win by the worker , whose story live long in our memory and continue to inspire we today . it be persistence in the pursuit of opportunity that bring my constituent together to provide for other , as exemplify by the brilliant work of Thorn Athletic ; the community bus service launch by Kilbarchan ' s John McBarron , who step out of retirement to help fellow resident by fill a hole in local transport provision ; and the West end Growing Grounds Association , which provide raise bed to help grow food and prevent food poverty in the local community . it be persistence in the pursuit of justice that give we the infamous Paisley snail , which form the basis of tort law . these be all ordinary people do extraordinary thing , and they be hero , every one of they . my constituent know that good work should provide not simply the bare necessity that people need to live , but the mean by which they enjoy a good life — like our famous poet , Robert Tannahill , who know how to weave thread and verse alternately . St Mirren football club provide huge enjoyment to many people across the constituency , and I hope that the entire House , include my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) , whose constituency include St Mirren ' s arch rival , Greenock Morton , will send its good wish to the club as it head to Iceland tomorrow to face Valur FC in the UEFA conference league second qualifying round — its first european tie since 1987 . I know the value of people be able to send time appreciate the beauty of the natural world . we have the beautiful Gleniffer Braes , with its highland cow , the Clyde Muirshiel regional park , and the tranquillity of the Lochwinnoch RSPB nature reserve , one of the few remain wetland in the west of Scotland , where people can watch whoop swan , widgeon , goldeneye and , if they be very lucky , the elaborate display of the great crested grebe . it would be remiss of I if I do not mention the enrichment provide in everyone ' s life by the pet of Paisley and Renfrewshire South , many of whom I have the pleasure of meeting on the doorstep during the campaign . let I conclude with this message to the voter of Paisley and Renfrewshire South . I will fight for you every day with every fibre of my being . I will work with everybody in the House who have a genuine desire to improve the life of the most vulnerable people in our community , because one person live in poverty be one person too many , and we must work together to do everything in our power to combat that . JFK once say : " let we never negotiate out of fear . but let we never fear to negotiate . " that be the motto to which I hold true as a trade union negotiator . we must ensure that we do everything we can to lift people out of poverty and provide good job with decent term and condition that allow people to thrive , not just survive , because people need bread , but they need rose too . it be privilege and a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) , who , like I , work in teaching and the university sector before enter this place . my background be in humanity while hers be in science , and I know that we will both have to resist the urge to tell anyone off for speak at the back of the class during our time here . it be the honour of my life to rise and offer my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Bracknell , Crowthorne , Sandhurst and Whitegrove . I be the first ever Labour MP to represent this corner of Berkshire . I offer my thank to my constituent who have put their trust in I , and in this new Labour Government , to serve they . it be now for I and colleague on the Labour Benches to deliver the change that we have promise . I take that duty seriously , and although change can not come overnight , it be time to begin the steady task of build a well future for Bracknell and for the country . my predecessor , James Sunderland , represent Bracknell through a challenge Parliament dominate by a global pandemic and two major international war . I pay tribute to the manner in which he serve during that difficult period . James be an advocate for the eradication of malaria , a disease that he see in action while serve overseas in the Army . he be also a champion for special educational need — a cause that I will be proud to take up as his successor . in his maiden speech , James remark that " politic be ultimately about service . " — [ Official Report , 9 March 2020 ; Vol . 673 , c . 98 . ] we disagree about many thing during the election campaign , as member would expect , but on that we be and be agree : politic be ultimately about service . this year be the 75th anniversary of Bracknell be designate a new town . in 1949 , after the war , Britain be face a housing crisis , and a Labour Government establish new town such as Bracknell to address a burn need for more social housing . I be proud that in 2024 , a new Labour Government face a new housing crisis be again commit to develop the next generation of new town , in order to build a well future for family struggle to find safe and secure housing . this next generation of new town would do well to look at the success of Bracknell : a sense of community have be embed by good town planning ; transport link and active travel have be design into the fabric of the town ; and we be home to many national and international business , include in the tech and life science sector . my constituency ' s long and proud history do not start in 1949 . the new town of Bracknell be originally a small market town in the parish of Warfield , some of which lie within the new constituency boundary . I be also proud to be the MP for Crowthorne , which be a beautiful , peaceful village , yet one that have a long history of automotive innovation . everyone in this House will have benefit from the new road sign , mini - roundabout , zebra crossing and speed hump that be design and test at the Transport Research Laboratory base in Crowthorne . in the south of my constituency lie the town of Sandhurst . it be , of course , home to the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , where british Army officer receive their training . the close relationship between the academy and the town be commemorate every four year with the Sandhurst freedom march , mark Bracknell Forest council ' s decision in 1997 to grant the freedom of the borough to the academy . I be privileged to attend this year ' s march , which happen to take place in the middle of the election campaign ; it be an important opportunity to pause and honour those who serve . as I have say , before my election I be a university lecturer , and before that I be a secondary school teacher . I have also be a primary school governor , so I have work in education at all level . give that , it be no surprise that I would be keen to make my maiden speech on a topic that be of great importance to I and to this whole House : that of education . I welcome the Secretary of State for Education ' s commitment to break down the barrier to opportunity for all child , her announcement today of a pause and review of the defunding of technical qualification , and her laser - like focus on raise standard in early year education . we be lucky to have a number of excellent school across Bracknell Forest , and as this week be the start of the school holiday , I take this opportunity to thank teacher , teach assistant and the wide school staff across my constituency for another year of hard work and dedication , and wish they a pleasant summer . the measure set out by my right hon . friend the Education Secretary be badly need in my constituency . despite their heroic effort , teacher be find it hard than ever to offer an excellent education while support the increasingly complex mental health need of their student . alongside that , there have be grow child poverty and real - term cut to funding . nowhere be education reform more need than in the area of special educational need provision ; a long - term failure to grapple with SEND have threaten local government finance and have mean , frankly , that we be let our child down . during the election campaign , I be privileged to get to know a young man call Fred . Fred be 13 year old . he have autism and ADHD , and for the past 18 month , he have be out of school because mainstream education be not suitable for he and he be still wait on a place in a special school . Fred want to go to school . he want to learn — he be an inquisitive kid . I know that because Fred help I with the research for this speech . but because the system be not work , he have be lock out . Fred be not alone . there be far too many child like he in Bracknell and across the country — so - call ghost child who be miss education because the right support be not in place . this be a national crisis and require national solution . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s acknowledgement of that fact today , since the first step towards solve the problem be admit that it exist . let I conclude with this commitment : for as long as I serve in this place , I will do everything I can to fight for well educational opportunity for all , and to speak up for kid like Fred , who just want a chance to learn .