Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — violence against Women and girl what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . whether she have have recent discussion with Cabinet colleague on review the strategy entitle " tackle violence against woman and girl . " what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . tackle violence against woman and girl be a top priority for this Government . we will deliver a cross - government , transformative approach underpin by the new strategy , which we aim to publish as soon as possible . this strategy be oversee by the violence against woman and girl ministerial board , the safe street mission board and regular stocktake by the Prime Minister . this structure hold the Government Departments to account . as a former chair of North Ayrshire Women ' s aid , I be concerned to read report that sexual assault and harassment of woman and girl on train have rise by more than a third over the past 10 year . that add up to 2 , 661 incident report across England , Scotland and Wales last year , with one in 10 of they affect child . do the Minister agree that that can not be allow to continue , and that we must do more to tackle this shocking rise in violence against woman and girl ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . however , there have be recent successful campaign by British Transport police and the Rail Delivery Group , which be the rail industry - fund group represent the view of the rail industry , to encourage report of offence against woman and girl , and we believe that some of the rise in record offence be because of that success and the willingness of victim to come forward and bystander to intervene or report on a victim ' s behalf . however , we be not complacent . the Department for Transport recently announce £ 17 million of investment to well connect CCTV at train station . the project will enable great real - time access for the BTP to accelerate investigation and identify offender as quickly as possible to bring they to justice . over the past year , my office and I have support a depressing number of constituent who have be fail — fail by the police and social service for not listen to report of coercive control ; fail by the family court for not recognise who the victim be ; and fail by the Crown Prosecution Service for not proceed to prosecute case of domestic abuse because it do not believe the victim to be credible . what step be the Minister take with colleague from across Government to ensure that woman be believe and listen to ? sadly , what my hon . friend describe be something that I think everybody in the House would recognise . we be strengthen the justice system to well support victim , and we have commit to ensure that there be specialist rape and sexual offence team in every police force and that police officer receive strong training on violence against woman and girl , include on coercive and control behaviour . we will also ban anyone with a history of violence against woman and girl from join the police force and we will increase the power of the Victims ' commissioner through the Victims and Courts Bill , so that they can hold criminal justice system accountable and independently scrutinise the victim code of compliance . survivor of domestic abuse and violence , along with their child , must be able to access affordable housing . the local housing allowance , introduce by the last Labour Government to cover the low 50 % of private rent , now cover only 1 % of private rent in Wales and 2 . 4 % in England . do the Minister agree that unfreezing LHA and link it once more to actual local rent be vital to reduce the risk of homelessness for survivor and ensure that they have the safety of a stable home when flee abuse ? I thank my hon . friend for his passionate plea , and I absolutely will take up his suggestion in the meeting to which I have already refer . tier 1 local authority in England have a legal requirement to assess and address the need for support within safe accommodation for all domestic abuse victim . the Government have increase the funding to local authority to £ 160 million this year — an uplift of £ 30 million from previous year — to provide further support in safe accommodation for domestic abuse survivor . the Ministry for Housing , Communities and Local Government have publish statutory guidance , which be clear that local authority should ensure that sufficient suitable support in safe accommodation be available to meet the need of victim locally . last week , I meet " Loose Women " presenter in Parliament and hear about their " face it together " programme . first , will the Minister support the " face it together " programme ? secondly , will she support a plan we have hatch to get a poster about it in every gp surgery in this country ? I absolutely do support the " Loose Women " in this regard . I be about to say that I would like to think of myself as one , but I be not sure that that would come across very well . I agree that signage in GPs ' surgery , dentist ' wait room and pub and club be valuable tool to warn the public about the sign of domestic abuse , and can help to point those who be worried about a friend or family member to place where they can be help . we as a Government must ensure that when people need to see that signage it will be there , and that be what we be do in June I ask the Government to consider my private Member ' s Bill call for they to publish a strategy to tackle interpersonal abuse and violence against man and boy . the strategy would ensure that male survivor of crime that be consider to be violence against woman and girl — such as rape , sexual assault , domestic abuse , force marriage and honour - base violence — be give dedicated support , and would also prevent male survivor from have to be in space that should be for woman . on 1 September , the Minister tell I that the strategy " will be publish early in the autumn . " we be now well past that . what be cause the delay in the publication of the revise VAWG strategy , and can the Minister assure I that it will specifically address male survivor of crime that be consider to be violence against woman and girl ? yes , I can absolutely give the hon . Gentleman that assurance , and I would be more than happy to meet he to discuss these matter and see where we can go forward together . the delay be be cause by the fact that the work will be completely cross - governmental ; we must ensure that the allocation process , and all the thing that go on in Government Departments , be as good as they possibly can be , because the National Audit Office report about previous VAWG strategy have leave a lot to be desire , and I do not want that to happen again . in the last couple of month the west midland have see a spate of racially motivate attack on woman of colour , include rape of Sikh woman , who now tell I that they be scared to walk on our street or use public transport to go to work . do the Minister agree that there be no place in Britain for any kind of racial hatred and that these crime must be punish to the full extent of the law ? what assurance can she offer woman and girl in my Wolverhampton constituency that they will have the full protection of the police and the authority so that they can feel safe ? I thank my hon . friend and Birmingham constituency neighbour and share his real concern about a spate of what appear to be instance of racially motivate sexual violence . all I can say be that some of these case be sub judice and charge have be lay , but I absolutely assure he that I have speak to organisation that work on the ground with black and minoritise woman to ensure that we do everything we can , along with the police and other agency , to make sure that woman where he and I live feel safe . strangulation be an extremely common form of gendere violence : up to two third of woman suffer domestic abuse report have be strangle . I have correspond with the Minister about the need for the Institute for address Strangulation to have fund certainty beyond March next year in order to continue its vital work , but have have no assurance . I know how seriously she take this issue , but can she tell we what she be do to make it clear to the Chancellor that sustain this lifesaving work must be a priority if we be to meet the Government ' s target of halve violence against woman and girl ? I greatly appreciate the hon . Lady ' s question , and I be very proud when it be announce yesterday that this Government would make strangulation in pornography illegal in our country , because of the rise tide of its become acceptable . much of that work come from the institute that she mention . she must be in absolutely no doubt that there be not a Cabinet Minister in the country who be not aware of the strength of my feeling about what should be spend on violence against woman and girl . we know — and I have sadly see through my casework — that coercive control can continue for year after a relationship have end through the manipulation of child maintenance payment by perpetrator . what step be the Minister take with her colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure that the system work to support survivor rather than enable perpetrator ? I have see those case . domestic homicide review point to failure in the Child Maintenance Service that have lead to the most tragic circumstance . we be work with the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure that the system that operate in our country be completely safe , but we be also work with the DWP more widely on exactly what we be do in that Department on violence against woman and girl . one of my constituent be domestically abuse by someone on a dependant visa . she have be try to obtain information from UK Visas and Immigration about whether that person be still in the United Kingdom , or still have a visa . would the Minister consider a measure similar to Clare ' s law , so that people have the right to ask what a person ' s current visa status be and UKVI can release that information to they ? I have handle case myself that be not dissimilar , where a third party could not be give that information , so I absolutely understand the hon . Lady ' s frustration . that area , which sit within the Home Office , be one that I scrutinise very closely , and I will gladly take away her recommendation , because , frankly , I think they be quite good one . the Minister will know that I be unashamedly pro - life . while I strongly welcome the Government ' s commitment to end violence against woman and girl , surely that must mean protect woman from harm and coercion in every setting . give the serious safeguarding concern and report of coercion link to abortion pill by post , will she commit to review that policy to ensure that woman be never put at risk ? the hon . Lady make a very important point about how woman ' s health can be use in coercion , especially their fertility — on both side of the coin : about have an abortion or not have one . she will know that , unlike she , I be positively pro - choice . however , she be absolutely right that , when we look at any change to abortion legislation in our country , those conversation will absolutely be go on , and all safeguard will be put in place . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this Government talk about well protection for woman and girl while actively pass change to our sentencing law that disgracefully mean that more than 90 % of groom offender and 60 % of rapist send to prison will get their prison time cut . be there an assessment of the impact of those change on woman and girl specifically ? can the Minister point to a single organisation represent woman and girl that support cut prison time for sexual assault or groom to one third of the sentence ? I will have to go away and check exactly what the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) have say regard the people who the hon . Lady say will be release , because there be , of course , exception — and more exception than there be under her Government ' s prison release scheme , because people like I and my hon . friend have oversight of this process and care about the woman involve . it be absolutely shocking that someone from a Government who oversee the total collapse of our prison system , where we would not have be able to arrest rapist because there be no place for they in prison , can dare to stand there and suggest that that be something that we should — it be unbelievable that she can not recognise her own role in this . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I recently meet the Centre for Action on rape and Abuse , also know as CARA , which support thousand of victim and survivor of sexual violence across Essex , include in my constituency . CARA be concerned about future funding and the need for a strong focus on tackle sexual violence . will the Minister confirm that funding for the rape and sexual abuse support fund and independent sexual violence adviser service will continue beyond March 2026 , and outline how the Government will prioritise address sexual violence ? the Ministry of Justice , which oversee victim funding , absolutely ringfence those two sexual violence fund last year to ensure that they be protect . as for future funding , it would be difficult for I to stand here and guarantee anything while the comprehensive spending review be be allocate , but as someone who use to work in one of those service , I find it vanishingly unlikely that they will not be fund in the future . STEM Industries : Female Workforce what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help increase the female workforce within STEM industry . across Government , we be support a number of initiative to increase the number of woman in science , technology , engineering and math . we have a target of 35 % woman ' s participation in the advanced manufacturing sector . we be invest £ 18 . 2 million to ensure under - represent group get the math support they need in school , and be work with school to support they in develop a triple - science offer for all pupil ahead of introduce a statutory entitlement . a successful stem sector be a diverse one , and it start with inspire the girl of today . thank to this Government embrace AI , constituency such as Airdrie and Shotts be see substantial investment in data centre , which will create job and reindustrialise former industrial heartland . on National Engineering Day , do the Minister agree that this Government ' s commitment to vocational training and apprenticeship will open more door for young woman in town and city across the country to join the STEM workforce and lead the AI revolution ? my hon . friend speak from experience in education , and he be absolutely right . we be invest £ 187 million in our TechFirst programme to bring digital skill and AI learn into classroom and community , while 7 . 5 million worker be set to gain essential AI skill through our industry partnership . training will open up opportunity in constituency such as Airdrie and Shotts , and put woman and girl at the centre of the AI revolution . I commend his work in this area . do the Minister seriously believe that cut funding for the international baccalaureate , a qualification that be prove to keep more girl study STEM subject , will help increase the number of woman enter STEM industry ? an Education Minister will be happy to discuss that with the hon . Lady . diversity , Equality and Inclusion : Public sector what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of diversity , equality and inclusion scheme in the public sector . this Government be determined to break down barrier to opportunity so that everyone can achieve success , and this commitment be underpin by strong datum and evidence . early this year , the Education Secretary say that white working - class boy " have be betray " , yet this summer , MI5 , MI6 and GCHQ run an internship scheme that be open only to people from ethnic minority background . I be afraid the House of Commons run a similar scheme , in partnership with the Windsor Fellowship . what message do the Minister think it send to our child when some door be close to they because of the colour of their skin , particularly in the context of what the Education Secretary say about white working - class boy ? I have a lot of respect for the hon . Gentleman , who be a fellow Berkshire MP , but I gently say to he that it be right that people who serve our country , in whatever form , reflect the community that they serve . these scheme be about level the playing field , not create an unfair advantage , and everybody who gain a place have do so on merit . on the Government side of the House , we follow the evidence ; he just follow the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . as we come to the end of celebrate Black History Month , it be vital that we continue to promote diversity in all workplace . do the Minister agree that it be fundamental for we to have DEI practice in all workforce so that we can fight for equality , fairness and transparency and prevent discrimination , especially the discrimination that far too many people still face in the workplace ? I thank my hon . friend for her great campaigning work . I agree with she that we must do absolutely everything possible to break down all barrier to opportunity in our country . I call the shadow Minister . labour ' s previous definition of " Islamophobia " be adopt by council that have groom gang scandal , and it say that even talk about groom gang be an example of " anti - muslim racism " . we know from Louise Casey that public servant do not speak up because they be scared of be call racist . the Government be now bring in a new definition , but they be refuse to tell the public what be in it . will the Minister commit to publish the draft definition , before it be adopt , for full public scrutiny ? wherever there be abuse , it should be tackle , and we will publish detail in due course . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . in October , we celebrate Black History Month . it have be an opportunity to renew our commitment to maintain all the progress that we have make and ensure that racial hatred have no place in our society . this year also mark the 60th anniversary of the Race Relations Act 1965 , enact by a Labour Government . we will continue to build on its legacy with our plan to introduce the equality ( race and disability ) Bill in this Parliament , and we have also establish the Race Equality Engagement Group , chair by the noble Baroness Lawrence . endometriosis care be in urgent need of reform . I have lose track of the number of young woman who have contact I to share their horror story , some of whom have wait more than a decade to receive a diagnosis . the system be fail they . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to update the woman ' s health strategy , but can the Minister confirm that menstrual health condition such as these will be at the forefront of the renew strategy ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for all her campaign on this issue . she be right that too many woman suffer trauma and pain , their symptom and concern not take seriously . we be committed to prioritise woman ' s health . we have commission a number of study focus on endometriosis diagnosis , treatment and patient experience , alongside six research trial , total an investment of approximately £ 5 . 8 million . this will be an essential part of our 10 - year health plan . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in January , the Supreme Court rule that sex mean biological sex . this be a huge victory for woman ' s right , but now we hear that the Minister be kick the Equality and Human Rights Commission ' s much - need guidance into the long grass . the law be not change — the law be as it have always be — so will she release the guidance and make sure that woman ' s right be protect ? if I may , Mr Speaker , I would just like to say how moved I be by the interview that the right hon . Lady give to the Times about her experience and that of her son . I be really pleased that both of they be do so well and that she be back with we in this House today . we be committed to protect single - sex space . as I set out in this House , I welcome the clarity of the Supreme Court ruling and provider should follow it . the ehrc have give I the code of practice and we be work through that . it be a lengthy document cover all the protect characteristic . any suggestion of delay be simply wrong . the ehrc should know that I be legally require to consult the devolved government . the ehrc have not be ask to carry out a full regulatory impact assessment , but instead a minimum assessment . Dyspraxia be a common condition , but public awareness level be still too low . do the Minister agree that more need to be do across government and society to raise awareness of dyspraxia ? yes , I do . we want a more inclusive society where neurodivergent people , include those with dyspraxia , be support to thrive . we be work across Government to support early intervention in school , include through the partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school programme , and the special educational need and disability reform come forward in the new year , but we be also , beyond education , take a wide view of how we ensure people with condition such as dyspraxia be not hold back . due to the rural nature of West Dorset , SEND child face difficulty access education . I have casework of a young girl with a stroke whose transport be withdraw two day beforehand . will the Minister work with other Departments to solve the problem of SEND child access education in rural area ? I recognise the concern the hon . Gentleman raise and that many member from across the House have raise . that be why we will be set out our plan to make improvement to the system through the school White Paper . I would welcome the contribution of the hon . Gentleman and his colleague as part of that process , because it be important that we put child ' s interest first and get to the right system , particularly around early identification of need . in Stroud , a fantastic volunteer group — the Night Angels , start by Chrissie Lowery — patrol street and train to provide safety for young woman . will the Minister support this group and would she like to join we on a patrol , don the trademark pink fluorescent jacket ? the Minister for Women and Equalities be already wear a pink jacket . I absolutely pay tribute to the group in my hon . friend ' s constituency . the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , who be the Minister with responsibility for tackle violence against woman and girl , will be visit Stroud very soon and have offer to don the pink jacket on our behalf . Mr Speaker , last night I be honour to speak at an event you kindly host with the Royal National Institute for Deaf People . I meet Craig , the chief executive of Action Deafness , which deliver vital service across my constituency , as well as Stuart , an academic focus on the need of deaf young people . they tell I that deaf people too often navigate support from siloe health , education and welfare system that create barrier . what step be the Minister take to co - ordinate cross - departmental support for deaf people to prevent they from fall between the gap ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . I would be more than happy to make sure that she have a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss her concern , and that action be be take across Government to address they . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — engagement before we begin , may I extend a warm welcome to the President of the portuguese Parliament and his delegation , who be in the Gallery today ? if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 5 November . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister be in Brazil , attend COP30 in Bel é m and the Earthshot prize ceremony alongside his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales . the thought of the whole House remain with those affect by the appalling scene we see in Huntingdon and Peterborough , where I spend seven year of my life at school . we thank our emergency service for their outstanding professionalism and the individual who show such tremendous courage to defend other . this weekend be Remembrance Sunday . we will never forget those who fight to defend our freedom . it have be one of the great honour of my career to meet our troop around the world , whether in Cyprus , the Gulf or Australia . this week , the Government announce the big renewal of armed force housing in more than 50 year , kick - start one of Britain ' s most ambitious building programme in decade . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . may I start by congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister on be the first black person to ever answer Prime Minister ' s question ? it be a landmark moment for this place and for our country , and I hope he be proud . my eight - year - old constituent Phoebe be battle cancer . her parent be fundraise to help with treatment cost and to raise awareness of Phoebe ' s condition . People across my constituency have be move by her story and have come together to raise over £ 122 , 000 . will the Deputy Prime Minister join I in pay tribute to Phoebe ' s inspirational bravery , and will he celebrate the incredible generosity and community spirit of Altrincham and Sale West ? it be very kind of my hon . friend to say those opening remark . I be conscious that my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , and indeed the Leader of the Opposition , be both trailblazer who have stand at the Dispatch Box . it be important to recognise the progress that have be make , particularly in the wake of Black History Month . I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . it be hearten to see a community rally around someone as brave as Phoebe , and I wish Phoebe , her twin brother Eric and her parent , Lindsey and Matt , the very good in their fight against cancer . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Defence . may I begin by associate myself and the Opposition with the Deputy Prime Minister ' s remark about the terrible , horrific attack in Huntingdon ? we wish a speedy recovery to those still in hospital and pay tribute to the brave action of the public and the police . overnight , the father of the girl assault in Epping by Hadush Kebatu , the illegal immigrant release by accident , say that the Government have fail they " relentlessly " . I confess , I be surprised that the Deputy Prime Minister have not already apologise . I be go to give he an opportunity now : will he apologise to the family concern ? it be great to see the hon . gentleman in his place . I have expect to see the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , but I be nevertheless pleased to see the hon . Gentleman today . he must have miss the statement on this matter , because in it , I of course say sorry for the anxiety cause while Kebatu be at large . I repeat that now . it be hugely important that Dame Lynne Owens get to the bottom of what have happen with her further investigation . watch the interview last night be absolutely heartbreaking . I have to say , I do think the Deputy Prime Minister owe it to the family to offer an apology here on the Floor of the House — [ interruption . ] but he should have do it at the start of his remark . these be very serious matter , which be why I want to ask the right hon . Gentleman a far , very important question : can he reassure the House that since Kebatu be release , no other asylum - seek offender have be accidentally let out of prison ? the Chamber be , thankfully , quiet , so I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman do not hear I when I say that of course I apologise and be sorry for the anxiety cause . let I just remind he that he be a Justice Minister who allow our prison to get to this state in the first place . it be now for we to fix the mess that we have get into . it be important that Dame Lynne Owens can continue her work and understand what be happen . the hon . Gentleman know that early release begin under the Conservatives ' watch in 2021 . we be talk about extremely serious crime . I be go to ask the Deputy Prime Minister the question again . can he reassure the House that since Kebatu be release , no other asylum - seek offender have be accidentally let out of prison ? it be a very specific question for he to answer . after Kebatu ' s release , I put in place the tough check we have ever have in the prison system . it be important that Lynne Owens be able to get to the bottom of her work . I suspect there will be more check and balance that we need to do . we inherit a complicated system that the Conservatives set up that be let people out on the sly . that be part of the problem , and we be try to fix it . the right hon . Gentleman be the Justice Secretary ; he be responsible for the justice system , and he need to take responsibility . I be ask he a straight question and I be go to repeat it once more , for the avoidance of doubt , because he do not answer it twice . he be here to answer question , so can he reassure the House that since Kebatu be release , no other asylum - seek offender have be accidentally let out of prison ? it be a clear question . can he give an answer ? get a grip , man ! I know I be the Justice Secretary . that be why I be at the Dispatch Box , also as Deputy Prime Minister . we know that . [ interruption . ] I be not go to pray in aid . Dame Lynne Owens be a former deputy commissioner in London and be head of the National Crime Agency . it be for she to get to the bottom of this work . we know that there have be spike since 2021 under the hon . Gentleman ' s watch . when do he come to this House and apologise ? the purpose of government be to take — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear both member . be quiet . it be get noisy in here , so I say this again , just in case the Deputy Prime Minister do not hear I . he be the Justice Secretary . can he reassure the House that since — [ interruption . ] order . I will have no gesture from member in the balcony . do not gesture to I ; it be not a wise decision . this be important . it be Prime Minister ' s question , and all our constituent be listen . People in Epping and right across the country want to know the answer , so I be go to ask the right hon . Gentleman this question again . he be the Justice Secretary . can he reassure the House that since Kebatu be release , no other asylum - seek offender have be accidentally let out of prison ? can he answer the question ? I have get to tell the hon . gentleman : I spend 14 year in opposition and I do a hell of a lot well than he have just do . I have answer the question . under the Conservatives ' watch , prison be in a mess . suicide go up , prison officer be cut , and 20 , 000 neighbourhood police officer be lose . we have deport more people in the last year than they deport in the last five year . please , I be not go to take any lecturing from the hon . Gentleman — order . Mr Dewhirst and Mr Stafford , you test my patience each week . today be not the day to do so ; we have a long weekend come . the public be extremely concerned about what happen in the Kebatu case ; they want to know that there will not be a repeat , so I be put to the Deputy Prime Minister a very clear question about his responsibility . I repeat : can he reassure the House that since Kebatu be release no other asylum - seek offender have be accidently let out of prison ? can he answer the question ? I be look forward to be up against the right hon . member for Newark next time . in 25 year in this House , I have not witness a more shameful spectacle , frankly , than what the Conservatives leave in our justice system — their criminal negligence , on the hon . Gentleman ' s watch as a Justice Minister . they leave our prison on the brink of collapse entirely , threaten to allow offender to run wild on our street — he know that ! rape victim wait year for their day in court — he know that ! neighbourhood policing be decimate , leave our people feel unsafe in their community . the Conservatives have not learn a thing . we be tackle knife crime . that be why it be fall . we be put 13 , 000 more bobby on the street and kick out 5 , 000 foreign national offender . I have get to say to the hon . gentleman : he should do well . I call Jonathan Brash . rise — rise — order . I think we have have six . I call James Cartlidge — [ interruption . ] you have have your six question — I be correct ! I call Jonathan Brash . my constituent Georgia Hart be just 15 year old when she be diagnose with Friedreich ' s ataxia , a cruel and degenerative condition that slowly rob a person of their mobility and independence . since then , her courageous parent have battle day in and day out to raise awareness and money to get she the treatment she need . there be now a drug , omaveloxolone , which have be prove to slow the progression of the disease , yet despite that it have be stall by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence , partly because the number of patient affect be judge to be above the limit for ultra - rare condition . Georgia and those like she be be fail not because the science be not there and not because the treatment be not there but simply because the number do not add up . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that we can not allow bureaucracy to stand in the way of life - change treatment ? will he commit to ensure that I , along with Ataxia UK , can meet the relevant Minister at the early opportunity so that Georgia and her family do not lose more precious time ? it seem that , like the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) can not count , let alone stand up on behalf of the public . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) for his question . our NHS have a strong record in deliver new medicine for rare disease . the evaluation process be rightly lead by NICE . as I understand it , the manufacturer of the new treatment for Friedreich ' s ataxia have withdraw from the process . however , the door remain open for the company to re - engage . I be happy to arrange the meeting that my hon . friend seek to help ensure more broadly that everyone get the care they deserve while we be invest an additional £ 29 billion in the national health service . I call the deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats . on behalf of my party , may I join the Deputy Prime Minister in express our horror at the terrifying knife attack at the weekend and pay tribute to all those , include the emergency service , who put themselves in harm ' s way to protect other ? as we approach Remembrance Sunday , may I also join he in remember all those who give the ultimate sacrifice for our right and our freedom ? those right and freedom be now under threat in a way that we have not see since the second world war . Putin be wage war on our continent and interfere in democracy across Europe , the chinese Government be wage espionage against this House and Elon Musk be incite violence on our street . to date , the Government have fail to heed our call for a new inquiry into russian meddling , fail to place China on the enhance tier of country threat and fail to launch an MI5 investigation into the threat pose by Elon Musk . what will it take for the Government to act and protect our democracy ? may I remind she that as Foreign Secretary I stand at this Dispatch Box and speak to the China audit that we say we would do on come into government ? we do that ; indeed , I do it on the same day that we publish our national security strategy . the Secretary of State for Defence have also publish the strategic defence review . if the hon . Lady look across all three of those document , they set this country in the good place possible to face down the threat that she rightly refer to . I hope that the Deputy Prime Minister in his new role will consider our call again . right now , family across the country be struggle with a cost of living crisis , yet the Chancellor be prepare to increase taxis . meanwhile , because of high interest rate and arcane Treasury rule to do with quantitative easing , the big bank be make billion of pound in windfall profit that they never expect , never rely on and never have to take any risk to earn . without ask the Deputy Prime Minister to pre - empt the Chancellor ' s Budget , which do he think be fair : tax struggle family or tax big bank ? the hon . Lady know that we have 80 year of convention , and it be for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to present her budget later on this month . I say gently to she : it be under her government , in which her party be in coalition with the Conservatives , that we see austerity right across our country ; and she will know that there be major party that be propose austerity again . I know that the Chancellor will do everything she can to continue , as she set out yesterday , to invest in our NHS and in our public service . the leader of my local council , Kent county council , have say that they be a " shop window " for Reform UK . with councillor face criminal charge , inappropriate conduct and behaviour , a defection , five expulsion , a fail doge - inspire cost - cut drive and an authoritarian leader who shout and swear at colleague , do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that the people of Kent deserve so much well ? how will the Government ensure that we deliver high standard in local government ? I see the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) in his seat . this may be the first time I have see he at Prime Minister ' s question . reform say that Kent county council would be the good advert for what a Reform Government would look like , and they be deliver on the chaos that they promise . on standard in public life , I say to the hon . gentleman — [ interruption . ] this be serious . I use to replace the hon . gentleman on LBC , so we have know each other for many year . the disgraceful , racist language that we hear from a Reform MP last week belong in the dark age , and he should condemn it . the week of 22 to 28 November mark BBC Scam Safe Week — it feel like it come around quick every year . by sheer coincidence , the Chancellor have choose that week , of all week , to deliver her Budget . give her previous broken promise on energy bill , on inflation and to business , will the Deputy Prime Minister confirm to the public that if they see something suspicious on tax at the Budget , they should report it ? I usually look forward to the bombast that the hon . Gentleman bring to the Chamber , but as usual , the SNP will say anything to distract from its appalling record . in the week when Scotland ' s Health Secretary have to apologise for the state of the health service on his watch , the right hon . Gentleman could have mention that in his question . we will see what be in the Budget later on this month . I know that the thought of the whole House will be with everyone affect by the Huntingdon attack , and we should praise the action of the train ' s driver , Andrew Johnson , and the heroic guard , Samir Zitouni — in my mind , a worthy candidate for consideration for the George Cross — as we wish he well in his continued recovery . Andrew Johnson tell " ITV News " : " I be only do my job " . will the Deputy Prime Minister take this opportunity from the Dispatch Box to recognise the importance of our railway crew , driver and station staff and the vital role they play in keep we all safe , from avert suicide on the rail network to deal with antisocial behaviour and emergency such as the one we have see this week ? the action of the driver , Andrew Johnson , and the train staff member , Samir Zitouni , be nothing less than heroic , and I be sure that the whole House would agree that some form of recognition be absolutely deserved . our country be define by these people work on the frontline , care for and support the public every single day , and I be proud to be part of a Government who be fight for they , increase their pay , tackle the cost of live crisis and fix the public service that we rely on . on Sunday and on Tuesday we will honour those that make the ultimate sacrifice , not only from this country but from across the Commonwealth . I wear not only the poppy but the marigold to honour the Commonwealth troop that give their life . a week on Sunday , there will be a parade at the Cenotaph by the Association of Jewish Ex - Servicemen and Women , where jewish people will come together — veteran , man , woman and child — to parade with the medal that their forefather win during world war two , the great war and other conflict . it will be particularly apposite this year , with antisemitism on the rise , that a senior Cabinet Minister come to that parade and lay a wreath on behalf of this House and the whole country , to remember the jewish people that give their life for this country so that we could all be free . I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . I buy a new suit this morning because my godmother say that she would be watch . his question bring to mind the West Indies Regiment and its contribution in two world war . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) for ensure that despite wear a new suit , I have manage to put my poppy on . we wear a poppy to remember all those who fight and die for this country . they represent every walk of life , every race and every religion . my ministerial colleague , the noble Lord Coaker , will be proud to lay a wreath at the annual remembrance event at the Cenotaph to mark our endure gratitude to generation of jewish service personnel and veteran , and I would like to thank ajex for organise the event and for all that it do throughout the year to keep alive the memory of the jewish people , many of whose descendant live in Stamford Hill in my constituency , who give their life for this country . I be regularly contact by leaseholder and residential freeholder from across Ashford , Hawkinge and the village who raise concern about rise property management fee , poor service and a lack of transparency over what they be be charge for . as they already pay council tax , it be wrong that they should pay extra for the maintenance of road and green area on their estate . will the Deputy Prime Minister update the House on the action the Government be take to reform the current outdated system so that my constituent can look forward to have strong right , great power and improved protection ? for million of leaseholder , the dream of home ownership have fall woefully short of what be promise . that be why we be implement the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , provide homeowner with great right , power and protection . we will bring the injustice of fleecehold to an end , protect people from unfair cost . as my hon . friend know , the Minister for Housing and Planning , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , be go to meet the director of FirstPort to address the serious concern over its performance . on Monday , the Defence Secretary say at the Dispatch Box that the Scottish Government be a " threat " to national security — a charge repeat this morning by the Scottish Secretary . what he in effect be say be that a democratically elect Government elect by 1 . 3 million Scots pose a threat to this country . I do not know whether that be something the Deputy Prime Minister will repeat at the Dispatch Box today , but can he tell I why democratic Scotland be a threat to national security and China be not ? I take a dna test a few year ago : I be 5 % Scot . the people of Scotland be not a threat to national security ; it be the SNP , and its desire to get rid of the nuclear deterrent , that be a threat to national security . the hon . Member should hang his head in shame . it be at this time of year that many of we think of those who have serve their country and continue to do so — those like my grandad who serve in world war two and bring up my dad and my uncle in force accommodation , and those like my nephew currently serve , who send I video of accommodation riddle with black mould . will the Deputy Prime Minister welcome the new defence housing strategy announce this week , which will guarantee the end of the scandal of unfit force accommodation ? will he guarantee to my resident in Stafford , Eccleshall and the village — the 500 - plus military family — that they will finally have accommodation fit for they ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for champion our armed force , who make extraordinary sacrifice to keep our country safe . we be renew our country , and that include renew our contract with those who commit the ultimate sacrifice . four thousand military home — that is , 9 out of 10 — will be upgrade thank to the £ 9 billion that we be invest . of course , that will include her constituency — home fit for hero deliver by a Labour Government . may I echo the word of the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) of how proud I be to wear the marigold alongside my poppy ? last year , Sadiq Khan be elect London mayor with a promise to keep a police station front counter open in all 32 London borough 24 hour a day . labour have just break that promise to Londoners as only two will remain . this year , the Met police have 1 , 419 few police officer and staff — that is , few people work hard to keep Londoners and our visitor safe . in Sutton and Cheam , we have just have our high street police team cut from 11 officer to just four , inevitably leave my constituent less safe . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree with the Liberal Democrats and Sir Mark Rowley that a shrink Met police force compromise their ability to keep londoner safe ? as the hon . member know , the previous Government cut police officer and police community support officer while also critically underfunde the criminal justice system . we be act in London , fund the Met with up to £ 262 million this year , and we be invest £ 200 million this year to put 3 , 000 more neighbourhood police on our street by spring . through our Crime and Policing Bill , we will also give they the power they need , include tough new respect order to tackle crime and make our street safe . but I do gently say to the hon . member that the Liberal Democrats come to their foot and ask for more funding , and then give the opportunity , they vote against the reform that would actually grow our economy . in Aylesbury , I have be run a programme call " your Voice , your future " to help young people engage with politic and shape the issue that matter to they . they have send in idea for the school curriculum review , advocate for well mental health support and share their fear about smartphone and social medium . will the Deputy Prime Minister join I in recognise the contribution and idea of young people , and what more will he do to ensure that they can meaningfully engage in national policy ? I applaud my hon . friend . she be a passionate champion of the next generation . she will have see my right hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) launch her curriculum review , which will deliver high standard for every child , give they the skill they need to thrive and boost their engagement in our democracy . I be proud that we will also be give 16 and 17 - year - old the right to vote in our UK election to make their powerful voice hear . burn waste be as pollute as burn coal , and our incinerator be already over - capacity . when will this Government renew the previous Government ' s pause on new incinerator , end perverse deliver - or - pay contract with incinerator company , and deliver an incineration tax , such as the landfill tax , to encourage waste reduction , reuse and recycling ? the right hon . Gentleman be very experienced . he know that on energy , our country ' s future be in renewable , and that be why we be invest in they . he should listen carefully to what the Prime Minister have to say at COP . the Chancellor will have hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s observation about further taxis ; he will have to wait until the end of the month to see what happen . since this government massively boost the national minimum wage for young people , my Erewash constituent earn far more than the £ 3 . 40 an hour that I be pay in my first job just 17 year ago . what be the Deputy Prime Minister ' s response to the people , include Conservative and Reform Members , who claim that £ 10 an hour be too high a wage for young worker ? do he happen to know whether any of the reform leader ' s dozen extra job pay he less than £ 10 an hour ? I be look at the entry of the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . he be make quite a lot out of gold bullion . one have to ask : why do he want to cut the minimum wage for people who be not make even 1 % of what he make ? the Labour party be on the side of young people , boost their wage and deliver the youth guarantee to help everyone realise their potential . I hope that young people recognise what those two other party want from their record . People across the country be feed up with extensive and needless delay cause by road , rail and utility work happen at the same time because of a failure to co - ordinate . my Transport ( duty to cooperate ) Bill would fix that and cut disruption , support community and the economy . I understand that the Government be look for way to support the economy — apparently — so will the Deputy Prime Minister pass on my proposal to the Chancellor and back my Bill ? I will certainly pass it on to the Chancellor . see dentist be crucial not just for people ' s dental health but for their broad health and wellbeing , but access to NHS dentistry have be a grow problem for a number of year . in my constituency , only two out of 10 dentist be take on new adult NHS patient — the number be the same for child . will the Deputy Prime Minister set out what the Government be do to improve access to NHS dentistry and put healthy smile on my constituent ' face ? my hon . friend be right to raise that issue , which be important up and down the country . we be take action to address the appalling inheritance we receive by roll out extra urgent and emergency appointment across the country . we be also reform the dental contract , recruit more dentist and ensure that they work in the national health service for a minimum of three year . the inclusion of Oxford University hospital NHS foundation trust in the rapid review of maternity and neonatal service be welcome . report today in the New Statesman and on Channel 4 set out failure at that trust . will the Deputy Prime Minister commit to carry out in full the outcome of Baroness Amos ' s review , and ensure that the review be the start of a sea change in maternity service , not a whitewash ? Baroness Amos be a dear friend of mine . I know that the Health Secretary be consider her recommendation . Hurricane Melissa have devastate Jamaica and leave the country in crisis . the Imperial College storm model state that the hurricane would have be unlikely without climate change . I know that the Prime Minister be represent the UK at the COP30 summit against climate change . will my good and right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister ensure that the UK lead the way on prevent climate change ? I be deeply sadden by the loss of life and the scene of devastation in the great country of Jamaica . like my hon . friend , I have relative in Jamaica , and I thank and commend she for her personal fundraising effort . the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have be in touch with their counterpart to offer our full support , with £ 7 . 5 million of aid funding already mobilise . we have charter flight from Jamaica for british national who be unable to fly home commercially . Jamaica will also receive $ 71 million from the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility pool — funding that begin under the previous Labour Government and that Jamaica can draw on for its renewal . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for join I at a recent event in Parliament to support the work of Prostate Cancer Research , a charity of which I be an ambassador . he and I both believe that introduce a target national screening programme for prostate cancer be the right thing to do and would save life . do he agree that the recent compelling result of the 162 , 000 - patient european trial support the case , and that that evidence , alongside datum from Prostate Cancer Research and other , should be give significant weight by the UK National Screening Committee ? I thank the right hon . member for raise the issue . sadly , too many of we will know someone affect by prostate cancer ; too many member of my family be currently live with prostate cancer . I be proud to co - chair the Prostate Cancer Research event last year and this year with he , and I share his determination to boost research , speed up treatment and deliver well care . he know that I be biased , but these be rightly decision for the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . the UK National Screening Committee be review the late evidence for prostate screening and consider whether any change should be make to save life , and we have invest £ 42 million jointly with Prostate Cancer UK — I call Jenny Riddell - Carpenter . in the past 15 year , there have be 170 case of matricide . in 2022 , more woman be kill by their son than by stranger . child - to - parent abuse be often link to complex mental health issue , and early this year I meet Laura and Ian who be do all they can to support their son in his rehabilitation after serve time in prison . they be live in constant fear of physical harm from their son , who they love and adore . will the Deputy Prime Minister support my request to meet the relevant Minister to discuss the effect of child - to - parent abuse ? Matricide be a horrific crime and we be committed to tackle it . our violence against woman and girl strategy will set out how we will halve violence , include domestic abuse , against woman over the next decade , and I will arrange for the Minister to meet my hon . friend . lindsey oil refinery in my constituency be under threat of closure , with the loss of hundred of job . there have be a number of expression of interest in take over the whole site . if one of those pass the test of due diligence , will the Deputy Prime Minister give an assurance that the Government will back the project and allow the continuation of operation at the refinery ? I can not give the hon . Gentleman that assurance from the Dispatch Box , but I will ensure that the relevant Minister meet he . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . be it to correct the number of question , and to say that I be right and you be wrong ? I hope that you be not go for a job at the Treasury . come on then . to be clear , Mr Speaker , my point of order be about a serious issue . the Telegraph be report that a police manhunt have be launch for a second asylum seeker who be mistakenly free from prison . can you advise I on how I can ask the Justice Secretary whether he be aware of that when I ask he about it repeatedly in Prime Minister ' s question ? you have put it on the record , Mr Cartlidge . let we move on . conflict in Sudan ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if she will make a statement on the Government ' s approach to the worsen conflict in Sudan . I be sure the whole House will join I in condemn the shocking violence against civilian in El Fasher . the late report , include of 460 civilian be kill in a single attack , be harrowing . this be part of a pattern of appalling violence perpetrate against civilian and be just one element of the suffering drive by the war in Sudan , a conflict that have now create the bad humanitarian crisis on record . over 30 million people need aid and 12 million have be displace . Famine be spread and cholera be widespread , with the party continue to block lifesaving assistance . as the Foreign Secretary say at the Manama dialogue last weekend , " no amount of aid can resolve a crisis of this magnitude until the gun fall silent … the world must do more " . the UK be use all the tool at our disposal to protect civilian , to get humanitarian aid to those in most need , and to secure a last ceasefire in Sudan . a year ago , the UK , along with Sierra Leone , bring a resolution to the UN Security Council . this would have bring forward concrete measure to protect civilian if it have not be so cynically veto by Russia . six month ago , we bring international partner to London to host the London - Sudan conference to build consensus around strengthen humanitarian access and end the war . on 30 October , we call an emergency UN Security Council session , condemn the assault on El Fasher by the Rapid Support Forces and its devastating impact on the civilian population . we lead a press statement to maintain the spotlight on the situation and the pressure on the RSF to de - escalate in line with UN Security Council resolution 2736 . on Saturday , the Foreign Secretary announce a furth £ 5 million in aid in response to the situation El Fasher , which will provide lifesave food and health assistance as well as support to survivor of sexual violence . that be on top of the £ 23 million we have already mobilise from exist budget through partner such as the International Committee of the Red Cross and the Sudan Humanitarian Fund . we be provide £ 120 million this year to the crisis in Sudan , and both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have be clear that this funding be protect . we will keep work at every level to bring this horrific conflict to an end . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . the atrocity of recent day , include in El Fasher , be beyond horrify . the suffering inflict on the sudanese people by this war be an affront to humanity . red line have be cross in the prosecution of this conflict that can not be allow to stand , especially by the UK as the penholder on Sudan at the UN Security Council . Britain need to use its influence to co - ordinate robust and strong international action to tighten the screw on the war party , press they into a ceasefire and end this barbaric conflict . the Government must go far and upgrade our support for those document evidence of these heinous crime . can the Minister confirm that that will happen ? will the Minister introduce more hard - hit sanction on the key operator and take concert action to deter entity , individual and business whose support continue to sustain this awful conflict ? be action of this nature be co - ordinated with international partner , and what progress have be make to build up organic civilian political group so that Sudan can move back to a civilian Government after the ceasefire ? it be essential that we have a credible day - after plan as soon as possible . on the dire humanitarian crisis , be the change territorial position of the war party have an impact on the ability to deliver aid , and if so , what be the plan to counter this ? we note the announcement early this month — I think last week in Bahrain — of the £ 5 million be provide for emergency aid support for the survivor of sexual violence in El Fasher . the whole House will recognise the importance of get aid to they , so what can the Minister say about the delivery of that urgently need aid ? how be that happen ? what discussion have the UK Government have with the Sudan quad in recent day ? how do the Minister define the UK ' s relationship with the quad , now and move forward ? can the Minister share his late assessment of the region ' s wide ability to manage the fallout from this terrible conflict ? have the Government carry out an assessment of what different outcome from this conflict would mean for the security of the Red sea ? those carry out the atrocity in Sudan need to know that the whole world be watch they and can see what they be do , and that there will be consequence . I thank the right hon . Lady for that important set of question . on accountability , we continue to lead the core group in Geneva . we be support the fact - find mechanism of the United Nations , and it be absolutely vital that work on accountability and justice continue . those at the top of both the RSF and the sudanese armed force be responsible for the conduct of their force , and they must be hold accountable for their conduct . the right hon . Lady be right to raise question about humanitarian aid . I be afraid I can confirm that the shifting of the frontline be affect aid delivery , and aid be clearly not reach El Fasher in the volume require . the report , include the report from the World Health Organisation last week , of both the event in El Fasher and the consequence for civilian be horrify . I can confirm that both the Foreign Secretary and I be in touch with many key player in the region over the weekend , include member of the quad , the secretary - general of the Arab League and a range of other . this be a situation of the utmost urgency , and more must be do . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the UK , as penholder on Sudan at the UN Security Council , have already play an important role in call an urgent Security Council meeting this week , but what my hon . Friend say about Russia chime with the Select Committee ' s experience when we visit New York . it be suggest to we that the UK have hold back from raise Sudan at the Security Council because it know that Russia be likely to use its veto . beyond provide direct aid funding , which I know be a priority for the Prime Minister , what can the United Kingdom do to focus the mind of the international community on the unfold tragedy in Sudan ? it have go overlook for far too long . my right hon . friend be experience in these issue . question of aid be absolutely vital , but as the Foreign Secretary say over the weekend , aid be not enough in a conflict of this magnitude . we be work with all party to try to ensure a change in behaviour from the two conflict party . they be take step that be not only inflict horrific hardship and violence on civilian in north Darfur and wide Sudan , but restrict the vital flow of aid , which be so important . we will continue to work with a range of international partner , include member of the quad , to try to bring this conflict to a close . the quad ' s statement on 12 September be important , and all external party provide support to either side in the conflict must stop do so . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Rapid Support Forces ' capture of El Fasher , follow an 18 - month siege , have usher in a new phase of terror . report of systematic sexual violence against woman and the summary execution of civilian be truly horrific . the Minister refer to the UN Security Council , which meet last week and demand that all party to the conflict protect civilian and abide by their obligation under international law . it be clear that those obligation be be entirely ignore . as the penholder on Sudan at the UN , the UK have a unique responsibility to show leadership and ensure that protection for citizen be more than just word . I have three question for the Minister . first , can he confirm whether the UK seek at the UN to secure a country - wide arm embargo ? secondly , do the Government consider that the United Arab Emirates be a party to the conflict ? thirdly , in the light of report that british weapon have be supply by the UAE to the RSF , will the Government ban arm sale to the UAE until it can be prove that Abu Dhabi be not re - export british arm to the RSF ? let I take this opportunity to be clear on report about british arm , because I can see from previous discussion in this Chamber that there be some confusion . there be an article that make reference to a range of different arm that might be in use in Sudan , and I have already speak about the importance of all external party not support the two party to the conflict . let I clear : the UK be provide no arm that be of use in the conflict . as I understand it , the article refer to a seatbelt or a harness , which be not a prohibit item ; component of an engine ; and a target practice item , all export of which be stop in 2017 . I reiterate that we interpret our arm obligation carefully and strictly , but to clear up any confusion for the House , in some case , these be not item that be prohibit at all . none of those item be eligible for export at the moment , and none would make any difference to the scene of conflict that we be discuss this afternoon . the situation in Sudan be beyond devastating . indeed , Sudan ' s ambassador have warn that a genocide be take place there . as we focus on those who be be violate , I urge the Minister to ensure that the UK Government lead international effort to bring the perpetrator of the disgraceful violence against woman and girl to justice , no matter how long that take . my hon . Friend ask a critical question . I be pleased to confirm that today , the UK have call for a special session of the UN Human Rights Council , in our capacity as leader of the Sudan core group . this be further action on our part to ensure that there be exactly what my hon . friend call for : accountability and scrutiny in this horrific conflict . I call the Father of the House . obviously , what be happen in Sudan be absolutely appalling for the people there , but we can not insulate ourselves from these sort of conflict . Mali be about to be take over by terrorist . all over Africa , energetic young man be flee . they be walk across to Libya , be torture and end up in Calais . it seem to I that we must think outside of the box on this issue , and we should not wash our hand of it . I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) : why be we cut overseas aid at the precise moment when the whole of Africa be in absolute turmoil ? we be not an island . these young man be come here ; it would be much well if we arrest and deport they , and send they back — with some help ; we should not just lock they up — so that they can assist with rebuild Sudan , Eritrea and Somalia . after all , we be one planet , be we not ? I thank the Father of the House and my constituency neighbour for his question . his question in this Chamber often surprise I . I be very much alive to the issue he have raise . I be in Algiers two week ago , I think , and meet young man of exactly the profile he describe — man who have seek to leave Mali and have get stick somewhere on their way to the UK . the condition they find themselves in be much more brutal than those that the cruel human trafficker tell they they can expect when they leave their home country , and many of they wish to return . I will have to check , but I think we have support 6 , 000 man and woman in Algeria who have return to their country , rather than attempt an onward journey to Europe , and possibly eventually the UK . this be vital work . in our effort to smash the gang and stop the boat , we must , as the Father of the House say , look right back to the place of origin , which include some of the place we be talk about today . it be estimate that 11 . 7 million civilian have be forcibly displace . of those , 840 , 000 be in Chad , which of course have its own issue . what support be be provide to Chad and neighbouring country that be housing refugee from Sudan ? we have a programme of support for refugee displace in the region . as my hon . friend rightly say , Sudan ' s neighbour face a range of challenge , and the burden of refugee support often fall particularly heavily on the place with the few resource of their own . I be very happy to write to he with detail about Chad , but have serve for two year in Juba when the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) be Secretary of State for International Development , I know what a significant impact conflict in the region can have . it displace large number of people , which put huge pressure on public service elsewhere . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question , and underline the importance of this matter by allow further discussion on Sudan in the House . the Minister be do a very good job , but the whole House need top - level , prime ministerial involvement in this matter , just as Sir Tony Blair and my noble Friend Lord Cameron be involve when they be Prime Minister . we be witness wholesale slaughter . today be not about money and humanitarian aid , but about impunity . these murderous thug be brag online about their part in the ethnic cleansing that be take place . we need to keep very strong record , so that we can hold to account as many of these people as we can , and we need more action at the UN , where Britain hold the pen . we need to demand access for an African Union - UN delegation to El Fasher , so that they can meet the leader of the RSF , and we need to prepare international sanction to be visit on all its leader . the right hon . Gentleman make a powerful point , base on long year of experience . I will certainly discuss his suggestion with the Minister with responsibility for Africa . the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification recently discover condition of famine in El Fasher and Kadugli . it have also state that condition in Dilling in south Kordofan be likely similar to those in Kadugli , but those condition can not be classify due to insufficient reliable datum . do the Minister agree that just as it be unacceptable to indiscriminately kill civilian , health worker and aid worker and restrict aid access , it be unacceptable to deny access for the purpose of famine classification , and be the Government make that point to the belligerent ? that be a very important point . it be absolutely vital that the IPC have the access it require to make its classification . I note with alarm and dismay how often this House rely on IPC classification , not just in Sudan but in Gaza . it be vital that the IPC can do its work properly , so that its classification , which be the world standard , can be rely on . in last night ' s Adjournment debate , I call for a Lancaster House - style conference for all the party to the Sudan conflict , so that a way to peace can be find . Government Members also call for a peacemaking force . give the urgency of the situation , can the Minister please see to it that both of those suggestion be investigate , and that discussion be open with our partner in the region , include Nigeria , so that the suggestion can be act on ? I take note of the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion . I be sure that he will be aware that six month ago , we do host a conference — I think it be in Lancaster House — for the whole world , in order to try to make progress on this question . we do so mostly privately , give the sensitivity for all involved . we will continue to do all we can diplomatically , both publicly at the UN and behind closed door , as part of a concerted effort to bring this violence to an end . I associate myself with the remark make by my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) yesterday . he note that in previous conflict , concert effort have be make to bring in some form of UN peacekeeping force , but unfortunately , that do not seem very popular in today ' s world . I will forgive the Minister if he think this be a naive question , but in addition to the humanitarian aid we be provide and the diplomacy we be undertake , what can we do to stop civilian from be kill right now ? be we look at any form of peacekeeping force , be it UN , African Union or a coalition of the willing , to stop civilian be kill right now ? my hon . friend ask the right set of question . of course , the first priority must be a ceasefire . as he know , there have be peacekeeping force in Darfur previously , and they have face very considerable difficulty in exercise their mandate when the conflict party be not prepared to take the vital first step , which be to hold a ceasefire . I have ask this before , and I will ask the Minister again : when will the Government publish their Africa strategy , cover both north Africa and sub - Saharan Africa ? I fear that there will be other conflict like this one , and as the UK , the US and the French have divest politically , economically , diplomatically and as regard the provision of aid , we have see other fill that vacuum , such as China , Russia , proxy and terrorist group . unless the US , the UK , the French , and other partner and ally get together , and get back into Africa to support fragile government and stop they become fail government , we be likely to see our adversary advance all over Africa — include in Commonwealth country — and we be more likely to see more bloodshed , rape and torture and what one of our UK paper have call " hell on Earth " in Sudan . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his commitment to these issue . I can reassure he that I have be in north Africa twice in the past two week , and the ministerial team will continue to pay Africa the attention that it deserve . I will have to revert to he on the question of the timetable for publish the Africa strategy . despite it be the large humanitarian catastrophe on the planet , and despite the mass rape and slaughter of civilian , when it come to Sudan , it feel like the world have take a moral holiday . the atrocity in El Fasher be entirely foreseeable — this conflict be not new . I understand that the Foreign Secretary be lead the fight to keep Sudan on the agenda and to secure accountability for the mass atrocity in Darfur , but do the Minister agree that it be time that global leader follow the UK ' s example and show the moral resolve , the moral courage and the leadership need to end this deadly assault ? I thank my hon . friend for make that important point . it be one with which both I and the Foreign Secretary agree . as she say at the weekend , the world must do more . may I repeat the question that I ask the Minister ' s colleague last week : be there no other regional power that could intervene physically to separate the war party ? may I put it to the Minister that , while it be fortunate that we have be grant successive urgent question on this subject in successive week — thank to the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , to the shadow Foreign Secretary and to Mr Speaker — it would be a recognition of the anxiety feel in all part of the House if the Government make regular ministerial statement on it , rather than we have to rely on application for urgent question ? as I be sure the House know , this ministerial team be very happy to return to the House regularly , and Mr Speaker provide we with plenty of opportunity to do so . I will take the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment back to the responsible Minister . for reason that I be sure he will understand , I will decline his invitation to comment on the regional balance of military force . Sudan be face the bad humanitarian crisis in the world at the moment , with 150 , 000 people kill in the past two year and more than 14 million displace . there be two aspect to this . first , humanitarian aid have to get to those who be affect , and urgently . secondly , what measure will the Government take to stop the murder , rape and torture of innocent civilian in Sudan ? I agree with my hon . friend about aid access . on the tangible step that we be take , as I say early , we have call today for an emergency session of the UN Human Rights Council on these question . we have support the fact - find mission . my colleague the Minister for Africa conduct an event at the UN General Assembly in September . the Foreign Secretary have describe some of the work she have do , too . we will keep at it for as long as it take . british - make military equipment have be find in conflict zone in Sudan . that include Cummins engine find in armoured vehicle , which be not subject to export licensing , do not go through any check and be not subject to any diversion check have be send to the UAE . the Minister dismiss the concern express early by the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , but be it not clear that our arm export licensing system be not function , be not fit for purpose and need a full review , and that we should have an embargo on all arm export to the UAE now ? I agree with he that the UK Government need to do more , as do the world . do that not include international pressure and sanction on all those with link to the war party , include , as I understand it , the UAE and Egypt , which be support and fuel the horrific conflict in Sudan ? it be vital that external weaponry do not flow into Sudan at this time . I would not wish to characterise my early remark to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , as dismiss his concern ; it be an effort to be precise about what we be talk about . the article in question be a seat belt , a target practice item and component of an engine . the engine component may have be license at a previous time , but since then those licence would not apply for get the component into Sudan . we need to be clear that these be neither bomb nor bullet , and nor be they item that be likely to be irreplaceable . we be look carefully at those report , but give the tone of some of the commentary in this House , I want we to be absolutely clear what we be talk about . our arm export licensing regime be one of the strong in the world . I recognise the strength of concern in the House , but we have a duty to be precise about what we be talk about . these be not arm as the public would understand they . it be right that the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Dr Chowns ) raise question about the engine component , and we be look carefully at the report about when they may have be transfer , but let we be under no illusion : the component for that engine be unlikely to be make a substantial contribution to the absolutely devastating violence that we be see . some 3 . 5 million child under five year of age be suffer from acute malnutrition . in January 2025 , the former Biden Administration say that it judge that " the RSF and allied militia have commit genocide in Sudan . " do the british Government share the opinion of the former Biden Administration ? as the House will know , genocide determination be , in the view of the British Government , a question for the competent court . that do not in any way take away from the horror of what we see and the report that we receive , include the World Health Organisation report from early last week , which be absolutely horrify about the scale of the violence take place in Sudan . Sudan be a crushingly poor country , but it be not without resource , so it be hardly surprising that malign state actor and their proxy be closely involved there , and not in a good way . what can be do in particular to disrupt the smuggling of gold from Sudan to Syria by the Wagner Group to fund Russia ' s war in Ukraine ? my right hon . friend — my predecessor — make an important point about the role of what be know as the Wagner Group and be now Africa Corps . it have suffer some setback in the region , not least in Syria , but it continue to play a deeply malign role . we be focus on what russian support be do to that part of the world , and it be all malign . we will continue to bear down on those question in the way he would expect . rise — Order . I understand the importance of this urgent question , but we have substantial business to get through today , so I ask that question be short and , Minister , that answer be just as short and on point . I welcome the aid that the Minister have outline for this horrific crisis . he be right that we must be precise about what military involvement , if any , the UK may have via arm sale . he will have also hear the concern about the UAE and what be happen . Amnesty International have describe it as a " hub for arm diversion for year " , affect conflict not just in Sudan , but in Eritrea . can he update the House ? he say that the Government be look closely at the report about arm sale . can he update we on what conversation he have have with our counterpart in the UAE on that ? how can we close those loophole so that everybody can have confidence in this matter ? we have look closely at the report in the Guardian and the associate documentary evidence that it have provide . I have try to set out our assessment of those report . we be still look in particular at this question of the engine and the licensing arrangement by which it may have make its way to Sudan . however , unlike some of the report that I have see online and elsewhere , this be not large - scale british arm ; this be three specific component , and the dossier of document include a range of other country . that be why I have focus my remark more broadly . I can also reassure my hon . friend that the UK and the UAE continue to discuss these issue , include discussion on Friday between the Foreign Secretary and her counterpart . give the horrendous , apocalyptic scene we be see in Sudan , and the fact that 25 million people be now estimate to be in acute hunger , do the Minister still think it be right for the Government to cut our overseas development aid budget ? can he commit to the House that the Government will increase it back to 0 . 5 % of national income and use that funding to fund the UK ' s response in Sudan , which be so desperately need ? I be happy to enter into the wide debate about aid funding , whether in relation to Sudan , Afghanistan or Gaza , but I must also tell the House what I see on a day - to - day basis : in Sudan , just as in those other country , restrict access be the single most significant cause of harm , and that be a result of the action of the participant in the conflict . there be a debate to be have about the overall aid budget , but at moment such as this , when area that require aid be be cruelly deprive of it , we need to focus on where responsibility lie , and that be with the party to the conflict . I thank the Government for the leadership they be show on Sudan , include last week ' s statement at the United Nations . the Minister be right to stress both the urgency and the horror of the current situation in El Fasher and beyond , but can he set out what be require next at the UN , in term of both process and outcome , to try to stop the violence and to tackle the ongoing humanitarian crisis ? there be three particular area in which we be focus on UN action . the first relate to the fact - find mission that we have support , which be critical to accountability and justice ; the second relate to the Human Rights Council itself , where , as I say early , there will be an emergency session ; and thirdly , we will be discuss with our partner on the United Nations Security Council what more can be can be do follow last week ' s event there . the 25 million people who be starve at the moment in Sudan be obviously victim of the most ghastly proxy war . what engagement do the Government have with the UAE on all this , and on its wide war objective , give the vast mineral deposit that exist across Sudan , include in Darfur , which clearly a lot of people have their greedy eye on ? the poor people in the poor place , as ever , be victim of this war . there have be a number of contribution this afternoon about the various country with an interest in the region . we of course continue to discuss the event in Sudan with all member of the Quad and all those in the region with an interest , include the UAE , which we speak to on Friday . I echo the comment of those who have highlight that the atrocity in Sudan be absolutely abhorrent , and I welcome the Minister ' s statement that we must hold those responsible to account , but may I ask for some further reassurance ? will he press for the expansion of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court to international crime commit across the whole of Sudan ? as I understand it , the ICC already have the necessary power , and indeed it have secure a conviction for crime commit in 2003 . I be sure that the House will not find news of that conviction reassuring , give that it be 20 year after the fact , but accountability measure take effect whenever possible , even after such a long delay , still make an important contribution to the international justice architecture . however , I be happy to look at the question of the mandate if the hon . Gentleman be concerned about it . I welcome the Minister ' s acknowledgment that the need to stop the horror in Sudan be urgent , but while I hear much talk of continue action , nothing , other than an emergency meeting call today , seem to be happen urgently . what step be he take to change , to move forward , to try some new thing , and to make something happen as a matter of urgency to stop this horrible conflict ? I remind the hon . Gentleman that , yes , we have call for an emergency meeting in the Human Rights Council today , and we have also be in discussion with our partner today . over the weekend we announce the provision of a furth £ 5 million . the Foreign Secretary have be extensively engage in discussion with all those with influence , and I have be play my part in the region this weekend as well . we will continue to be as imaginative and as determine as the House would expect we to be . rape and violence against woman and girl have be use as a weapon of war in El Fasher , with militia act with impunity . what support have be give to non - governmental organisation work on the ground to support the victim , and do the Minister agree that diplomatic effort must be ramp up to end this horrific situation ? I do agree with my hon . friend about the importance of diplomatic effort . we have provide support specifically to deal with sexual and gender - base violence , which have include send out a special team under the auspex of UN Women , and we be work closely with international NGOs through the Sudan Humanitarian Fund and other partner . the public watching will have be rightly confuse to hear the Minister and the shadow Minister speak of the importance of aid when it be their government who walk the aid budget back to 0 . 3 % , a large percentage of which be spend in the UK . what assessment have the Minister make of the UK ' s ability to support international aid effort in Sudan and , indeed , around the world ? I want to be so clear about what be the significant driver of hardship in Sudan . I be happy to have this debate at some other time , but it be absolutely clear that the driver of hardship be the conduct of the party . I be sure that there will be debate at other time about the overall question of aid percentage , but , as I say in my statement , Sudan have be protect , as have the aid for Gaza . we be try to focus on area where we can have the great impact , but when the primary issue be humanitarian access and the conduct of the party , it be right for we in the Chamber to focus on those question . the Independent Commission for Aid Impact , in its evidence to the International Development Committee , make some insightful observation about the focus of the Government as the penholder . in what way be the Minister use the strength of the UK to bring party together to stop the flow of arm , mercenary and other resource into Sudan ? we do of course use our role as penholder at the Security Council , but we try to use the full range of our obligation at the UN on this question , which include lead the core group on Sudan at the Human Rights Council . that be why we have take the action that we have take today . in addition to survive bomb , bullet and sexual violence , the 24 million people in Sudan be face an acute food shortage . accord to save the Children , people be eat leave , grass and even peanut shell to survive . that situation have be far compound by the expulsion of the World Food Programme ' s country director and emergency co - ordinator . what step , if any , have the Minister or his Department take to ensure that the World Food Programme and other UN agency can continue to deliver lifesave assistance immediately , without obstruction ? the hon . Gentleman have raise an important point . I can confirm that we have raise directly with both party to the conflict the importance of the issue that he have mention . what be happen in El Fasher be nothing short of catastrophic . my former colleague at the International Rescue Committee report that although more than 250 , 000 people live there , few than 5 , 000 have be able to flee and make it to nearby Tawila , which suggest that many may be dead , or trap in the city or along the route . can the Minister say more about what the Government be able to do to get these civilian out ? my hon . friend be experience in these matter , and she ask the right set of question . the detail of what have happen in El Fasher , and indeed what be still happen , be horrify , and continue to emerge from north Darfur . we be do everything we can to try to ensure the safe passage of civilian , but I must be clear with the House : progress be limited , and what civilian be face in north Darfur remain appal . I thank the Minister very much for his answer . open Doors report that there have be a spike in the abduction and killing of christian man , woman and child by radical islamist group . church leader have be target with false charge , include terrorism and apostasy , while christian convert face violence , force marriage , sexual violence , and lose custody of their child . many Christians be force to flee their home because they feel that to stay would be unsustainable . action for those persecute Christians be need . may I ask the Minister what can be do to protect Christians and religious minority , and to stop the violence against they ? freedom of religious belief be absolutely vital in the region , and I have raise these question in the region over the past few week . obviously , in the wide context that we be discuss , almost everyone be face very serious risk to their human right , but I will give the hon . Gentleman a further update in due course on what we have do in Sudan specifically . as I have say before , this be a war on woman , but woman be also fight hard as human right defender in the diaspora and in Sudan , whether they be run emergency response room or advocate for change . can the Minister say more about how we be ensure that our aid be go to grassroot , woman ' s right - base organisation ? in the discussion at the UN , in line with the Women , Peace and Security agenda , will we ensure that woman ' s voice be hear ? my hon . friend be a doughty champion on these issue , and I know that she have be commit to they both in the House and before her election . we be focus on ensure that our aid reach woman and on the issue that be face by they in particular , include — as I say early — sexual and gender - base violence . that include the work through both UN Women , which I describe , and mutual aid group , and a number of other measure . I will ask the Minister for Africa to set that out in more detail for my hon . friend . as people continue to flee from El Fasher to Tawila , a town that be already shelter some 652 , 000 displace people , it be clear that the situation on the ground in Sudan be not only extremely dangerous — not to mention barbarous in some case — but chaotic . it be likely that Sudan will need ongoing support for a very long time . have the Minister have those discussion with colleague at the UN and from other interested country , to make sure that that support be provide for the country , whenever we have the opportunity to give it that aid ? I wish we be in a position to talk about long - term question but , as I be sure my hon . friend will understand , as the frontline continue to move rapidly and the conflict remain in such an active phase , our effort have be most focused on the urgent question regard a ceasefire . I share the view of member across the House that the crisis in Sudan be simply not get enough focus from the world . I thank the Minister for his leadership in this area . the situation in Sudan be absolutely horrendous . in last week ' s attack on the maternity hospital in El Fasher , almost 500 civilian be kill . in the word of the UN relief chief , " woman and girl be be rape … mutilate and kill — with utter impunity " . we know that this be an increase trend across the world : more aid worker and health worker be be kill . what be the Government do to ensure that aid worker and health worker be not target ? what we be do to tackle rape and sexual violence in conflict ? will the Minister also remark on the fact that 11 UN staff be still be hold hostage in Yemen by the Houthis — another example of attack on health and aid worker across the world ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that specific attack . the detail be truly horrify : maraud through a hospital , kill civilian ward by ward , include the sick and the injure . this be a barbaric attack , and it be vital that we seek accountability for it , not simply for the people of Sudan but because we can not , as a country or an international system , allow such thing to pass without that justice and accountability . my hon . friend raise an important point about Yemen ; the conduct of the Houthis have be appalling . I be pleased to inform the House that some of those detain UN official have now safely leave Yemen , but there be a worrying and deeply disturbing trend of Houthis capture aid worker . with regard to the attack on the hospital , it be estimate that 80 % of health facility in conflict - affect region be no long operate , and those that be operate face shortage of medicine and supply . that be lead to a resurgence of cholera , measle , dengue fever and malaria , as well as neglect tropical disease such as leishmaniasis , leprosy and onchocerciasis . what step be the Government take to ensure that humanitarian assistance and medicine be get to those who need they most ? my hon . friend raise an important point . Cholera be now endemic in Sudan , and the spread of waterborne disease be increasingly common in humanitarian crisis . I know that there be member on both side of the House with experience of post - disaster recovery . water and sanitation be always vital , and it be deeply disturbing that we be see these outbreak in so many place . the Government will continue to do all we can in the way I have describe . Curriculum and Assessment Review before we come to the statement from the Education Secretary , I should inform the House that Mr Speaker be disappoint that this announcement be widely trail in the medium this morning , before this House have an opportunity to hear directly from the Government . I remind the Government Front Benchers that the expectation set out in the Government ' s " Ministerial Code " be that : " when Parliament be in session , the most important announcement of government policy should be make in the first instance in Parliament . " I know that the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee be look into how that expectation be currently observe and whether it continue to meet the need of the House , and I look forward to see the outcome of that work . furthermore , engage directly with Mr Speaker on such announcement be no substitute for the courtesy that this House deserve . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I note your comment , and I will make sure that they be take forward . with permission , I would like to make a statement to update the House on this Government ' s plan to renew the national curriculum , to secure for every child an education steep in our rich history , ready to shape our country into the 2030 and beyond . as I outline the future of our national curriculum , I do so in full knowledge of its past , because I be part of the first wave to benefit from a process begin by Jim Callaghan ' s great education debate — his ambition for a curriculum of universal high standard . when Lord Baker introduce a national curriculum for the very first time in 1988 , my generation secure a common entitlement to share in the core wisdom that we as a nation value most . since then , our national curriculum have evolve under successive government , and now it must evolve again , because the world be change as never before as a result of artificial intelligence , machine learning and hyperconnectivity . where once our young people have to compete locally , the play field be now global . they be step into a world of huge opportunity , but it be also one of immense change and challenge — a muddy landscape of misinformation and social medium . our current curriculum no long arm they for this brave new world . it lack the breadth of knowledge and skill that our child need , not only for the job they will go on to do , but for the life they will go on to lead . we need more , and they need more . our curriculum sit at the centre of an education system that have forget too many child — white working - class child ; child with special educational need and disability ; the child who be bright but bored , not engage as they should be and not achieve as they should . that be why I ask Professor Becky Francis and an external panel of expert to review our curriculum , assessment and qualification — to equip every child and every young person to achieve and thrive . I thank Professor Francis and the whole panel for their hard work and expertise . the review ' s final report and our government ' s response have both be publish today . we will publish a revised curriculum in 2027 for first teaching in 2028 ; we will update our gcse for first teaching from 2029 ; and we be plan to deliver new v - level qualification from 2027 . this government be face the future boldly , take our education system from narrow to broad . that mean a curriculum rich in knowledge , strong on skill , and , in everything that we do , uncompromise on high standard , ground every child ' s education in the most important knowledge and disciplinary skill to master every subject — more specific on the most important content , to sharpen understanding , and more coherent in how different subject slot together , to spark connection . it will be a truly world - lead curriculum : supportive , challenging , and urge all child on . the House should be in no doubt that I will put high standard to work , in the service of every child ' s future . our work start in the early year . through our Best Start family hub , we be support parent as their child take those first step into learning . we be set the foundation for their future : develop language early , expand the reach of math champion , and introduce child to number early on . as child arrive at school , they will begin to master the core subject — the one that unlock the rest of the curriculum — and read especially . whether it be for step - by - step instruction in a science experiment or a question in math , reading be essential in every subject . it add texture , colour and context — such as in history , by read letter from soldier on the frontline of the second world war . we have to build that right from the beginning . that be why we be introduce new training for reception teacher , to meet our ambition for 90 % of child to reach the expect standard in the phonic screening check . we will double our reading ambition for all teacher training , for child who need the most help , reach more than 1 , 200 primary school , and we will train more teacher in 600 school to help they teach read fluency . together with reading must come write and speak , because in life we all need to express ourselves clearly and confidently , whether out loud or in writing . in July we publish the new writing framework , which include evidence - base way to teach writing to child , and we be now go far by improve the primary writing assessment to focus on fluency . we will also design a new oracy framework to support child to become assured and fluent speaker and listener by the time they leave primary school . too many child be fall through the gap in the jump to secondary school , include on read . learn not just to read , but to read well , must be the entitlement of every child . it be the single most powerful driver of life chance that we have , yet too often problem that begin in primary be leave to drift in those first year of secondary . the focus fade just when it should intensify . to make sure that every school be on top of this , we be introduce a new statutory reading test for all pupil in year 8 . we will expect all school to assess progress in writing and math in year 8 as well , check excellence in those vital skill . our new regional improvement for standard and excellence — rise — key stage 3 alliance will spread excellence from one school to the next . all child will benefit from a new combine oracy , read and write framework that will be embed across the entire secondary curriculum , and the brand - new digital version of the national curriculum will help teacher to strengthen connection across subject and stage . on those firm foundation , we will build choice and breadth as child move into secondary school . that mean prepare they to tell fact from fiction , truth from lie and right from wrong . our young people need a rich core of knowledge and skill — the high standard that I be determined to drive — but we must take literacy far and wider . the reform english programme of study and english language GCSE will open student up to a wide range of text to see how argument be make across different type of medium , to discover the power of persuasion and emotive language in different context , and to understand how they can be use not just to educate but to manipulate — exploit by dark force online to spread lie and sow division . that be why we be build medium literacy to prepare young people not to consume passively , but to engage critically and to recognise and reject disinformation . we be not just boost medium literacy . we be also boost digital literacy through a reform computing curriculum to allow pupil to navigate the opportunity and challenge of AI and much more , and we be boost financial literacy to empower young people to make informed choice about money , save and investing . all our plan aim to take education from narrow to broad . we need a fundamental shift in what we value in our secondary school . for that , we need a fundamental shift in how we measure attainment and progress to deliver the breadth that we want to see . today I can announce that we will consult on improved version of Progress 8 and Attainment 8 , because the current structure hold we back in subject that strengthen our economy and our society . too often it restrict choice , turn child away from subject like drama , art and design , and music . our creative industry be a source of such national pride , but as Ed Sheeran have say so powerfully , we can not continue to lead on the world stage without a broad base in our school at home . the art should be for all , not just a lucky few , so we will revitalise art education , put it back at the heart of a rich and broad curriculum . to encourage variety to flourish in our curriculum , we will measure what matter . we will balance breadth with a strong academic core and promote mastery of the fundamental , combine with student choice . we will strive for academic excellence , on a broad scale , in every classroom , art studio , dance hall and science lab . in those science lab , a new triple science entitlement will give all young people the good opportunity to get into exciting new career in clean energy , digital technology and life science . we will build the strong science , technology , engineering and mathematic foundation , and introduce a new computing GCSE so that student can excel in the new advanced digital and AI qualification , address critical skill gap in the tech sector . we will go far , too , with a new enrichment entitlement for all that include civic engagement , culture , nature and adventure , and sport , which will deepen child ' s investment in their time at school . the curriculum can not begin and end in our school ; it must stretch from the good start in life programme to the post - 16 White Paper . last month , I update the House on our plan for skill . much of that be about support young people to build on this new curriculum and to make their post - 16 choice from a clear landscape of a - level , t - level and the new v - level , with clear pathway through learning and into work , which will help they to develop skill to find a good job and get on in life . Professor Francis and the expert panel have deliver a strong set of recommendation , upon which we will now build . our new curriculum will be an expression of who we be as a modern nation — the knowledge , skill , value and idea that will bring we together and take we forward , build on the past to shape the future . for family who have withdraw from education , the new national curriculum will be a chance to rediscover the power of learn once again . for every child across the country , it will be an invitation not just to share in our national story , but to write the next chapter . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . I also thank Professor Francis for her work — any criticism of today ' s announcement be direct not at she , but at the Government ' s response to her review . I welcome some of the measure announce today . I be pleased that the Government have not move away from our phonic reform . in 2012 , only 58 % of six - year - old meet the expect reading standard ; today , the figure stand at over 80 % . primary school child in England be now the good reader in the western world . I also note the introduction of a year 8 reading test , which I support in principle . if properly implement , this could help to ensure that pupil maintain strong reading skill into secondary school . however , the review recommend math and english test , so why be the Secretary of State not introduce a statutory math test ? I have serious concern that the propose wide change will water down standard , low expectation and divert teaching time away from the core education , which give every child the good chance to get on in life . the temptation to make the curriculum a repository for every social concern be ever present , but when everything be a priority , nothing be . if we keep add and add , we risk dilute the very core that underpin academic success . there be many thing that the Government talk about add to the curriculum , but there be little honesty about what will be squeeze out as a result . I hope that the Secretary of State will be honest about what be be take out of the curriculum , particularly in primary school . let I make some specific point . first , the review state : " it be vital that school and college be able to innovate … and that teacher have the flexibility to extend the curriculum " . I agree , but the Government ' s disastrous Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill do precisely the opposite , by make the national curriculum compulsory for all school and strip away teacher ' freedom to adapt to the need of pupil . it be nonsensical to talk about innovation while stifle it . the Secretary of State should abandon her assault on academy freedom . secondly , the Government propose to reduce the number of exam by 10 % , on the ground that " only Singapore do more " . well , Singapore also top the international league table in math and literacy . surely we should be learn from Singapore ' s education system , not disparage it . thirdly , the Government propose to abolish the english baccalaureate , which we put in place in order to give all child the chance to learn an academic core . scrap the EBacc be a backwards step . it will steer pupil away from history and language , leave few child with an understanding of our national story and few equipped to engage in a global economy . the irony be not lose on I that the Education Secretary herself study history and language . why be she pull up the drawbridge behind she and deny more young people the very opportunity that she benefit from ? fourthly , the Education Secretary will introduce a new compulsory citizenship curriculum for primary school . force primary school to use precious time to teach deprive pupil about media literacy and climate change before ensure that they can read , write and add up be not go to encourage social mobility , which I think Labour Members care about . it be not clear at all how they be go to make time for this . what aspect of child ' s education be be sacrifice for the Secretary of State ' s political posturing ? as for new lesson on digital literacy and misinformation , I feel like a broken record . the Education Secretary say on the radio this morning , " I be worried about child spend hour in their bedroom look at poisonous material that drip hate in their ear . " I agree . the right hon . Lady be right and I have a very easy solution : get smartphone out of school and ban all our under - 16s from social medium . that do not need a lesson . it be something the Government have the power to do right now to help child with the vile content that they be see online , and to address the behaviour issue that we be see in school — social media - drive knife crime and effect on attainment . I think the Education Secretary need a lesson on social medium harm , not child . finally , I turn to the right hon . Lady ' s change to school accountability . Professor Francis be clear in her report : do not change Progress 8 . she write : " we be strongly committed to the Progress 8 measure … it support both student progress and curriculum breadth . we be therefore recommend make no change " . yet the Education Secretary have overrule the review — the independent review that she commission herself . why ? we have be here before . under the last Labour Government standard fall , ambition shrank and the attainment gap widen . the number of pupil study core academic subject halve . Britain slide down international ranking . it take conservative reformer , like Michael Gove and Nick Gibb , to turn that around with evidence - drive policy , rigorous assessment and high expectation . order . Ms Trott , you have run over your time . I hope you be go to conclude very quickly . that formula work , with english school storm back up the global ranking . we on the conservative Benches will always stand up for rigour , evidence and the life - change power of high standard . we will fight labour ' s education vandalism every step of the way . the right hon . Lady say at the start that any criticism be level my way , but she then go on to criticise many of the recommendation in the review . have she even bother to read it at all ? she come here time and again , every single time full of sound and fury , signify nothing — and yes , Shakespeare be here to stay on the national curriculum . she try to paint the report and our response as undo the achievement in school . nothing could be far from the truth . we be not abandon it ; we be build on it , with a curriculum that will allow all young people to achieve high standard , with core academic subject alongside the breadth that they deserve . our reform have high standard right at their heart . they will raise standard of pupil right across the curriculum , include in speak and listening , reading , writing and math . our improve Progress 8 and Attainment 8 measure will ensure that student retain a strong academic core , but with a breadth to expand into further study . the right hon . Lady might oppose the change we be set out , but today they have win support from the Sutton Trust , from employer like the CBI and from Sir Hamid Patel , the wonderful leader at Star Academies , who back the change we be make , say that they " signal both a welcome emphasis on creativity — reflect amazing career opportunity … but with continued affirmation that success in English and mathematic be crucial for everyone ' s life chance . " I could not agree more . we know that it be important that our new measure provide breadth and enrichment . leave aside that the art and creative subject be worth up to £ 125 billion to our country and employ 2 . 4 million people , I want more young people to have brilliant career and opportunity in those field . the two be not in opposition . we can and will deliver high and strong academic standard , alongside make sure that a broad and rich curriculum be the entitlement of every child . there be once a time when the Conservatives support that idea . it be why they introduce a national curriculum to apply in every school . we be restore the conservative principle of the national curriculum apply for every child . I benefit from that , and I want every child in our country to benefit from it . the curriculum have not be update for over a decade . parent want one that be fit for the future , employer back what we be do and child deserve it . the change we be set out today will secure well life chance for all our child . I welcome a curriculum review that will break down barrier . it open up so much of the digital and financial literacy that the Conservatives seem to think be unimportant to all , but which we know will raise aspiration by equip young people from all background . I have two question that I would like to ask the Secretary of State . one be on examination . we know that this country have an examination overload and I welcome the propose reduction by 10 % . it doesn ' t ! I will listen to the expert before I listen to the Front Bench any day — the Opposition Front Bench . [ Laughter . ] if the right hon . member listen , she will hear that . will the Secretary of State please look at the overall load throughout school , not just in GCSE year , and comment on how she see the introduction of an additional year 8 diagnostic panning out ? on my second question , I declare an interest as the vice chair of the all - party parliamentary group on modern language . we broadly welcome the Government ' s response , which go far than the recommendation , and the recognition of importance . it be right to scrap the EBacc , which have never really be take seriously by professional , but will the Secretary of State please say how she will stop uptake from drop immediately ? what other incentive will there be ? when will she deliver the feasibility review of the new qualification base on language ladder expertise , which be welcome by the sector ? on language , I share my hon . friend ' s determination to ensure that more young people have the chance to study modern language . there be a particular challenge that we face around transition from primary to secondary — the review make that clear — and that be one area for further action . on the EBacc , I be afraid that it do not have the outcome that be intend in improve language take - up : we be no far forward than we be in 2010 in percentage figure . we be see increase in the number of teacher come forward to train in modern language , and that be welcome . I also believe that a new step qualification will provide a useful route for more young people to move on to study language at GCSE . on exam and time , particularly at GCSE , Ofqual have be clear that a 10 % reduction in the time spend in exam — that amount to two and a half to three hour — be more than achievable while at no point compromise the integrity or the high quality and standard of the system . we will work with the regulator to make that happen . we be an international outlier on the amount of time our child spend in exam at GCSE . on the year 8 reading test , we will introduce a statutory reading test to ensure that problem be identify and child support . that will run alongside diagnostic math and write test to ensure that child be also make progress in those key area , but if you can not read well , you can not do anything else . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement and I thank Professor Becky Francis for her important work on the review . I welcome much of what have be announce today . as with free school meal and maintenance grant , this Secretary of State seem to enjoy adopt liberal Democrat policy . I particularly welcome more enrichment activity and citizenship education , include financial and media literacy . but today , many headteacher across the country will be ask about the how . how will we fund this when budget be already overstretch ? with specialist recruitment target miss year after year , include in physics , computer science and music , how will we find the subject specialist to deliver the new curriculum , not least the right to triple science at GCSE ? can the Secretary of State set out how she will protect time for other subject , give the welcome new enrichment entitlement ? have she consider use money from fall school roll to perhaps fund a long school day ? turn to the Secretary of State ' s claim about breadth , instead of scrap the EBacc do she consider broaden it ? have go explicitly against Professor Francis ' s recommendation to leave Progress 8 unchanged , the Government actually risk narrow choice . the new Progress 8 model pit language against creative art for the first time . these two change put together could mean the death of language in our state school . the review miss the opportunity to broaden a - level . the UK be an outlier in this regard . combine with the defunding of the international baccalaureate in state school , I worry that the Secretary of State ' s legacy will be that breadth become the preserve of the privately educate . the hon . Lady ask many constructive question . it be important that all young people have the chance to study triple science , and we will work with the sector on the implementation of that . we be see big increase in the number of teacher in initial teacher training , include in physics , but there be more to do ; we will work on this carefully with the sector . I do not think we can continue to defend a position where young people from disadvantaged background do not always have the chance to study triple science ; we know that if they have that opportunity , they be more likely to be able to go on to study a - level science subject , so there be an important social justice consideration that we have to take into account . teacher number be up and continue to go up , and teacher retention number this year be also move in the right direction . all child and young people should have equal access to development opportunity to help they to succeed , which be why we be set out a core enrichment offer that every school and college should aim to provide . the offer will be part of our enrichment framework , which we will develop with a group of expert across education , youth , sport and art sector to set out benchmark for school and college to build that offer . I know that many school already do this very well , and we want to build on the good success out there . we will also support the wide provision through dormant asset , our music hub , PE and school sport partnership and much more besides . this be a real opportunity to deliver a step change in ensure that all child get a firm foundation in the basic and a wide and broad education . I encourage the hon . Lady to look at the document that we have set out explain the recommend Progress 8 change , which we will go on to consult on . member should be in no doubt about the difference that these change will make , because when our young people succeed , society as a whole succeed . I wish to put on the record my thank to the Secretary of State for deliver on our promise of a curriculum that will well prepare child not just for exam , but for life . over the year , previous Education Secretaries — let ' s be real : we have have quite a few — lose sight of what school should really be about . it be about more than exam ; it be about prepare child for the modern world and the reality of life . this renew focus on oracy , read , writing , math and triple science , which be vital life skill to — order . this be a statement — you must have a short question . please finish quickly . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . financial and medium literacy be core skill to develop young people . how will the Secretary of State ensure that school have the funding , resource and preparation time necessary to implement the reform ? my hon . friend have a real passion for this area and bring her expertise to this House , and I be really grateful for that . we will refresh the programme of study and publish they in 2027 , so there will be an opportunity for consultation and contribution towards that . some of this be a question about how we well sequence our curriculum between different key stage ; that be an important element . it be important that young people in primary school have more citizenship education , include in the critical area of financial literacy . I be at the wonderful Ashmole primary school in Lambeth just yesterday , where I meet year 6 student who be do precisely that . if anybody try to say that year 6 student can not understand complicated concept around financial education , I would suggest that they pay a visit to that school and see the amazing work that be go on there . this be a thorough piece of work from Professor Francis . there be thing in it to welcome , include the retention of key stage 2 assessment and the triple science entitlement , although the Government will have to say where the resourcing will come from to make that a reality . in truth , there be other thing that we just do know yet . it remain to be see what the change in English literature mean and what will get squeeze out ; it also remain to be see what the new computing GCSE be relative to computer science — I hope it be not a return to the pre - computer science day of the information and communication technology GCSE . one thing I regret be the demise of the EBacc . let we remember what that be : a set of subject that be present clearly to child and their family , include and especially disadvantaged child , who , by study this core set of subject , will keep their option most open and have the most opportunity to progress in life . the EBacc do increase uptake for history and geography . it could have be mitigate if the Secretary of State have keep Professor Francis ' s recommendation to retain the structure of the current Progress 8 . why do she ignore that recommendation ? be she give up totally on modern foreign language ? no , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I set out early , it be important that young people have the opportunity to study triple science . I recognise that the implementation and delivery of that will be important , and we will work with the sector to do that . the number of those enter initial teacher training in subject such as physics have increase massively this year , but there be more to do , include through subject knowledge enhancement , which we also want to provide to more teacher in other science subject . I recognise what the right hon . Gentleman say about computing ; it be important to get this right . every area where there will be change will be subject to full consultation with expert input . Computing be one area where we also need to ensure that there be the opportunity to refresh content more regularly , give the pace of change . we will of course ensure that the qualification be rigorous . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the review and welcome much of Professor Francis ' s work , for which I be grateful . the review find that the EBacc measure do not translate into increase study of those subject at 16 to 19 and unnecessarily constrain student choice , affect student ' engagement and achievement . our revise Progress 8 measure will balance a strong academic core with breadth and student choice . I believe that be the right approach , but we will consult on the option . I warmly welcome this curriculum and assessment review and in particular what it say about a broad curriculum and the importance of enrichment and essential skill such as digital , financial and media literacy and communication . will my right hon . friend go far and look at introduce a skill passport , so that young people can have the skill they be learn in school properly recognise for both themselves and employer ? my hon . friend always champion child and young people in his constituency and have a lot to offer with his background in education . I would be happy to discuss his idea far with he . I be go to leave wide criticism of this review to other . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people , I welcome the recognition of all the lobbying that have go into this review . financial education be make a statutory requirement at primary school and its position be strengthen at secondary school be good measure . the one area where I want to push the Secretary of State far be on post - 16 financial education . the review make reference to many example of good practice around the country , but it stop short of offer idea on how we can continue to progress financial education at a time when young people be begin to take financial decision themselves . will the Secretary of State work with the APPG to develop this area far ? I would be keen to hear the hon . Gentleman ' s idea and those of the all - party parliamentary group , and I thank he for the work he be do in this important area . I be glad that he welcome many of the change we be set out around financial education . I note what he have to say about post - 16 , and I will make sure that those idea be consider . the curriculum and assessment review find that the system have inequality build into it especially for child with special educational need and disability and those from disadvantaged background . will the Secretary of State set out what intervention will be bring in to provide support and help for those with special educational need and disability and those from disadvantaged background so that they be not leave behind , especially during the transition from the current curriculum to the new one ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the need to ensure that child with special educational need and disability secure well outcome and have well support through their education and their school life . every child in our country deserve the good possible school experience , and that be especially true for child with SEND , many of whom do not feel that that be a reality and whose parent be really struggle . that be why , through our school White Paper and the wide work we will be take forward around SEND reform , we will ensure that their voice be hear through a co - creation process as we move to a well system of support — one where every child in our country can achieve and thrive . order . we have just 30 minute remain , so colleague will have to be brief . department for Education datum show that only 22 . 7 % of student retake GCSE English or math post - 16 achieve a grade 4 or above . this mean that many young people be trap in a loop , and they often miss the grade by one point . what step will the Secretary of State take to ensure that student who be unlikely to achieve grade 4 in GCSE math and English be offer practical alternative pathway so that they can succeed in these important subject ? the hon . Lady be right to raise that point . this be an area that the review draw attention to . we will develop a new 16 to 19 level 1 stepping - stone qualification as a preparation for GCSE for low attainer . the review be clear about the importance of GCSE English and math , and I share that view . we need to make sure that more young people , especially those from disadvantaged background , secure a strong pass in English and math . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . as a former teacher , which I may have mention a few time in this place , I broadly welcome this curriculum review . I also welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to support teacher through this change . when the previous Government for some random , unknown reason decide to change GCSE grade from letter to number , teacher get very little to no support or resource . can the Secretary of State guarantee that that will not happen on this occasion and that she will do what she can to support teacher through this change ? I agree . we want to make sure that teacher be ready for the new curriculum . we will introduce a digital version of the national curriculum to support teacher to more easily sequence their school curricula . we will also provide high - quality free digital resource through Oak National Academy , as well as more curriculum support and continue professional development . our rise team will work with school and school leader to drive up standard . now for a short question masterclass from Sir Desmond Swayne . this be education in the cloud when contrast with the reality of a war against elitism , which be so often actually a war against excel - ism on the ground , be it not ? no . I warmly welcome the statement . with improved medical care , early diagnosis and great awareness , more child with special educational need be be identify . how will my right hon . friend ensure that school have the right environment , staff , funding and resource for SEND child to get the most of the positive change in the curriculum ? we be invest more in our SEND system and in teacher training and development , include new SEND content for those enter the profession , but there be much , much more that we need to do , as we have discuss in this House on many occasion . I know that my hon . friend care very deeply about improve outcome for child with SEND , and I look forward to work with she as we bring forward the school White Paper and reform that deliver a brilliant experience for child with SEND throughout our school system . we welcome the Government ' s ambition to see art and outdoor enrichment education include at the heart of the school curriculum , and we have some phenomenal outdoor ed go on in South Devon . we have long call for a broaden EBacc include art subject , but without clear incentive to encourage or require their inclusion , why will school prioritise these experience for pupil when they be under already severe budgetary pressure from the Government ' s many unfunded commitment ? we be invest more in our school and provide more support to teacher . Enrichment be important . that be why we will develop the framework with expert across education , youth service , sport and art sector to make it a reality . I encourage the hon . Lady to look at the proposal we be set out on Progress 8 reform , because I think it will deliver the breadth , alongside the academic core , that she seek . I warmly welcome the further support for creative art subject teaching , the new national centre and the £ 25 million for new instrument and much more . right hon . and hon . member with a musical background , such as the Prime Minister and I , know the transformative power of the creative art — the soft and hard skill be just as impactful as in other subject . can my right hon . friend confirm that the Government will continue to turn up the volume , bang the drum , create a symphony and maybe even reach the tempo of " presto " on this issue , so that we can finally achieve creative art for all ? absolutely . we be invest through our music hub and the new national centre to make that a reality . by the end of next year , we will have deliver 130 , 000 new instrument , piece of equipment and other music technology to school to support our young people to pick up instrument and create music . later today , the Government will publish their financial inclusion strategy . I welcome the step forward for financial literacy . will the Secretary of State collaborate with the Economic Secretary and use the wealth of expertise and enthusiasm that exist among the bank and financial service industry to ensure that maximum stride forward can be make in financial literacy across the whole age range ? the right hon . Gentleman have do a lot of work in this area . what he suggest be very sensible , and I will certainly take that forward . I be sure my hon . friend the Minister for School Standards would also be happy to discuss it with he . I really welcome the review ' s focus on social justice and the critical skill need for work and life . we know that young people face an unprecedented mental health crisis . can the Secretary of State reassure I that young people ' s wellbeing will be a material consideration for her Department in implement the review ' s recommendation , particularly on assessment reform ? do she agree that mental wellbeing and resilience be also critical skill that we should support young people to develop , and that they too should be include in reform of the curriculum ? I agree with my hon . friend . it be why we be roll out more mental health support across our school to make sure that at the early possible point when problem arise , young people have access to high - quality mental health support . alongside that be the enrichment framework and the opportunity there will be in music , sport , art and drama . we know that those subject be important way in which young people do not just find a passion and a joy but develop resilience , confidence , teamwork and much more . that be really important in what be sometimes a very difficult world for our young people . as the Member of Parliament for Tiverton and Minehead — Minehead be one of the most deprived area in the country , stand 324th out of 324 in the social mobility index — I wholeheartedly commend what the Secretary of State have announce . however , I have grave concern about the state of the school in my constituency , particularly Tiverton high school , and the paucity of teacher , particularly in the art subject that the Secretary of State have quite commendably support . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise this issue ; I know she always bang the drum for her constituency , and we have discuss this many time . if she require an update on wide issue , I will be more than happy to make sure that she get one from the new Minister . it have be 10 year since the last review , and the economy , education and , frankly , the world have move on dramatically in that time , so I welcome the review . subject and activity like music , drama , art , play and debating have often have little to no attention and resource . will the Secretary of State please assure I that she will learn from the good school in the country and local authority like my own , which have continue to invest in the " 10 by 10 " initiative , so that that can be cascade across the country ? my hon . friend have do amazing work in this area to make sure that child in his community have access to a wide range of opportunity . I agree that the good school provide academic stretch as well as a broad and rich curriculum . it can be do , and we will make sure that it happen in every school . scrap the EBacc mean potentially reduce the exposure of disadvantaged child to modern foreign language , and the problem with that — a bit like their access to classic in the past — be that they will become relatively disadvantaged when it come to place at elite university . do the Secretary of State agree that we must make sure that that do not happen , since we all want to see improve social mobility in this country — and scrap the EBacc look like a very funny way of do it ? I agree with the right hon . member in so far as he be say that we should make sure that a range of subject be available to young people , include language , and that young people should have a good range of option , include the chance to go on and study at university . I think it be important alongside that , as the Prime Minister set out in his target , that two third of young people move into high - level learning — be that through an apprenticeship or university . that be why we be also invest more in post - 16 education . I do not accept what he have to say about the EBacc or Progress 8 . it do not work as intend , and it have not solve the problem that he suggest it would . our revise Progress 8 measure will ensure that we have a strong academic offer for all young people alongside the breadth and choice that they deserve . do the Secretary of State agree that there must be strong support from school leadership and local authority for individual teacher as they , rightly , teach social medium literacy ? do she agree that the review ' s focus on social medium literacy must be accompany by strong co - ordination on this issue across Government ? my right hon . friend be right to highlight that , and I agree . some amazing opportunity come from the use of technology and computing and from give our young people the skill they will need to succeed . however , we also see the danger that exist , with the big challenge from misinformation online that teacher tell I they be have to deal with day in , day out . they will have more support to make that happen with more of a focus on the area that matter most . we will consult on all the change to the new programme of study . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s reference in her statement to adventure and nature . will she go far and agree that it be essential that every child at primary school and secondary school have an outdoor education residential experience because of the wonderful advantage it give they in build resilience throughout their life and develop a love of learn once they be in the classroom ? will she commit to do that and to meet the all - party parliamentary group for outdoor learning so that we can talk about how this should be at the centre of the curriculum ? either I or the Minister for School Standards will be happy to meet the all - party group . the hon . Member make a powerful case , which I be sure we can take forward as we consider the enrichment framework . I have many happy memory of residential in his part of the world when I be at school : they be life - change and always stay with you . I want to ensure that more young people have access to the outdoor and to brilliant opportunity like residential . I welcome the inclusion of community history and the acknowledgment of its importance . do the Secretary of State think that project such as the Addison project , which look at a category d village in my constituency , help child to develop digital skill , learn and thinking skill and practical skill ? that sound like a wonderful project in my hon . friend ' s constituency . when our child study history , it can often be bring to life by local example that demonstrate a wide connection to our nation ' s past but also allow we to shape our future . it be in precisely those kind of example where I want teacher to have more opportunity to expand child ' s mind and provide they with great opportunity . it be welcome news that the Government plan that child should be teach critical thinking and how to guard against fake news and misinformation , but the Secretary of State will be aware that some teacher , like some politician , regard " fake news " differently from the rest of society . will she ensure that teacher who teach that subject be school in the knowledge of the requirement for political impartiality in school introduce in 1986 and carry forward in subsequent legislation ? the right hon . member be right to draw attention to the importance of political impartiality . the review find that the current non - statutory status of citizenship be lead to uneven and inconsistent progress in the subject . there be the chance to do this well to ensure that it be teach well and that young people be able to think critically and challenge what be in front of they . that be more important than ever give how some of those who be hostile to our nation ' s interest seek to use social medium to exploit division and poison the mind of our young people . I be delighted to bring the Chancellor of the Exchequer to my constituency to visit JPMorganChase ; soon after , it announce £ 350 million of investment . one of the question of the global chief executive officer be : how do we retain local talent ? financial education be a critical answer . I therefore welcome the Government ' s announcement . I be also pleased that the Secretary of State visit Bournemouth East and meet 12 head of primary and secondary school . this be among the thing that they be cry out for . will she let I know what I can tell the head of my school about how the new curriculum will improve the life of the child they teach ? it be wonderful to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency and meet so many of the wonderful school leader who be change child ' s life . we will work with our teacher and school leader to implement the new national curriculum to ensure that they have the support and that we have the right time allocate to implementation . there will be four term ' notice , so there will be ample chance for teacher to adjust their teaching ahead of roll out the new curriculum . I be delighted that my hon . friend welcome our emphasis on financial education and the benefit that it will bring to his community in Bournemouth . I welcome the review ' s emphasis on prepare young people for a change world through thing like media literacy , political literacy and climate literacy . my question be about pace . the Secretary of State mention implementation in 2028 - 29 , but that be too slow give the urgency of these problem — by that point , today ' s 12 - year - old may be vote in the next election . what will she do to speed up implementation of those critical part of the curriculum before then ? I see that there be a balance to strike . some colleague be rightly urge we to ensure we get the implementation right , but I understand the hon . member ' s impatience to make it happen . it be right that we update our curriculum to improve climate and sustainability education in geography , science , citizenship , and design and technology , but we do need to ensure that it be do properly . of course , school will be able to teach the new national curriculum soon if they so choose , but do so will not be a requirement until 2028 . I welcome Professor Francis ' s work on the review , and the Government ' s commitment to uphold many of her recommendation , particularly on professional autonomy and digital literacy . the review recognise the class attainment gap that be hold back so many working - class child . what step will my right hon . friend take to ensure that the implementation of the curriculum review focus resource on the place that need they most ? the Government be commit to ensure that a person ' s background do not determine what they can go on to achieve . to take one example from the review , it be clear that on leave primary school , too many young people do not have the reading and writing skill that they need to succeed later in life , and the attainment gap sadly widen throughout their secondary school career . we will take action by provide more support around reading , include through a statutory test in year 8 , so that school well identify and target support at the student who have the most to gain . that will extend to many disadvantaged child in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I welcome the broadening of the curriculum , which will allow more child to find joy in learning , particularly child with special educational need , who really need the benefit of creative skill . as a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for perform art education and training , and as the mother of a musical theatre undergraduate , I be concern about the cut announce just last month to teacher training bursary in the creative art . will the Secretary of State confirm that they will be reverse , so that we have enough creative teacher ? we have to target our bursary and financial support at the area and subject where they be most need , and that be what we have seek to do through the bursary and financial support that we have put in place . however , I welcome the hon . member ' s support for art and creative education . the review and the Government ' s response to it have be widely welcome by the creative sector . I warmly welcome the review and the Secretary of State ' s statement . I be particularly pleased that the Sutton Trust be wholeheartedly behind the review . will she say a little more about the importance of triple science , and how she hope that will benefit social mobility across the country ? my hon . friend be right . at the moment , access to triple science be uneven , with big gap in access for disadvantaged student and big geographic inequality . it will take time to ensure that we have the subject specialist in place to deliver that , but all child in our school should be entitle to do triple science , so that they can go on to study the relevant a - level and t - level subject . there be a lot to support in the announcement , and I particularly welcome the Secretary of State ' s word about the importance of financial education from primary onwards . if that be do well , it could have a positive impact on our community for decade to come . we all know that the key to great learning be fantastic teaching . I be in my 20th year as a primary school governor , so I understand why school leader will be question how they can afford to pay for what have be announce from their already stretch budget . will the Secretary of State assure all the primary schoolchildren in my constituency that there will be enough brilliant teacher on hand who be properly resource to deliver what she have announce ? I know that this can be do only through the amazing work of our teacher , our support staff and our school leader . we will work with they as we roll out the new national curriculum . we be invest more this year and every year in our school . we have also deliver two pay award for our teacher . this year , we have see 2 , 300 more secondary and specialist teacher , and we be retain more teacher across the board . we have achieve a lot , but there be more to do . I look forward to work with the hon . member on that . at a recent Burton and District chamber of commerce meeting that I host , business raise the importance of financial education for young people about mortgage , saving and pension . it appear that the Secretary of State be listen . what support she will give teacher , so that they can deliver that effectively ? I always listen to my hon . friend ' s contribution on these important subject . give what we have hear from business , parent and young people , we want to make sure that young people have a well grounding in key concept in financial education , be that mortgage , saving or the difference between a debit and a credit card — something I be discuss yesterday with in a wide - range conversation with a group of year 6 student . the Secretary of State rightly point to the challenge of disinformation — a challenge that democracy be lose . I would welcome her agreement that education be our great weapon against disinformation . which of her change will ensure that those vote in future general election be well prepared to vote in their interest than those of we who go before ? as we move towards vote at 16 , it will be important that our young people understand our democracy , our law , our history , and their responsibility as active citizen . that be why we want to make sure that there be well statutory teaching of citizenship in primary school , and improvement at secondary as well . there be much brilliant practice already out there , but there be more to do to spread it . there be a lot to welcome in the statement , but will the Secretary of State please assure I and family in St Helens North that not only will we have the measure in the curriculum review , but more certainty will be provide in the school and SEND White Paper in the new year , and that all proposal to help all pupil , such as extend continuous provision throughout the whole of key stage 1 , will be consider ? yes . in the school White Paper , we will set out our vision for the school system into the 2030 and beyond . a central part of that will be how we well support child with SEND . so many young people face an adversarial system , in which it take too long to get the right support , and in which parent have to battle and fight . that be why the guide principle behind everything that we do in this area will be well outcome and well life chance for child with SEND . I be always willing to discuss with my hon . friend the change that he believe be necessary . understand history have a massive impact on social attitude and people ' s relationship with community . will the Secretary of State therefore look carefully at the primary school history curriculum to make sure that it include a good understanding of global history and the concept behind it , as well as a big emphasis on local history and local achievement , to improve cohesion in our community ? that way , young people grow up will have that great sense of involvement with the rest of the world , as well as with their local community . high - quality history education should allow student to understand both our role in the world and local history . there be many powerful example of how learn about local history can really bring a topic to life . to give one example , early this year , I help unveil a statue to woman shipyard worker in Sunderland who step in to replace the man who go to the second world war . that really bring the topic to life . it be a fantastic example of how we can combine the local and the national to understand our past and look to the future . early this year , I hold a debate on access to sport in school , and one of my key point be how vital sport be for child ' s mental health , and particularly for build their resilience . I be pleased that the review recognise that , and recommend broaden physical education ' s role to reflect its wide impact on pupil ' mental and physical health . do the Secretary of State agree that improve access to sport for all pupil be vital for build resilience in young people , especially as we know that there be child who do not have enough access to sport ? I agree that PE and sport be vital element of the rounded and enrich education that every child deserve . they can also motivate young people , give they a sense of purpose , help with wellbeing challenge and much more besides . that be why we have commit to strengthen the national curriculum for PE , and we want to work with many fantastic sporting body and other organisation that deliver enrichment activity , through the enrichment framework , to deliver that . I welcome many of the change the Government have bring forward . the review highlight the attainment gap for people with SEND at school . to close that gap , will the Secretary of State commit to universal screening for neurodivergence , and to more teacher training on the subject for those teach primary school - aged child ? though strengthen the phonic screener be great , it be not enough . I agree about the need to provide well training and support for teacher and support staff . that be why this year , for the first time , there be expand content on SEND in initial teacher training . however , there be more to do around teaching , training and support for the exist workforce . we be consider all that through the school White Paper , as well as what more we can do to support staff , so that they can well identify early need and put in place the require support . it will also be important to do that through our Best Start family hub , in which we can work with family at a much early stage . this review be hugely welcome because it begin to help we address what we have know for a long time : the creative subject in our school have be in decline . that be bad not just for young people , but for society and our national life . may I first urge the Secretary of State to learn from this review , and implement a national centre for art and music education ? that would be an important intervention from the Government . secondly , on what she say about civic engagement , may I urge she to go beyond the review ' s recommendation on learn about local history ? every young person must learn about their locality to build a real sense of place and identity . my hon . friend always champion the importance of music education , and the right of every child to access to music . our new national centre for art and music education will provide support for school and teacher in deliver the reform curriculum , and I be delighted that 43 music hub be roll out music instrument tuition , and opportunity to take part in music production and creation . I know that he will continue to champion those thing . the Secretary of State acknowledge in her statement the progress gap for child with SEND . how will the Government support flexibility in the delivery of the curriculum , include for those child who be unable to access a traditional school setting ? I recognise the challenge , and I have hear directly from many child and family about the struggle that they face . the review look closely at this area . I understand what the hon . Lady be say , and I recognise its importance , but alongside that , we need to continue to have high expectation of what child with SEND can achieve with the right level of support . through the school White Paper , we will set out how we make that a reality for every child . I welcome Professor Francis ' s review . on the critical issue of SEND , do my right hon . friend agree that the review ' s finding — on flexibility , time for repetition and revision , early identification of need and the role of special educational need and disability co - ordinator in ensure an inclusive curriculum — could go a long way to ensure that school be a positive experience for all pupil , not just a highly academic few ? we want to build on the review ' s work in this important area , and we will set out more detail next year , through the school White Paper . we know that outcome for child with SEND be not where they need to be . parent and family have to battle , and it can all be an uphill struggle . that be why early identification of need and more support for family , as well as well training and support for our staff , will be critical element of any reform programme . food and farming be almost entirely missing from the national curriculum , leave young people with limited understanding of where their food come from , or awareness of career opportunity in agriculture and the food system . what plan do the Secretary of State have to embed agriculture , environment and food study into the national curriculum , to inspire the next generation to pursue career in those sector ? the review set out recommend change in a number of relate area to those that the hon . Lady have raise . through revise programme of study , we will look carefully at how we deliver that . there will be opportunity for consultation throughout the process , before a full national roll - out . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and for her commitment to our young people . parent and teacher will know just how gruelle the GCSE exam be for our student , many of whom be undertake mock as we speak . I welcome the commitment to work with Ofqual to reduce time volume by 10 % . will the Secretary of State outline any other step that have be discuss , follow the report about manage the sheer volume of exam that our young people be take ? the review take an evidence - drive approach , inform by the datum , with input from across the sector and expert , to make sure that we get this right . however , it do not seek to fix thing that be not break . I recognise that young people in England sit more hour of exam than their peer in many other country . we will therefore work closely with Ofqual and exam board to reduce GCSE exam time by two and a half to three hour . Ofqual be confident that that can be achieve while maintain the integrity and validity of the qualification system . on Monday , I enjoy a coffee with a lovely couple in my constituency who run a charity with the goal of deliver e - book to primary school . although digital be often more difficult to read , in the sense that it be on a screen , it can go far , fast , in reach child , especially those who be disadvantaged . what consideration have the Secretary of State give to the importance of online reading ? in 2026 , it will be the National Year of Reading , and in our work on that , we be think about not just physical book that can be deliver to child , but what a strong digital offer could look like . I encourage the hon . gentleman to get involve in that process . I really welcome the effort to curtail the excessive examination time that our child be face . it do not help real learning and be have a big impact on the mental health of the young generation . what opportunity do the Secretary of State see for introduce more modern approach to teaching that offer opportunity to learn through play and would provide wide access to education than traditional method do ? we want to ensure that as we reduce GCSE content by 10 % , we do so , together with the regulator , in a way that maintain the validity and integrity of the system . there be a range of different approach that teacher can benefit from , and the Department provide much in the way of training and development . we always keep that under review to ensure that this be evidence - inform and drive by the good pedagogy . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . after I speak in the British Steel debate when the House be recall on a Saturday back in April , three newspaper from the Mirror Group publish false , inaccurate and , frankly , libellous statement about I that weekend , which be retweete by a number of Labour mp . I be pleased to report that the Independent Press Standards Organisation , the press regulator , have find in my favour against the Mirror Group , force it to apologise and to permanently delete those article and all the social medium post . I be most grateful to those Labour MPs who delete their post when they be so informed . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of what be not really a point of order . he have most definitely make his point . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder whether you have have any notification of a statement from the Ministry of Justice , and in particular from the Justice Secretary , about our interaction early and the very serious case that it now relate to . I have strong reason to believe that the Deputy Prime Minister be aware of the case when I ask he very clearly five time about whether he know about these sort of case and he do not answer the question . this be about Ministers be transparent with the House , and I seek your guidance . I thank the hon . member for give I notice of that point of order . I have receive no notice that the Secretary of State intend to make a statement , but those on the Treasury Front Bench will have hear that point of order and , I be sure , will take the hon . member ' s view into account . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the recent Cabinet Office annual account show that the depart Cabinet Secretary and the permanent secretary collectively receive a quarter of a million pound in golden goodbye . I ask the Minister for the Cabinet Office the rationale for such a use of taxpayer ' money , and the Minister without Portfolio reply that it be the Government ' s policy not to comment on individual . that be clearly nonsensical . there be a clear expectation of accountability and transparency on payment to the most public senior official , so do you agree that this approach be in keep with the House ' s resolution on ministerial accountability to Parliament ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . minister be responsible for their response to member ' question , so that be not a matter for the Chair , but no doubt those on the Government Front Bench will have note his question . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in the early hour of Monday morning there be a serious derailment at Shap in my constituency , on the Glasgow to London line . it be now Wednesday , but the Secretary of State for Transport have choose not to make a statement to the House on the matter . the derailment shine a worrying light on the failure to invest in the modernisation of the railway line north of Warrington up to Lockerbie , put passenger at risk on the busy line in the whole of western Europe . can you give we some guidance on how we can make our representation on that failure , and also voice our respect and admiration for the emergency service , the Network Rail staff , the Avanti crew , include the train driver , and the people at the Shap Wells hotel who look after the stricken passenger on that terrible Monday morning ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . as an experienced member , he know that while statement be make on the initiative of Ministers , there be other way for member to raise matter in this House . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I rise to ask whether my letter to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , date 23 October — on whether the deeply offensive comment she make to I and my independent alliance colleague in the Chamber on 20 October be in breach of the nolan principle of public life — will receive a reply . the football game be be hold tomorrow and the police assessment find that Maccabi Tel Aviv fan be experience fighter who be highly organised and intent on cause serious violence . the Secretary of State have not , to date , clarify whether she have see that advice before she decide to label I and those who welcome the ban on safety ground as antisemitic . can you advise I on what step I can take to seek redress with an apology or resignation ? can the hon . member confirm that he have actually notify the Secretary of State that he intend to raise this matter ? I be not sure . well , that would be good protocol . all correspondence from member to Ministers should be deal with promptly , and no doubt those on the Treasury Front Bench will have note this and will ensure that Back Benchers get answer to their correspondence in good time . Bill Presented Railways Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Heidi Alexander , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Steve Reed , Secretary Ed Miliband , Secretary Peter Kyle , Secretary Douglas Alexander , Secretary Jo Stevens and James Murray , present a Bill to make provision about railway and railway service ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Tuesday 11 November , and to be print ( Bill 325 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 325 - EN ) . Ferry Services ( Integration and Regulation ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the integration of ferry service with other transport service ; to make provision about the regulation of ferry service ; and for connected purpose . our great nation , the United Kingdom , be a nation of island . this country also invent the railway . rail , road and ferry together ensure that in every corner of our country there be a place that somebody call home . there be also a political consensus in this country , stretch back decade , that those who provide public transport do so with certain condition impose upon they . that political consensus have exist regardless of who be in government and which party hold power . that mean that train operator — whether they be soon to be part of the state or private company — must provide service for a fair price that the Government have a say over , and provide timetabling that allow people to move about , regardless of whether that individual train journey be profitable on its own . there be law to ensure that those operator must publish performance datum , and similar rule apply to bus service provider . however , there be no national provision that apply to those who operate the ferry service that communitie all over the country — whether island community or community that live along riverway — rely on for access essential service , employment , see friend and family , and all the thing we do in our daily life . that have mean that constituent such as mine on the Isle of Wight — they be just an example — be face with huge cost to take a car back and forth to the mainland , and that who wish to visit the Isle of Wight sometimes have to pay up to £ 400 just to take a car back and forth on a five - mile journey . private equity group have take control of Wightlink and Red Funnel , which operate across the Solent , and in an entirely unregulated market they can do what they like . there be no fair competition because the barrier to enter that market for a new provider be simply too high . it also mean that what be once half - hourly service be now hourly . when I arrive in Southampton last week , a minute late for Red Funnel ' s Red Jet service to Cowes , I have to wait an hour and 10 minute for the next ferry . have one of my predecessor , Andrew Turner — who be sit in the Gallery today — do that 10 year ago , he would have have to wait only half an hour . in too many place in this country , ferry service be get bad . there be no mandatory reporting requirement on those company either , so we have no objective way of tell whether they be provide a good service , other than the anecdotal evidence that people like I present . I be not look in this Bill to put an undue burden on ferry operator — quite the opposite . I be look to end the carve - out that they have enjoy for too long , a carve - out that no other public transport provider benefit from . if I have the owner of Wightlink and Red Funnel in front of I now , this be what I would say to they : " we be tired of your method , tired of your rip - off price , and tired of fund your huge ballooning bank debt interest . you have not do we a favour , and you be not do we a favour . you should be provide a lifeline transport service , which the taxpayer give you money for so that you could stay profitable during covid . " if those ferry company , not just on the Isle of Wight but across the UK , truly believe in a quality service for their passenger , they would embrace regulation , just as other provider do in other mode of public transport . too often , when my neighbour the hon . member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) or I make the argument about expensive ferry price , Wightlink in particular come back and say , " well , you can cross the Solent with we in a car for £ 31 . " but it fail to admit that that be only if a person pay nearly £ 2 , 000 in advance and purchase 60 individual ticket . there be not many people live in my constituency who can afford to give the company nearly £ 2 , 000 in advance and who necessarily need to travel 60 time in a year . ferry company must be straight and not seek to mislead or hoodwink decision maker in this place when other member and I talk about how expensive ferry service be . it be not just my constituent ; I have have exchange with the leader of the council of the Isles of Scilly , and we both share the view that our constituent be entirely reliant on ferry service for some educational opportunity and essential medical service and for access employment opportunity — thing that people on the mainland of the United Kingdom take for grant . there be no reason why we should be beholden to private profit over and above everyone else . I present this Bill at a time when the Government be already move in this direction in how they deal with rail and bus . while I do not necessarily agree with nationalisation , and I do not agree in the case of the railway , I agree with the sentiment and the reason why they be present those Bills . the Secretary of State have say that she want to ensure well value for money for passenger , to well integrate different mode of transport and to stop profit be a priority over passenger experience and connectivity . I invite she to transfer all that good sentiment she feel about train and bus to ferry , too , and ensure that community that I and other in this place serve be not leave behind . I thank the Minister with responsibility for maritime , the hon . member for Selby ( Keir Mather ) , for meet I , and I know that he have meet my neighbour the hon . member for Isle of Wight West . I urge the Minister to continue to work with we to look at solution for my constituent . I would also like the Government to bring in their own regulation for we and to devolve those power to a forthcoming mayor , if they think it appropriate . this Bill be about more than just my constituent ; it be about ensure a fair and level playing field across the whole United Kingdom . question put and agree to . order , that Joe Robertson , Mr Richard Quigley , Dame Caroline Dinenage , John Cooper , Rebecca Smith , Darren Paffey , Neil Duncan - Jordan , Jess Brown - Fuller , Andrew George , Si â n Berry and Jim Shannon present the Bill . Joe Robertson accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 November 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 324 ) . Employment Rights Bill consideration of Lords message I can inform the House that nothing in the Lords message engage Commons financial privilege . clause 1 - right to guaranteed hour I beg to move , that this House disagree with the Lords in their amendment 1b . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow Government motion : that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their amendment 23 and amendment 106 to 120 , do not insist on Commons amendment 106A but propose Government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) in lieu of Lords amendment 23 and Lords amendment 106 to 120 . that this House disagree with Lords amendment 48b . that this House disagree with Lords amendment 60B and 60C but propose Government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their amendment 61 and 72 but propose Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their amendment 62 but propose Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . I be pleased to speak on the Employment Rights Bill for our second consideration of Lords amendment , and I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) for her outstanding work on employment right and her unwavering advocacy for work people . I know how close this Bill be to her heart , and I be grateful that she be here in support today . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) for his work and dedication on this significant piece of legislation . the Government ' s top priority be to grow the economy and improve living standard . essential to that be the recognition that great productivity , security and dignity in work help to grow the economy . the strong economic performance that our country need can not be build on the back of people in insecure work . for too long employment law have fail to keep pace with the fundamental change to how , when and where we work . it be time to build a modern industrial relation framework , fashion on the principle of social partnership that consent and consensus must replace dispute and conflict in modern employment relation . that be good for worker and good for business . both suffer when one employer be undercut by another , use reduced term and condition of service for their employee . sustainable economic growth can not be build on unfair competition and insecure employment . the Employment Rights Bill extend the employment protection currently enjoy by some employee in the good british company to worker across the country . by do so , work will become more secure and predictable while strengthen the foundation that underpin a modern economy . the Bill will back business that already do the right thing and give hard - work people the job security and opportunity they deserve . it be in tune with the time and in keep with how the world of work be change . industrial relation law in this country must move from the 20th century to the 21st . it have to recognise that certainty and security be essential for people at work , that the good relationship between employer and employee be well exemplify by fairness and trust within a framework for recruitment and retention that value both , and that dignity at work be as vital to the effective functioning of modern society as the dignity of work . some will seek to use this issue to entrench the idea that employer and employee have oppose interest that must always inevitably result in dispute and strife , and I reject that view . the very good trade unionist know , as do the good employer , that such a view only represent failure . for this Labour Government , success be to be measure not in division , but in the share economic growth that we achieve , the opportunity and security we build and the prosperity we create , and that be at the heart of the Bill . today I ask the House to reaffirm its support for this important legislation as we move through the late round of parliamentary ping - pong . we have listen carefully to the concern that have be raise , and in response we be offer , where possible , amendment in lieu that we believe strike a fair and workable compromise with the propose amendment . although we appreciate the range of perspective offer , we will be unable to support certain amendment that conflict with the fundamental principle of the Bill and may compromise its intended impact . we acknowledge that Lords amendment 1b , which relate to zero - hour contract , be an amendment in lieu , intend as a compromise . it propose a shift from a full right - to - request model to one in which employer must notify worker of their right to a guarantee hour offer , and make a guarantee hour offer unless the worker decline or opt out . I appreciate the sentiment behind the amendment , but it would undermine the Bill ' s core aim of end exploitative contract and provide security for the worker who need it most . we therefore can not accept it . the Government be commit to end one - sided flexibility so that worker be not leave guess about their hour or pay . these reform reward fair employer , modernise the system and come with clear guidance to help everyone prepare . for employer , clear expectation mean well staffing and low recruitment cost through well retention . we also appreciate that some group , include young worker , value the flexibility of zero - hour contract . that be why worker will be able to decline a guarantee hour offer and remain on their exist arrangement if that work well for they . the Government be also commit to support young people into work . the youth guarantee will include a targeted backstop under which every eligible and unemployed young person on universal credit for 18 month without earn or learning will be provide guarantee pay work . the scheme form part of the Government ' s aim to provide target support for young people at risk of long - term unemployment . further detail will be confirm at the autumn Budget , follow further engagement , include with employer . let I turn to Lords amendment 48b on seasonal work . the Government recognise that work in certain sector fluctuate seasonally , and that there be way in which employer may account for that and remain compliant with the legislation . they may , for example , use annualise hour contract , which offer variable number of hour at work at different time of the year . additionally , the Bill already allow guarantee hour offer to take the form of limited - term contract where reasonable — for example , a fruit - picker could be engage on a contract tie to the end of the picking season . in such case , after the initial reference period , the employer would be require to guarantee hour only for the duration of that limit - term contract rather than on a permanent basis . the Bill also already provide power to address seasonal work through regulation , ensure flexibility as workforce need evolve . consultation with employer , trade union and stakeholder will take place before such regulation be make . we therefore do not support the amendment . let I turn to unfair dismissal . lord amendment 23 and 106 to 120 propose retain a qualifying period of six month for unfair dismissal . these amendment have return to this House as the Lords have insist on they . we remain committed to deliver unfair dismissal protection from day one — not two year , not six month , but day one . that be a clear pledge in our manifesto and it will ensure that about 9 million employee who have work for their employer for less than two year be protect from be arbitrarily fire . crucially , day one protection from unfair dismissal will not remove the right of business to dismiss people who can not do their job or do not pass probation , but it will tackle case of unfair dismissal in which hard - work employee be sack without good reason . a six - month qualifying threshold still leave employee expose to dismissal without good reason in the early month of a new job , which be why the Government can not accept the Lords amendment on maintain a qualifying period . do the Minister not listen to the voice of business and business organisation ? they say that what the Government propose will make young people — whom it be risky to take on — less likely to get job in the first place . why do she think she know well than employer and the people who create job in this country ? yesterday , I be with the Hospitality Sector Council . I hear about all the brilliant work it do to provide employment opportunity for young people across the country . indeed , my first job be in a caf é . such opportunity to get on the employment ladder be significant for young people . that be why the Bill will work in alignment with all the other crucial work that the Government be do through the youth guarantee . as I have outline on unfair dismissal , it simply be not fair that hard - work employee who have work somewhere for 18 month can be unfairly dismiss and have no stability and predictability in their job . protection through day one right give financial security to people who do not have it . we be strike a balanced approach by introduce a statutory probation period . as we have mention , the Government ' s preference be for that to be a period of nine month , but we be engage in consultation on the next step for those light - touch standard . the probation period will ensure that in the early month of employment , employer can dismiss employee who might not be perform or might not be suitable . the measure will tackle the cause of unfair dismissal . some 73 % of employer support give employee protection from unfair dismissal — the day one right — accord to the Institute for Public Policy Research and TUC research , and 83 % of manager agree that improved worker ’ right can and do positively impact on workplace productivity . do my hon . friend agree that we should listen to that extremely important research ? my hon . friend raise an excellent point about research . provide employee with security at work result in a happy workforce , which increase productivity and help business across the country , as well as our economy . the Bill will provide flexibility and security for people in workplace across the country , which be vital for our productivity . that be our vision for our country and economy . the Minister refer to a nine - month probationary period as oppose to the six - month unfair dismissal period . a report from the Resolution Foundation — which be usually hold in high regard on the Treasury Bench — say that this be a " messy compromise " that risk confuse employer and prevent they from take people on . that be the point that I be make . some 20 % of job in my constituency be in the hospitality sector . the sector be not take people on because of the job tax , and it will take on even few people because of these increase cost . do she not realise the confusion that will come from this messy probation period , which be not on the face of the Bill ? as we have say from the start , the implementation of day one unfair dismissal right will be do with a light touch . I be keen to work with employer across the country , include in the hospitality sector , which play a key role in employ and provide opportunity for young people . I will work with all stakeholder on the next step and implementation . as the hon . Gentleman know , and as be the case for lot of employment right legislation , we be set the foundation here in this crucial Bill , but there be lot of detail to work through in consultation , which I be absolutely committed to do . the framework will be found on the principle of social partnership : consent and consensus must replace dispute and conflict in modern employment relation . that will ensure maximum flexibility , so that the new framework work effectively for employer and employee in each sector of the economy . we will minimise the cost of its implementation and operation . the Government be commit to ensure that employer can hire with confidence . as I have say , introduce the statutory probation period enable employer to fairly assess new hire ' performance and suitability for the role that they have be hire for . Most employer already use contractual probation period of six month or less . the Government have be clear that our preference be for the probationary period to be nine month long . that would allow for a standard six - month term , with the option to extend support employee development without compromise operational need . we have hear the call to ensure that the framework reflect real - world reality , and we have table an amendment in lieu to address that . our amendment place a statutory duty on the Government to consult on key aspect of the framework . that would guarantee meaningful input from employer and employee , give business a direct role in shape the legislation to ensure a practical and fair approach . additionally , we be table a further amendment in lieu , make technical change to the word restore to the Bill by our rejection of the Lords amendment . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill not only provide vital protection to the workforce , but give business the certainty they need to grow our economy ? I completely agree . we be create security for people across the country . crucially , we be ensure that employer do the right thing for their employee and go above and beyond the proposal in the Bill . that ensure a level playing field , which be good for our economy and for business that might otherwise be undercut by other that do not play by the rule . we have also hear concern about the pressure on the employment tribunal system . we will set up a taskforce to support we in fix the employment dispute system , so that it work well for worker and business . the taskforce will have balance representation from union , business and other expert , include community organisation . I turn now to the Lords amendment on heritage rail . the Government agree with the principle of the amendment and have table an amendment in lieu that capture the intent , while refine the drafting to provide more clarity and ensure that the legislation work as intend . the Government ' s amendment , which have be table with the support of sponsor peer Lord Parkinson and Lord Faulkner , place a statutory duty on the Office of Rail and Road and the Health and Safety Executive to produce guidance support 14 to 16 - year - old who volunteer on heritage railway . I rise as co - chair , alongside Lord Faulkner , of the all - party parliamentary group on heritage rail . I express my thank to the Government for bring forward the amendment and recognise that volunteer with heritage railway be an immensely useful experience for young people age 14 to 16 . I be glad that we be now undertake a 12 - month assessment for guidance . I thank the right hon . member for work with we and for her support throughout the passage of the Bill . I understand her passion and work in this area . as she say , the guidance will offer a clear benchmark for reasonable activity and assist inspector in important decision . the Government be commit to the work , as she will know , with publication target by 31 March 2026 . we believe that this collaborative effort will provide practical guidance that empower child to engage safely and meaningfully in heritage railway volunteering . turn to the issue of political fund , Lords amendment 61 and 72 would remove clause 59 from the Bill . that clause reverse measure in the Trade Union Act 2016 , which we have commit to repeal , that require member to opt in to political fund . this therefore reinstate longstanding arrangement where member be automatically include unless they choose to opt out . remove clause 59 would break that commitment to restore balance and fairness in union operation . the opt - in system , introduce in 2016 , add bureaucracy without improve transparency or strengthen member ' choice . to be clear , we be not remove that choice . at the point of join , every new member will be clearly inform on the application form that they have the right to opt out of contribute to a political fund . the same form will make it plain that opt - out have no negative bearing whatsoever on any other aspect of union membership . that be why the Government can not support Lords amendment 61 and 72 . we have hear reflection around how opt - out notice would take effect and have table an amendment in lieu to refine that process . under the pre - 2016 legislation , an opt - out notice be effective on 1 January follow the year in which it be give . under the Government ' s amendment , opt - out notice will now have effect from either 1 January or the follow year after it have be provide , or on a date specify or determine in the rule of the union , whichever of those date come first . this provide union with flexibility in the legislation to act more quickly and process the member ' s request to opt out , without have to wait until the subsequent 1 January to do so . in practice , union already do this . we will also commit today to engage with union directly , to continue to make clear our expectation that opt - out notice can be honour as swiftly and practically as possible . our amendment be simply about ensure that legislation match what have be the establish practice . I hope that the Minister have not refer to this already , but small business in my constituency that do not have human resource department tell I that they will find it hard to navigate these legislative water . although we need strong employment right and I support the Bill ' s objective , we need to ensure that there be support for employer , so that they know how to implement the measure and how to defend themselves , which they will sometimes need to do , without pay costly solicitor ’ bill that be detrimental to their business . will the Minister reassure I on that matter ? I come from a family that have a business in the hospitality sector , which be close to my heart . in the first eight week that I have be in this role , I have have the pleasure to meet small and large business , and I have make clear our determination to work closely with they on the implementation of this legislation and to ensure that they be prepare for the change when they come . we publish our road map early this year and have commit to stick to that , which have be welcome by business small and large . finally , turn to the issue of industrial action ballot threshold , Lords Amendment 62 would remove clause 65 ( 2 ) from the Bill , which would retain the exist 50 % turnout threshold for industrial action ballot . the Government do not support this amendment . clause 65 remove an unnecessary bureaucratic hurdle and align union democracy with other democratic process , such as parliamentary vote and local election , which do not typically require turnout threshold but be still accept as legitimate . as the period of disruption under the Conservatives ' watch between 2022 and 2024 have show , bureaucratic hurdle only make it hard for union to engage in the bargaining and negotiation that settle dispute . this Government ' s approach will foster a new partnership of co - operation between trade union and employer . if this provision be introduce , do the Minister think that there will be more or few strike ? strike be a failure of the Tory Government who have stop listen and , to be frank , have stop work , so I will not be take any further intervention from the hon . Gentleman . we want to create a modern and positive framework for trade union legislation that deliver productive and constructive engagement , respect the democratic mandate of union and work to reset our industrial relation . nonetheless , we recognise that this issue have generate debate , which be why the Government have table an amendment in lieu that will require the Secretary of State to have regard to any effect of the introduction of electronic balloting on the proportion of those entitle to vote in industrial action ballot who actually do so . we have previously commit to align the removal of the threshold with the establishment of e - balloting as an option for trade union . this amendment give statutory effect to that commitment and make it explicit in the underlying legislation . in have regard to the effect of e - balloting , the Government will monitor and assess the practical impact of e - balloting on participant rate and the 50 % threshold . to conclude , I urge hon . member to support the Government ' s motion before the House today , include our amendment in lieu , which be part of a package that strengthen right and reflect the value we place on fair work . we have listen throughout the Bill ' s passage and make meaningful change where need , and we will continue to listen to all relevant stakeholder as we move into implementation we be committed to full and comprehensive consultation with employer , worker , trade union and civil society . as set out in our " implement the Employment Rights Bill " road map , we be take a phased approach to engagement and consultation on these reform . this will ensure that stakeholder have the time and space to work through the detail of each measure , and will help we to implement each in the interest of all . this be a win - win for employer , employee and a more competitive british economy . act in haste , repent at leisure : never have that be wise advice than in respect of this Bill . it be a rushed bill that be half - baked when it be introduce , and have get bad since . it have fail every test of scrutiny , from the Lords Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee to the Constitution Committee , to its low - ball impact assessment . on the day that the Mayfield report outline the scale of the challenge that we face on worklessness , it will create generation jobless . every family in the country will know a son , daughter , niece or nephew who can not get work as a result . as my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) remind we , every Labour Government leave unemployment higher than when they start , but only this Government have actually legislate for that . the Minister ask we to disagree with all the main compromise amendment from the other place . if she wish to listen to stakeholder , now would be a fantastic moment to start . her motion to disagree reject sensible compromise on qualifying period , seasonal working , guarantee hour , strike threshold and opt in to political fund . who will be the victim if the motion be carry today ? young people , the neurodiverse , those with a disability , female returner to work , the over 50 and former prisoner — some of the most vulnerable group in society who deserve their chance in life , their shot at employment and a job . yesterday , the hon . Gentleman say the Conservatives " will repeal those most damaging element of the Employment Rights Bill " . — [ Official Report , 4 November 2025 ; Vol . 774 , c . 776 . ] could he inform we which element of the Bill they will retain ? we will have our work cut out , with its 330 page and 122 , 000 word — [ interruption . ] labour member seek to hide behind measure that we support , such as enhance maternity right . but will the hon . Member tell I how many time the word " maternity " appear in the Bill , and how many time the word " union " — his paymaster — appear in it ? I do not realise that be a genuine offer . I do not have the ctrl + F function in front of I to do a word count , but , again , I would be interested in hear an answer to the question I pose to the hon . Gentleman . all I will say be that , as his colleague the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) say in Committee , trade union - associate mp have be assiduous at declare donation . I think only one member on the conservative side have declare an interest throughout all these proceeding ; I find that utterly incredible . I trust that you will want all member this afternoon to declare any relevant interest , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I have none . to answer the question that the hon . Gentleman do not manage to answer , the word " maternity " appear in this Bill three time ; the word " union " appear in this Bill 478 time . follow the money , Madam Deputy Speaker . with unemployment higher every month — [ interruption . ] listen and learn . this will be labour ' s legacy : with unemployment higher every month of this Government , it be a bleak time for those try to find work . the independent Office for National Statistics estimate that vacancy be down by 115 , 000 since this government come into office . some 41 % of those graduate in 2023 be not in full - time work 15 month later , and it be estimate that almost half the top 100 UK employer have reduce their graduate intake . in fact , graduate be compete for so few job that get a job be as improbable as spot a Labour Member who have not receive a union donation . but it be not just graduate : for many , seasonal work be the first opportunity to get a foot on the career ladder yet this Bill in its current form force hospitality business or anyone who rely on seasonal worker into an impossible position . that be why we be supportive of the Lords ' compromise amendment that would allow employer who need flexibility across the calendar year to continue to have it ; what could be so objectionable about that ? I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the hon . Gentleman be talk about seasonal work but have he think about the impact on young people of so - call zero - hour contract and the pressure that put on their be able to live a decent life and plan for the future ? I be at a conference last week about mental health in the workplace , which Opposition member be concerned about . zero - hour contract and flexible working be really difficult for young people , and we must address their concern as well . mental health be a huge issue ; across the House we would agree on that and the Mayfield report this morning be just one of many contribution to the debate . but for so many — this go to reform of our welfare system as well — the right answer will be to be in employment , and the Mayfield report talk about create barrier to employer give young people a chance . there will of course be some challenge with any form of contract employment , include zero - hour , which many find a very flexible way of combine work with study and parental or other responsibility . the way to try to solve that challenge across this House be not the clunk fist of regulation dictate and provide perverse incentive and maybe unintended consequence , which mean that employer do not take a chance at all on young people and they do not get that first step on the employment ladder . I understand that the hon . Lady ' s concern and contribution be well mean , but that be why it would be so much well if we approach the Bill collectively , after so many hour of debate in Committee in this place and in the other place , and if the Government show compromise to help mitigate — not shelve the Bill , as I might prefer — some of the bad damage that will manifest itself in few job , few opportunity and some of the most vulnerable finding it very hard to get into work . employer face the prospect of a hire go wrong when they take a chance or a risk , and of an employee be able to turn up in the morning on day one and before lunch file a claim with the employment tribunal that put their business at the back of a two - year long queue behind 491 , 000 open claim . it be staggering that we have be talk about this Bill when the queue for the tribunal in many part of the country stretch out for two year . that be incredibly expensive , and justice defer be justice for nobody . why not focus much more of our endeavour on try to fix that issue ? I would be very happy to be intervene on if there be any real business group — not the Institute for Public Policy Research or the TUC , but real business group — that the Minister or anyone else would like to cite in defence of this Bill and that support it in its current form . I be all ear , because that be not true of the Federation of Small Businesses , the British Chambers of Commerce , the Confederation of British Industry , make UK , the Institute of Directors , ukhospitality , the British Retail Consortium and so many more . the answer to that question be the Chartered Management Institute . well , I be glad we have find one ; I have not have any representation from it . the shadow Secretary of State be show how much he despise the trade union movement and ordinary work people — [ interruption . ] order . I must declare a financial interest with regard to my connection with the trade union movement : I be a very proud member of a trade union . in response to what the shadow Secretary of State say about support for the Employment Rights Bill , it be a manifesto pledge and the british public vote in their million to support the Labour party to put this manifesto pledge through in its entirety . and guess what ? that be what we be do . I ask the Member strongly to withdraw that : I do not despise trade union ; not a single word I have ever say at the Dispatch Box indicate anything of the sort , and I would ask you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to get the Member to withdraw that comment as it be not worthy of he . I would have hope for well form in the conduct of this debate . I support people ' s right to trade union — well - regulate trade union . for 30 year , the Labour party accept a broad consensus on the balance between the right of worker and the right of employer . Tony Blair never seek at any point to reopen the consensus on that balance that have serve this country well , and it do no one a service to render people unemployed . rise — I should give way to the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , who do so much service on this Bill . I be grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for give way . I be pleased that he have learn to count now ; he must have improve his skill since his time under Liz Truss in the Treasury . he talk about the consensus over 30 year , but be it not his Government who introduce the Trade Union Act 2016 , which do so much to damage trade union relation ? I be try to be generous to the hon . member , as this Bill be part of his legacy before he be so rudely fire by a bad boss without any notice . it be not unreasonable to say that a strike must be support by a mere quarter of worker in order to be valid . I do not think the Labour party would claim the mandate that the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) be talk about on the vote of merely a quarter . the hon . member be not be very clear . do he like the pre - 2016 trade union regime , which be the one this Bill take we back to , or do he like the post - 2016 trade union regime , which be the one he seem to be advocate except when he talk about the 30 year of settle consensus ? which be it , because it can not be both ? we on the conservative Benches seek to respect the role of trade union , but in a flexible workplace where we see growth in the economy and — unlike what we see today — more people in job , rather than few people in job . that do not help anybody at all , least of all a Government who claim that their no . 1 obsession be growth . that be not an unreasonable position . not for the first time , I think minister have get themselves in a bind . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade be go around tell business group that he be listen , but every one of they be against this Bill . from what the Health Secretary have be say privately , it be clear that he be no fan of give more power to militant union to call low turnout strike . the welfare Secretary have commission report on get people from welfare into work , and those report talk about not disincentivise employer from hire . be Treasury Ministers really look forward to the Office for Budget Responsibility next week score the impact of this Bill , give the independent estimate that it could shave up to 2 . 8 % off gdp ? the Chancellor like to blame everyone from the dinosaur onwards for her failure , but this one will definitely be on she . the loom disaster of this Bill be the truth that dare not speak its name . it may be a triumph for the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , but it be a disaster for Britain . it be bad for business , bad for growth , and bad for job . far from further worker ’ right , it punish those who want a job . we do not protect worker by bankrupt their employer . even the Government ' s ally be warn they against this Bill . Government Members have a choice . they can stand by and watch as their Government bring into law decade - worth of economic stagnation , or they can be on the side of the young , the vulnerable and the enterprising . history will remember this moment , because when unemployment skyrocket , business shut their door , and young people stop believe and stop hope , no one on the Government Benches will be able to say that they be not warn . I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be proud to declare an interest as a lifelong trade unionist in the labour movement , which have help I to get where I be today . let I start by place on record my thank to my right hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) and all those colleague in the other place who spend so many late night work on this Bill . I welcome my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) to the Front Bench . she be among the many trade union leader who help to develop this Bill before it come to this place . the shadow Secretary of State think that the Bill be cook up on the back of a fag packet , but it take year and million of union member and ordinary people in this country , who have face decimation since the Conservatives ' Bill in 2016 . I offer my support to my hon . friend the Member for Halifax in finish her job , because the House will know that this Bill be unfinished business . I start my work life as a carer on casual term , not know if there be go to be a pay cheque from month to month . it be because of a good , unionised job with decent condition that my life and the life of the worker I represent change . as I tour the country in the election campaign , in every community I hear from so many who be in the same position — they want change , they want fairness and they want respect at work . that be why when we promise to deliver the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation , we mean it . it be very clear from the shadow Secretary of State ' s opening remark , and from what he say as the Bill pass through the House , that the Conservatives do not want to improve work people ' s life . in fact , it be very clear from his submission today — let we face it — that he want to water the Bill down . when he mention the state of tribunal , I nearly fall off my chair . I can not believe he can say that with a straight face , after the state in which the Conservatives leave our justice system . I win ' t even talk about the economic mess they leave we in . despite the fierce criticism from Opposition party and the relentless lobbying from vested interest , I be proud to speak in this debate as we deliver nothing less than a new deal for work people . every time we have make progress on employment right over the last 45 year , it have be resist . it be always easy to do nothing — to take the path of least resistance — but in each generation , it have be the Labour party that have have the courage and conviction to change life . maternity allowance ; equal pay for woman ; health and safety right ; the minimum wage — Labour change life , and this generation be no different . this Bill show that Labour be on the side of work people . they will know that ordinary people be well off , and it will have an effect on their family — their child , their brother and their sister . they will have basic right from day one , such as protection from unfair dismissal . I can not believe the conservative party think that in this day and age we should dismiss people unfairly . I do not understand it . we be go to strengthen sick pay , family right , bereavement leave and protection from sexual harassment at work . we will have a ban on zero - hour contract , a historic fair pay agreement in social care , an end to fire and rehire , a genuine living wage and the single big boost to right at work in a generation , create an economy that work for work people . that be the promise we make to the british public , and I urge the Secretary of State to fight every step of the way to deliver it in full . the public have no patience for the Tory and Lib Dem lord who , cheer on by Reform , be stand in the way of well right for worker and frustrating what be a clear manifesto promise . tonight , this House will once again send the message that we will not back down . I will not go through every Lords amendment , but I will pick out a couple of the most damaging . first , Lords amendment 23 and Lords amendment 106 to 120 would break the pledge that we make to the british people to give they day one right . the last Conservative Government shamefully double the qualification period against unfair dismissal to two year and strip worker of protection at the stroke of a pen , and now they be at it again . Government member believe that worker deserve fairness , dignity and respect at work , and they deserve it from day one on the job . opposition member say that these right against unfair dismissal will slow down hire , so let I be clear that employer can absolutely still have probation period for their new staff ; they just will not be able to fire they unfairly at will , for no good reason . secondly , Lords amendment 1b would tear up protection for worker on zero - hour contract . this Government make a commitment to provide worker with an offer of guarantee hour , and the Lords amendment would water down that right . we promise to ban zero - hour contract — no ifs , no but — and that be exactly what we should do . this Bill be a promise we make to the british public . it be our duty to deliver it , and I say to my Front - Bench colleague that I will be with they every step of the way as we do just that . make no mistake : the Bill be good for worker , and good for business . it be not just the right thing to do ; it be the foundation for the high - growth , high - skill economy that the UK need . its key measure be back by many of Britain ' s good business , include the Co - op , Centrica and Richer Sounds . those business prove that if you treat people well , you get the good out of they . they know that be pro - worker be not a barrier to success , but a launchpad to it . that be why the Bill take the very good standard from the very good business and extend they to million of worker . it be also why we say proudly that this be a pro - business and pro - worker Bill . respected business voice , such as the Chartered Management Institute , have indicate their support for the key measure in the Bill . we will continue to consult business and hear their voice , to make sure that we get the detail right . we talk a lot about growth in this place , but as the result from New York overnight show , growth mean nothing if ordinary people can not see it , and if community have nothing to show for it . the reform we be make today will give people security and dignity that they can feel . they will mean something to the thousand of pregnant woman and mother who will benefit from new maternity protection ; the ten of thousand of father and partner who will be bring into the scope of paternity leave ; the 1 . 7 million who will benefit from new policy on flexible working ; the 2 million who will receive a right to bereavement leave ; the up to 9 million employee who will benefit from protection from unfair dismissal from day one ; and the 15 million people in every corner of this country who will benefit from Labour ' s plan . across this country , people will benefit from secure work and a decent wage that they can raise a family on . this Bill be a once - in - a - generation chance to reshape the world of work — to drive a race to the top on standard , achieve real growth , and build an economy that work for everyone . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a real pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) and hear her passionate advocacy for this Bill . the Liberal Democrats support many of the principle of this Bill . we have long advocate for strengthen employment right in several way , include by increase support for carer , boost statutory sick pay , and give people on zero - hour contract more certainty about their work pattern . there be a lot in the Bill that we support in principle and that move we in the right direction , but we remain concerned about the specific way in which the Government plan to implement many of its measure . so much of the detail that should have be in the Bill have be leave to secondary legislation or future consultation , make it impossible for business to plan ahead with certainty . for that reason , we support amendment that provide clarity for business , for example by set the qualifying period for unfair dismissal claim at six month . training , hire and retain a skilled workforce be issue that affect business across the country , and we must ensure that this legislation strike the right balance for both employee and business . do the hon . member believe that , in the first six month of employment , it be appropriate for people to be dismiss for unfair reason and without a fair process ? the point have be make on a number of occasion that it be always possible for employer to make mistake in their hiring — for people to not be the right fit for the job . there should be a straightforward way for those employer to dismiss those people without be challenge on the basis that the dismissal be unfair . the key point be not that employer should be allow to make unfair dismissal , but if a dismissal have be fair , they should not have to defend it . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson have just say that it be not right that employer should pay for a mistake they make in hire someone . why should the employee pay for that mistake , if it be not theirs ? there be a balance between the employer and the employee . if the fit be not right , it be well for both side that the employment be bring to an end , and that the employee be free to seek more appropriate employment . there be very significant concern . the lack of clarity about probation period , which the Minister mention , and exactly what they mean , risk pile undue worry on to business manager who be struggle to find the right skill . we can compare that with the provision in the amendment table on unfair dismissal . my liberal Democrat colleague and I , both here and in the other place , have be clear in our support for an amendment that would change the obligation to offer guarantee hour to a right to request guarantee hour . amendment 1B would allow an employee to notify their employer if they no long wish to receive guarantee hour offer , but they would be able to opt back into receive guarantee hour offer at any time . that reasonable and balanced approach would relieve employer from have to issue guarantee hour offer each reference period to worker who may simply not be interested in they , while ensure that those who wish to receive such offer could continue to do so . the Liberal Democrats strongly believe in give zero - hour worker security about their working pattern , and we be deeply concerned that too many worker be struggle with unstable income , job insecurity and difficulty in planning for the future . however , we also recognise that many people value the flexibility that such arrangement provide . adaptability in shift pattern be often hugely valuable for those balance care responsibility or their study alongside work . it be therefore important to strike a balance that ensure that worker can have both security and flexibility . specifically , small and medium - sized business have highlight that have to offer employee fix - hour contract on a rolling basis could impose significant cost and administrative burden on their limited resource , compound other challenge , such as the recent increase in employer national insurance contribution and the fallout from the previous Government ' s damage Brexit deal . the Liberal Democrat amendment that be debate in the Lords be in line with our long - stand policy that zero - hour and agency worker should have the right to request fix - hour contract — a request that employer could not unreasonably refuse . we believe that measure would maintain valuable flexibility and benefit both party when the obligation to keep offer guarantee hour , even to worker who clearly be not interested in they , impose a significant burden that do not benefit either side . as with all workplace right , employee should be support to exercise a right to request guarantee hour without fear of any negative consequence in their workplace . the unified fair work agency be set up by the Government , which we welcome , could help ensure that employee receive that protection and support . this approach would still give worker the vital security that they deserve , while avoid unnecessary burden for employer . last time the Bill be debate in the Commons , I speak in favour of measure that would improve the clarity of the legislation on seasonal work , so I will once again speak in favour of Lords amendment 48b . the sustainability of so many company , such as farming business , depend on get the right people into the right place at the right time . any obstacle to action that can have a huge impact on company operation , potentially throw the entire business into jeopardy . hospitality firm such as pub , caf é s and restaurant also rely on seasonal worker and be particularly vulnerable . can the hon . Lady define what right somebody work behind a desk in this place should have under amendment 48b that somebody work behind a bar in this place should not ? they be different kind of work with different work pattern , require different skill and experience . I be not entirely certain what point the hon . Member want I to respond to . if a different regulatory framework be to apply to seasonal work , a clear definition of seasonal work must be create to prevent employer from avoid their legitimate responsibility by claim employee as seasonal worker in inappropriate circumstance . we continue to call for business that be especially reliant on seasonal worker to be properly consider when secondary legislation be create , so I urge member to support amendment 48b . on trade union , I again speak in favour of Lords amendment 62b to maintain the status quo , in which a 50 % ballot threshold be require for industrial action . the Government ' s proposal to remove the threshold entirely mean that a trade union could take strike action with only a small minority of eligible member take part in the vote . that be bind to raise question among the public about whether the will of worker have be accurately represent , and it risk unnecessarily create tension between worker , employee and the general public . that would not be a good outcome for any of the party involve . we should maintain a robust process for launch industrial action . will the hon . Lady inform the House of the statistic relate to her election at the general election ? she be elect by a minority . if it be good enough for she — she be do a great job , by the way — why be it not good enough for ordinary work people ? the hon . Gentleman will be happy to hear that 53 . 3 % of Richmond Park voter vote for I to be their representative , so I be , in fact , elect by the majority of my constituent . I be delighted to hear that he think I be do a good job for they . I think he be attempt to highlight that many of the people in the Chamber be elect on less than 50 % . the first thing I would say to that be that on most ballot paper , there will have be a choice of more than two candidate . will the hon . Lady give way ? may I finish the point ? if people be choose from a list of five people , it be likely , under the first - past - the - post system , that the win candidate will receive less than 50 % of the vote . in a strike ballot , the choice be between two option . that be why there should be more than 50 % of all member vote for the option to strike . that be the important point here . secondly , the hon . Gentleman have give I an excellent opportunity to point out that the liberal Democrats have long be advocate of voting reform . last December , I introduce a ten - minute rule Bill advocate for proportional representation , which be pass . it remain the will of the House , as express on that occasion , that we should change the way in which we elect hon . member . maintain a robust process for launch industrial action be particularly important when we consider the scale of the disruption that the public face when strike happen . the Liberal Democrats also continue to support measure that would retain the current opt - in system for contribution to trade union political fund . amendment 72B maximise choice and transparency for individual about the political fund to which they be contribute . Most employer be responsible business that want to do the right thing by their staff , many of whom support the Bill ' s aim , but they have significant concern about the extent of the Bill , much of which be still undecided on and risk compound other challenge that they face . change in employer national insurance , slow progress on reform of the apprenticeship levy and the absence of any meaningful action to bring down commercial energy price continue to be extremely damaging to business , and to our economy as a whole . we must find a way to support small and medium - sized business in particular , and to provide clarity , so that they can plan ahead . if the Government be prepared to make meaningful improvement to the Bill that would make thing easy for small business — for example , through the amendment suggest by the Liberal Democrats — they might find it easy to make progress with the legislation . we support many of the aim of the Bill , and the spirit of the measure that strengthen employment right , but I urge member to support our amendment , which will help to ensure that this legislation strike the right balance for both worker and business . rise — I call Justin Madders . after his speech , there will be a five - minute speaking limit for Back Benchers . let I first draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which refer to an election donation from the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers , and to my membership of the Unite and GMB trade union . it be nearly nine month since the Bill complete its Commons stage and over a year since it be first introduce , so it be disappointing to see yet another delay . I know that many of my constituent would want these vital manifesto commitment to be enact as soon as possible , but recent proceeding in the other place have demonstrate the intention of the Opposition party to elongate the process and attempt to water down important protection that the Bill offer to worker . it be as simple as this : Labour Members be elect on a manifesto that commit we to make work pay , and the Employment Rights Bill be central to deliver that . it will be the big upgrade of worker ’ right in a generation . it be long overdue , and we will all be unashamed of our commitment to improve the life of work people . this Bill will have a transformative impact on the world of work , and particularly on people who lack job security and dignity . make no mistake : at every single stage the Conservatives and Reform have vote to water the Bill down or weaken its protection , and now it seem that the liberal Democrats have join in . our constituent will no doubt conclude that those on the Opposition Benches be side with the bad boss , and I urge they to reconsider and choose the side of work people . that be not an exaggeration , because the Lords amendment under consideration will gut the Bill of important protection for the million of people currently in insecure work . we do not have much time , so I will focus on Lords amendment 1b and 62 and Lords reason 120B , which I consider to be the most damaging amendment . lord amendment 1b represent a continued attempt to undermine our commitment to ban exploitative zero - hour contract . the Government , and Labour Members , have always be clear that the only way to tackle the most pernicious element of such contract be to make the right to guarantee hour a right that people can genuinely exercise . worker on zero - hour contract be some of the least empower in our economy , and the least able to actively assert their right . their work hour be inherently precarious and often depend on the vagary of their boss , and they be more likely to be young and work in the lowest - pay sector of the economy . shift this commitment to a " right to request " model , as the Liberal Democrat amendment suggest , would completely fail to recognise the power imbalance in the work relationship , and the real risk that assertion of right would have negative consequence for those who just want some basic security and dignity at work . I be therefore pleased that we be reject those amendment . of course , that be not the only form of insecurity that those on the Opposition Benches want to keep on the table , as they support Lords reason 120B , which seek to allow worker to be unfairly dismiss in the first six month of their employment . maybe those in the other place , who have job for life , do not understand what it feel like to be toss aside without any explanation . maybe they do not appreciate how debilitate it can be for someone to go into work every day with the sword of Damocles hang over their head , know that , if the chop come , there will be absolutely nothing that they can do about it , but those bill will still need pay and their dependant will still depend on they . we need to drive out the insecurity that eat away at so many hard - work people in this country . I do not agree with Opposition Members who protest that our change would , overnight , put a stop to hire . the Government have be clear that employer will be able to pursue a light - touch dismissal process within a probationary period , and have rightly commit to consult closely with employer on the implementation of that . we often hear — we do again today regard employer ' organisation — how it be not right that employer should pay the price for make a mistake when hire someone , but why should the employee ? why should someone who may have give up a perfectly good job to take on another bear all the risk and the consequence if an employer do not get their hiring practice right ? the Liberal Democrats , in their response , talk about this be need to " strike a balance " , but I think the proposal for a statutory probation period actually do strike the right balance and deliver fairness to both the employee and the employer . opposition Members have also gleefully reference a recent report by the Resolution Foundation on this issue . the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , have be generous to I , but I will have to pull he up on something that he say in yesterday ' s Opposition day debate : that the Resolution Foundation actually oppose this Bill . well , I be afraid that show that he simply have not read the report , because it say , in black and white , at the top of the first page : " the Government ' s Employment Rights Bill be important and welcome " . I accept that it then go on to argue against day one right , but the only statistical evidence it put up in respect of that be a chart compare we to other country , and say that we currently have some of the weak protection against dismissal and that this Bill will give we some of the strong . well , that be the actual point of this Bill , and I do not think it be a compelling argument to say that it be something we do not want to see deliver . be it not also the case that , within that graph , a number of the nation that the Resolution Foundation say have weak protection actually have high unemployment rate than our own ? there be clearly not the relationship between the two that some in the opposition have try to suggest . my hon . friend be absolutely right . indeed , that be something that the Resolution Foundation say when give evidence to the Bill Committee . I will quote that directly : " internationally , we can draw scatter plot of the employment level in a country and the extent of employment regulation , and basically those line come out flat . you have some country with very high employment and very high level of regulation , and some country with low employment and high regulation " – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 28 November 2024 ; c . 116 , Q119 . ] so there be no clear relationship with the employment level across country . that be confirm by the OECD , which have do lot of detailed work . that be what the Resolution Foundation say in its evidence to the Bill Committee last year . would the hon . member like to put his money where his mouth be and tell we whether his faith in the Employment Rights Bill be such that he be prepared to make a commitment to his constituent in Ellesmere Port and Bromborough that if , have pass this Bill , unemployment go up , he will resign his seat ? I absolutely can not believe that the Conservative party , which see massive increase in unemployment in my constituency in the 1980 and 1990 when they be in power , have the cheek to start talk about the effect of unemployment on my constituent now . the Resolution Foundation have say some thing in recent week that I do not agree with , but it have say thing in the past that be much more in line with what we believe the international evidence show . so the kind thing I can say about the Resolution Foundation be that I prefer its early work . I turn to Government amendment ( a ) in lieu of Lords amendment 62 , on repeal of the last remnant of the Trade Union Act 2016 and the removal of threshold for industrial action ballot . I have always hold the view that the introduction of e - balloting , if do properly , will lead to much great participation in ballot and render argument about turnout obsolete . the implementation timetable that the Government publish indicate that e - balloting will begin next April . I hope that the Minister , when she respond , can provide some reassurance that that be still on track , and that we can therefore expect the end of threshold to come at the same time , or very shortly thereafter . I would be disappoint if the amendment be an attempt to kick this issue into the long grass . I be not particularly keen on the conditionality in the amendment , which talk about whether to repeal the threshold . there should be no question of " whether " ; it should be about " when " . after all , that be what we promise to do in our manifesto . I urge the Minister to resist any temptation to introduce any conditionality and to deliver the Make work pay agenda in full , as we say we would . I will conclude , because I be conscious that a number of Members wish to speak . I be proud that the Government be continue to commit to implement this Bill in full . the policy in the Bill be overwhelmingly popular with the public . they form a key part of our manifesto and remain central to the Government ' s plan for change . we on the Labour Benches proudly stand against those who seek to water down this Bill and hamper its implementation . we be proud to back worker and to deliver meaningful change in their work life . we stand against maintain the status quo of low pay , low security and little dignity at work , and we stand for job security and for deliver on our promise . I wish to draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , my proud 23 year in Unite , and the generous support from the million of ordinary member of the GMB and ASLEF in pay into their political fund to put representative of the work class here in Parliament . I be here to deliver a simple but firm message : there will be no concession on this Bill — not one . opposition party in the House of Lords be try to water down the right that work people vote for , but we will stand firm . the new deal for work people be a labour manifesto commitment , and it will be deliver in full . I want to talk about two set of amendment , start with Lords amendment 61 and 72 , on political fund . the Lords want to keep the opt - in system , but it be abundantly clear that this be a deliberate attack on the political voice of work people . all this Bill do be restore the long - stand opt - out system that have last since 1946 . union member will still have robust right , and they can opt out easily . union be tightly regulate — no other membership organisation have face these rule . union ' political spending be transparent and accountable , with annual return to the certification officer and the Electoral Commission regulating donation and campaigning . of course , these political fund support wide campaigning , not just party donation , although I be proud to say that they support party donation too . I also oppose Lords amendment 62 , on keep the unnecessary and unneeded ballot threshold , which be design to stop worker have a voice . the Tory and Lib Dem Lords want to reinstate the 50 % turnout threshold that be introduce by the draconian Trade Union Act 2016 . I remind member from the Liberal Democrat party that they oppose that Act in 2016 , include the ballot threshold , and I wonder why they have now reverse their position . ballot threshold weaken union and stall negotiation . before 2016 , ballot trigger talk and resolve dispute early . now the threshold delay dialogue and make resolution hard . no other organisation face turnout threshold ; this just single out union . of course , anyone who be familiar with how the trade union movement work know that no union would call member out on strike if they be not up for it . with all due thank and respect to the other place , we will still repeal the Trade Union Act 2016 in full , with no concession . this Bill be the first step in deliver the new deal for work people — our promise to the work people of this country . this be the change that work people vote for . the Government will not give in to unelected Tory and Lib Dem Lords side with bad boss to weaken worker ’ right — not now , not today , not ever . I draw hon . member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in relation to support from trade union , of which I be most proud . the past four decade of structural decline in the share of the national income go to employee , decade mark by the erosion of trade union right , have be exacerbate by 14 year of the Conservative Government force down real wage across the United Kingdom , leave work family still struggle to recover . against that backdrop , the most urgent task of this Labour Government be to raise living standard . trade union be critical to that mission and the Employment Rights Bill will help to deliver that . the Bill represent a cornerstone of the Government ' s new deal for work people , a vote - win manifesto pledge . I very much welcome evidence of the popularity of these policy in the platform of Zohran Mamdani , New York ' s newly elect Democrat mayor . among other thing , he pledge protection for delivery worker , include guarantee hour . yet the amendment to this Bill make in the other place would water down that commitment and deny work people the right they be promise . I therefore must speak in strong opposition to the Lords amendment , which , take together , would weaken the protection that this House have commit to deliver for work people across the United Kingdom . lord amendment 23 and Lords amendment 106 to 120 , which concern day one right , would remove the right not to be unfairly dismiss from the very start of employment . instead , they would impose a six - month qualifying period and empower minister to introduce a further initial period in which only limited protection apply . that be contrary to both the letter and the spirit of the Government ' s manifesto . it would leave new employee vulnerable to arbitrary dismissal and recreate the very insecurity that the Bill be design to end . when the hon . Gentleman have speak to employer in his constituency about this specific provision — I be sure that he have — what have they say ? the concept be pretty simple . conservative Members be conflate different issue around unfair dismissal and probationary contract . they be scaremongere . there be nothing in the Bill that prevent the continuation of probation period . the only thing we be say be that it would be unfair to dismiss somebody for an unlawful reason . I really wonder why it be so difficult to grasp that concept . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , because I be conscious of time . there be no impact on retain probationary period — they remain intact . have day one right against unfair dismissal do not prevent an employer vet and do recruitment properly , and use probationary period legitimately . turn to Lords amendment 1b , the so - call guarantee hour opt - out , this provision transform a clear right into a conditional option . instead of guarantee a contract that reflect the hour a person actually work , it allow employer to invite worker to opt out of that right altogether . experience with the work time opt - out show exactly where this lead : it become a standard clause , routinely sign away . that be not the end of exploitative zero - hour contract ; it be their re - badging . finally , Lords amendment 62 , which reintroduce ballot threshold for industrial action , seek to restore one of the most restrictive element of the Trade Union Act 2016 . this House have already agree that those provision be excessive and undemocratic . no other organisation be bind by such turnout requirement before it may act . reinstate they would frustrate meaningful negotiation and delay the resolution of dispute , not promote it . let we drop the threshold and quickly move to e - balloting , as we promise . for those reason , I urge hon . member to resist the Lords amendment and to insist on the Bill as originally pass by this House . it must be deliver in full , for it represent the baseline of a fair work settlement . however , while defend the Bill , we must also recognise that it be only a starting point . the consultation now under way must ensure that secondary legislation go far and fulfil the Government ' s wide promise to make work pay . I hope we see a robust and enforceable right of access for trade union to workplace , both physical and digital , so that union can reach and represent worker effectively , with penalty that deter obstruction . I hope we will create a process to expand fair pay agreement beyond adult social care and school , embed sectoral collective bargaining across the economy to raise pay and standard in every workplace . we must also make progress towards a single status of worker . the Employment Rights Bill be a landmark measure , but its promise will be realise only if this House defend it against dilution and strengthen it in implementation . I therefore call on all member to reject the Lords amendment and to stand by our commitment to work people : to deliver the new deal for work people in full and to build from it a fair , more secure world of work . give that time be short , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will endeavour to keep my remark brief . I intend to speak to specific amendment today , but I feel compel to start with a general comment in respect of financial interest . throughout the stage of the Bill , and again today , it have be suggest by the Opposition that a number of Government Members speak not from genuine and sincere belief , but because of arrangement involve donation to their constituency labour party . I say to those on the Opposition Benches that that argument and line of thought betray a laziness towards this issue that be reflect in their lack of effective scrutiny of the Bill , with the Opposition resort instead to hackneyed and ancestral stereotype and lazy assumption that reflect nothing about the world of union and the world of work . member of the public who be watch this debate will not necessarily have ready access to the record of the thousand of pound that have be take by each Member refer simply to their financial interest . in the interest of transparency , will the hon . Gentleman therefore say how many thousand of pound he take from trade union , if any , to support this Bill ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for prove my point exactly . I will happily tell he that since become a Member of this House , I have not receive a penny in political donation from trade union . my constituency Labour party receive a donation before the election , but that be an entirely different matter . I have only one matter to draw attention to in my entry on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which be my chairship of the GMB parliamentary group , which be an unpaid role . we be ask today to consider a number of amendment that directly contradict our manifesto commitment . lord amendment 61 and 72 on political fund be a case in point . in the other place , the noble Lord Burns gently question whether this be a manifesto issue , but the Make work pay document , which our manifesto say would be implement in full , clearly say that the Trade Union Act 2016 would be repeal . that must include this provision . the amendment before we seek to preserve the punitive restriction that be originally impose as retribution in 1927 and repeal in 1946 , after which we have 70 year during which arrangement work effectively . the actual impact of these amendment , be they pass , would be the same as any arrangement that move from opt - out to opt - in , which be a reduction in the ability of work people to speak with a collective voice . let we not forget that trade union political fund do not exclusively fund donation to party . look at the campaign that have be run and the cross - party support they have win , such as GMB and Unison ' s " protect the Protectors " and GMB ' s campaign on domestic defence manufacturing — two campaign that the Conservatives come to support — as well as USDAW ' s " freedom from Fear " , and the Gangmasters ( Licensing ) Act 2004 , the result of Unite ' s campaign in the aftermath of the Morecambe Bay disaster , in which so many cockle picker tragically and disgracefully lose their life . even today , in this place , trade union funding help to address the abuse that have occur within the confine of the estate , and which there be a risk will continue in the future . trade union be democratic body . any member of a trade union can demand to see the receipt of political expenditure , and decision on party donation be take on a collective basis . when that provision be originally repeal , the Attlee Government ' s Attorney General of the day say — I think this bear repeat today — that the Conservatives rely on the " old delusion that the Labour party be be build upon the hard - earn penny of honest conservative who be too timid to declare their true political colour and be be bully by horrid , nasty trade unionist into support the political fund of a party to which they be so much opposed . " anyone who have work with trade union member will recognise that to be a delusion indeed , and we have hear much of that delusion from the opposition through the passage of the Bill . I be go to make similar comment to those my hon . friend the Member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) — who be both honourable and a friend — make in respect of Lords amendment 62 , but she cover it expertly . I will finish by talk about Lords amendment 121B on the school support staff negotiate body , which have not be discuss so far today . I recognise that this amendment be substantially different from other amendment that have be send to we on this matter , but I still believe that it be unnecessary . first of all , the overwhelming majority of academy employer do subscribe to the National Joint Council term and condition for school support staff — term and condition which , as have be widely recognise for more than 20 year , be out of date in respect of school support staff . the effect of Lords amendment 121B would to be to create a two - tier arrangement between school support staff in local authority maintain school and academy . it state that employer could introduce term and condition . I be concerned about the potential contradiction with the provision in the Education ( Schools ) Act 1992 , which that require such change to be make on a collective and not a unilateral basis . furthermore , it state that term and condition that could be change should be " in aggregate " an improvement . that clearly leave room for employer to introduce a weakening to some area to the detriment of the 1 , 700 school support staff in my constituency . I be proud to have have an association with this Bill , and I look forward to reject those specific amendment tonight . I proudly refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my involvement in the trade union movement throughout my professional career . the Employment Rights Bill be long overdue , and although other continually seek to wreck it with worker - unfriendly amendment , we will not allow it . we on the Government Benches know that this Bill be about economic growth and security for all worker . it be about ban unfair dismissal , strengthen statutory sick pay , outlaw fire and rehire , and gain new maternity and paternity leave right and right to bereavement leave . there be so many fantastic measure in this Bill , and as the Minister note , we be today again present with a number of amendment that we do not support . I want to speak to just one . lord amendment 1b be about the Employment Rights Bill ' s most vital protection — a manifesto commitment on which I proudly stand in my city to deliver : the statutory entitlement to fix hour . this be not an abstract legal reform ; it be a common - sense protection for people who be often invisible in our labour market and for whom insecurity be the norm , not the exception . my hon . friend be make a powerful point . do she agree that exploitative zero - hour contract be a huge problem for worker and that ban they be a big step , so we should oppose any step to try to water down the legislation ? I absolutely agree ; I think the key word there be " exploitative " . People in Portsmouth North and across the country deserve fairness , dignity and the ability to plan their daily life and future . in sector such as retail , hospitality , construction , social care and logistic , many worker be on unpredictable , variable hour , , with shift cancel at short notice or only a minimal work week offer in order for employer to control their labour cost . this make budgeting , second job , childcare , healthcare planning and indeed everything in life almost impossible . let I give the House a local example . one of my constituent , " Sara " , have work in a Portsmouth caf é on a zero - hour contract for four year . she be tell at the beginning of each week what hour she might get . one week she might have 25 hour , and the next week she might get eight — and the next she might get nothing . because she can not predict her hour , she end up in debt , skip medical visit and have to rely on emergency credit to pay her bill . under the Bill ' s intend protection , Sara could request fix hour and have far great stability for herself and her family . my hon . friend be make an incredibly powerful point . do she agree that for Sara and for my constituent who be on short or zero - hour contract , the meat of the amendment , which would introduce the bureaucratic farce of an offering of an offer , instead of a right , would ruin the meaningful change in the Bill and that the introduction of an ability for worker to opt out would open up a loophole with detrimental effect in the real world , where people could be reward with overtime if they agree to opt out ? absolutely . it would leave worker unable to reject overtime , even if they be knackere , have already do 60 or 70 hour that week . that bring I to Dave , a plasterer work on one of my local building site . he be technically self - employ , but in reality he be also on a rolling zero - hour contract . some week he earn enough to keep his mortgage , and some week he earn enough to put aside a little bit of money for Christmas ; other week , he earn nothing at all . he be tell to stand down when winter hit and work slow , with no pay , no notice and no safety net . that insecurity be corrosive and affect not just finance , but family , health and morale on job . let we be clear , the public be firmly with we . accord to the TUC ' s 2025 mega - poll , support for guarantee - hour contract sit at over 70 % across the region and nation of the UK . this be not about denigrate business and business owner — many be fantastic and provide great opportunity — but without the bill , unscrupulous employer will continue to sidestep responsibility and run a race to the bottom . argument be make that these measure would impose burden on business , discourage hiring and risk flooding employment tribunal . those concern should not be a pretext for hollow out protection and should instead ensure that worker know how much they will earn each month so that they can plan and live their life . Sara and Dave , who I refer to early , be just two name ; behind they be thousand of life blight by unfair employment practice . Sara and Dave will not mind I say that they be not young . despite what the opposition want we to believe , zero - hour contract be not just exploitative for the young ; they be exploitative for many other people in our society . People deserve the right to security . I urge colleague to reject these Lords amendment , which would weaken the Bill , because fix - hour entitlement be not a radical idea but a basic standard of decency in the modern world of work . if we really mean it when we say in this House that we respect work people , we must deliver law that protect they . I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a proud , experienced hospitality worker of six year . I have proportionate respect for the work of the other place on the Bill , and be once again bemuse and frustrate on behalf of my constituent that this generational , fundamental and basic common sense bit of legislation be once again before we , along with the hill that many in other place seem to want to make a stand on . it be apparent that after year of stagnate living standard , job no . 1 for the Government be to make work pay again , tip the scale in favour of work people and , especially for the young generation who have be discuss today , recapture a work ethic and value of work that I worry have be lose during the year of Tory Government . why , then , do the other place insist on Lords amendment 23 and 106 to 120 , which would remove the day one right on unfair dismissal ? that be once again tell young , predominantly lower pay and insecure british worker in hospitality , in factory and on work site across our constituency that their continue employment and income be precariously balanced on the benevolence of their employer , not on the value of their labour . that feeling be real every day that this measure be not on the statute book . young man and woman be be bully , prod and push out of their job by the small minority of bad employer that do exist across our constituency . I have have kid in their first job straight out of school , further education or high education — this be their first chance — tell I that they be sack in the week prior to two year of service . look at Lords amendment 106 from my perspective , I see no reason why that same circumstance would not then occur a few week before six month of service . do my hon . friend agree that good employer have nothing to fear from anything in the Bill and that many good employer will embrace these measure , as indeed many do ? when I listen to business in my constituency I find , as I be sure every Member of this House do , that they be worried across the piece for a number of reason and have be for a number of year . yet many good employer do not rank this in their top five concern come forward , and especially not the employer that I work for in the hospitality and retail sector . actually , they see the benefit in keep worker for long and have more security in know who their workforce be . that be a major concern for the hospitality and retail sector that I work in , especially on come out of the pandemic , and not be able to keep staff be also a major cost . on unfair dismissal , if we accept the amendment , we will leave people without a legal right of action when they be unfairly dismiss . we must reject it ; it be an unfair proposal . move on to Lords amendment 1b , why do the opposition insist on that ? it fundamentally mischaracterise the dynamic of the workplace for the majority of those who be on zero hour contract , as I be for six year in the relatively recent past . rather than the employer proactively offer a guarantee hour contract , the amendment would put the obligation on the employee to access and accept . in the lowest - pay and most insecure industry , this would be rife with potential for interference and bad incentive for employee to opt out to convenience the employer . as I have experience in hospitality and retail , in reference to the work time directive , this be rife throughout the sector , especially when someone be finish a shift late on and the employer need somebody in the next day . I can not see a world in which this situation would not be subject to similar interference from the employer ; or bad , with the reference period , the employee will be give few hour , especially if they have pre - emptively insist to their employer that they would access that right . on amendment 48b , I be exasperate , as I have state several time , that with the definition of " seasonal work " as capture include work in the creative industry , retail , hospitality and other sector , there would be an attempt to carve out those sector from other right in the Bill . the Tories , Lib Dems , Reform and anybody else who support the amendment tonight will have to go back and explain to their constituent why they believe that those who serve they behind a bar should access few right than those who work behind a desk . the industry target under the amendment be very specific . I be grateful to the hon . member , who I like very much , for give way on that point . he be clearly a massive fan of the Employment Rights Bill . the people of Falkirk be watch he , so would he like to commit to they that if , have pass the Employment Rights Bill , unemployment go up and therefore we have few worker with few right , he will resign from his seat ? I make the commitment to the people of Falkirk that the quality of their work , especially for young people , will go massively through the roof . young people in my constituency who have be subject to insecure work , low pay and zero hour contract have see the quality of their work diminish , so my guarantee to the people of Falkirk be that the quality of work will go up . I think other member refer to this , but it be a cheek for Tory Members to talk to post - industrial community such as Falkirk , which be savage by the Thatcherite Government . they will get absolutely no credence in my constituency . I say to those on the Opposition Benches that they have time to change their mind . they can back the Government today , get the Bill pass without it be water down and stop the attempt that be perceive , at least in my constituency , as an attempt to betray young british worker who be do the right thing , go out and earn their way . for too long under the Tories , those worker have lose the belief in the quality and opportunity that work provide . they will see massive benefit from the Bill . make work pay and get this do . for the final Back - Bench contribution , I call Anneliese Midgley . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests regard my membership of and financial support from the trade union movement . I stand here as a proud trade unionist , with a couple of decade of work behind I stand up for the work class . I pay the truest of tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) and my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) . my hon . friend be absolutely right about some hon . and right hon . friend and the work that lot of people have do to bring this transformational Bill to the Commons . we also need to mention my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) for his tremendous work at the very beginning of this process . it be transformational and everybody deserve lot of credit . success have many mother . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and I absolutely agree with he about the work that my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East have do on this for over a decade . this Bill bring change that tip the scale in favour of work people and , take together with the rest of the new deal for work people , it amount to the great uplift in worker ’ right in our generation . that be down to the friend that I have just mention here today . it be their legacy and it be one that will change the life of million of working - class people for the well . I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) , will do a great job of complete the process . this be personal for I , because it be my dad ' s secure , well - pay , unionised job on the production line in Ford ' s Halewood plant that give I a well life than my mum and dad have . it lift we out of poverty and provide we with enough money and stability for a decent home , and enough to live a life of dignity on . everyone should have that , and that be why I will fight for work where people can flourish and thrive and for job to take pride in that can provide a good life . no way would I be here in this place , represent the place where I be bear and raise , if it be not for my dad ' s job . the Tories , back by the Lib Dems in the other place , be try to water down the Bill . they be aid and abet by Reform , who be never in this place to debate this and have consistently vote against the Bill . some of the Lords amendment would rip out the heart of the Bill . I be go to speak briefly to amendment 23 and 106 to 120 , which would delay protection from unfair dismissal until a worker have be in their job for six month . this would mean that a worker could be dismiss at whim , for no reason . how be this okay ? how be it defensible ? a day one right not to be unfairly dismiss be good for worker and good for business . my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) speak about the research from the IPPR and the TUC , which find that 73 % of employer support give employee protection from unfair dismissal from day one of employment . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , dismiss the TUC ' s research from the Dispatch Box , but it represent 5 million worker and everyone else at work . be they not stakeholder who should be listen to as well ? we know that good employer up and down the country already live up to the standard that we be set out in this Bill . today , we need to stop these attempt to water down the Employment Rights Bill , deliver the protection from unfair dismissal that our constituent vote for and make sure we deliver the new deal for work people in full . I thank all member for their brilliant contribution today and for their engagement with the Bill throughout the many month we have be debate it . that be incredibly appreciated and value . I start by reiterate a quote from Professor Simon Deakin at the Cambridge University centre for business : " strengthen employment law in this country in the last 50 year have have pro - employment effect . the consensus on the economic impact of labour law be that , far from be harmful to growth , they contribute positively to productivity . " I remind the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , who make a number of contribution , of my opening remark . UK employment law be mostly a product of the 20th century . they have not keep pace with how business employ people or with how people experience their work life today : when , how and where they work . the world of work have fundamentally change in recent year . it be regrettable that the hon . Gentleman ' s party spend 14 year impotently watch the rise of the gig economy and the many change in our employment landscape but now pretend that the status quo still work for everyone . it simply do not . that be why the Bill be so important : it raise those standard and level the play field for business , so that they be not undercut by people who do not play by the rule , which negatively impact their business and productivity . the Bill be important for work people so that they get that security and those right at work , as well as for business , include those good business that already go above and beyond and do brilliant work support our workforce and different economy across the country . the shadow Minister mention seasonal work . the initial reference period will be set out in regulation , as I have already speak to . I reiterate that we believe that 12 week be the right length , balance the need for qualify worker to be offer those guarantee hour reasonably soon after they start a role and the need for a reference period long enough to establish the hour that they regularly work . I be surprised to hear the remark from the shadow Minister on employment tribunal . on their watch , average wait time for an employment claimant increase by 60 % between 2010 and 2022 due to funding cut . the previous Government ' s introduction of fee have a disproportionate impact on woman and the low - pay . yet again , we be fix mess that they leave behind . the taskforce I mention in my introductory speech for how we can fix our employment tribunal system , and our work under the Fair Work Agency , which will be up and run next year , be incredibly important as part of that wide package . it be good to hear about the taskforce . could the Minister give we more information about what other thing it will look at and investigate that will support employee ? the taskforce will bring together different stakeholder so that we can assess the problem within the system and work out the good way to fix they , because at the moment it be not work for employer or worker , who want access to justice and want it quickly . would the Minister agree that the introduction of these right and protection be absolutely critical , but equally important be the ability to enforce those right ? the Fair Work Agency have the potential to bring that to fruition and ensure that when people be in those circumstance and be the beneficiary of an award , they will ultimately receive it , because far too many people take on these case and do not get any redress . we meet Matthew Taylor , the new chair of the Fair Work Agency , this week to discuss the agency ' s progress to ensure that it be up and run at speed . as my hon . friend rightly point out , enforcement be vital , and it be crucial that worker be aware of their right . that be why the agency be so transformational in our approach and important for our wide agenda . to respond to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , I urge she to support the government as we seek to update and upgrade our employment right to be fit for the 21st century . she mention lot around detail . as I mention early , as be standard for lot of employment right legislation , we want to consult extensively with business , union and employer to ensure that we get this right , and I be sure that she agree with that approach . the hon . Member mention turnout threshold . as I have mention , we want to create an industrial relation framework fit for a modern economy and workforce and that work for everybody . we have be clear that we intend to ensure that trade union legislation be proportionate and effective and do not create unnecessary bureaucratic hurdle . we remain committed to remove the 50 % turnout threshold for industrial action ballot through the repeal of the Trade Union Act 2016 . we support a strong mandate for strike action , but a threshold set in legislation be not the good way to achieve that . my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) talk about our proud Labour legacy of the courage and conviction to change life , and she be a powerful and inspiring demonstration and testament to that . that be why this legislation be so important , reshape the world of work and deliver security and dignity that people can feel , as she rightly mention . we can not build a strong economy through employment insecurity . the legal loophole that exist have contribute to the erosion of living standard and allow a race to the bottom . I be always grateful for her support and thank she for her offer of support as we proceed to Royal Assent and the implementation stage to ensure that everybody across the country can benefit , worker and business alike , and that be why the Bill be pro - worker , pro - business and pro - growth . my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) make a powerful speech and respond eloquently to lot of point raise by Opposition Members , and I thank he for that . I reassure he that we remain committed to the repeal of the 50 % turnout threshold , and we have be clear that it be our intention to align the removal of threshold with the establishment of e - balloting as an option for union . the amendment do not change that commitment . we be work at pace to permit electronic balloting by April 2026 . he will be pleased to know that we will shortly launch a consultation on an electronic and workplace ballot code of practice , and I encourage all stakeholder to respond to that consultation . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) for her excellent point on the importance and use of political fund . I reiterate my remark on the 50 % threshold and hope that she be reassure by they . she will have hear the Government ' s commitment to deliver the Bill in full from the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State at Labour conference . I hope to have reiterate that commitment at the Dispatch Box today . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) for all his work on this legislation . it have be a pleasure to work with he over a number of year . he mention fair pay agreement , which we be introduce for social care , as he rightly say . we will learn from that process before consider their introduction in other sector , but I appreciate his passion for this area . I be sure that we will be in touch with he to speak about that progress . on trade union access , my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East may be aware that we launch a consultation last week seek view on a number of change to modernise and hardwire negotiation , engagement and dispute resolution into industrial relation , include the enforcement mechanism for the right of access . I thank he for raise that matter . my hon . friend the Members for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) , for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) , for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) and for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) make brilliant point . I be forever grateful for their support . they be strong advocate for work people across the country . it have be wonderful to work with they over a number of year , and to be in this House today with lot of friend who have contribute to this agenda and this vital work . I hope that we have the chance to celebrate it at some point . may I invite the Minister to respond to two thing ? first , I be ask early how many time the word " maternity " appear in the Bill . the word " pregnancy " appear 16 time , " parental " 27 time , and " bereavement " 34 time , but we can not restrict the debate to individual phrase . secondly , this be not some abacus exercise ; the real impact of the Bill be the change and improvement it will make for million of work family thank to day one right . I thank my hon . friend for that excellent and well - make point . I be glad that he have manage to find the ctrl + F function with such speed . I always rely on he to provide such efficiency and clarity . the Bill will benefit more than 15 million worker . that be an incredibly powerful statistic to give at the Dispatch Box . More than 2 million people on zero - hour contract could benefit , as well as the many worker he mention who will benefit from further protection and right at work . I thank my good and hon . friend for give way . million of worker , include those on zero - hour contract , stand to benefit from the measure in the Bill . do she agree that the amendment table by Liberal Democrat peer on the right to guarantee hour be an unworkable bureaucratic mess that open up scope for abusive practice in the workplace and remove the Bill ' s meaningful protection from far too many worker ? I thank my good and hon . friend for his important contribution . like he , I meet many people in my constituency who do not know day to day whether they will have enough money for food and rent because they do not know how many hour they will work that week . that be why it be so important that we give people basic security by ban exploitative zero - hour contract . we know that people value the flexibility that those contract offer , which be why we be tackle the exploitative one , as he rightly outline . those amendment might look for a different route to tackle exploitative zero - hour contract , but we want to protect work people , because it be so important that they have certainty , week by week , on what they will be pay — that be what they deserve . I thank he for all his work in this area over a number of year . he bring a wealth of experience to this part of the Bill . the Government be clear that we can not build a strong economy while people be in insecure work . employment law have not keep pace with modern work pattern , and that have allow some employer to exploit gap in the law , undercut responsible business and fuel a race to the bottom . back by our new industrial and trade strategy , the Bill will drive productivity , foster innovation and lie the foundation for long - term secure growth . it will level the play field for good employer and put the UK economy in step with competitor in other advanced economy . as we have hear today , I stand on the shoulder and build on the incredible hard work of many right hon . and hon . friend . I pay tribute to they , and put on record my thank and gratitude for all their work in get we to where we be today . I hope that all hon . member support the Government in our determination to get the Bill over the line and update our employment right legislation in this country , for business and for employer , for the future and for growth . I thank hon . member for their contribution . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1b . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Ian Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Mark Ferguson Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Katie Lam Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 310 , Noes 155 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 1b disagree to . More than two hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords message , the proceeding be interrupt ( Order , 15 September ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83 g ) . clause 23 - right not to be unfairly dismiss : removal of qualifying period , etc Motion make , and question put , that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their amendment 23 and amendment 106 to 120 , do not insist on Commons amendment 106A , but propose Government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) in lieu of Lords amendment 23 and Lords amendment 106 to 120 . — ( Kate Dearden . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Si â n Berry Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Ian Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Mark Ferguson Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Katie Lam Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 308 , Noes 153 . question accordingly agree to . after clause 26 - definition of seasonal work Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 48b . — ( Kate Dearden ) . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Si â n Berry Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Ian Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Mark Ferguson Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Katie Lam Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 310 , Noes 150 . question accordingly agree to . after Clause 54 - industrial undertaking resolve , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 60B and 60C but propose Government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . — ( Kate Dearden . ) clause 59 - requirement to contribute to political fund Motion make , and question put , that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their amendment 61 and 72 but propose Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . — ( Kate Dearden . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Ian Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Mark Ferguson Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Katie Lam Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 312 , Noes 151 . question accordingly agree to . clause 156 - order and regulation under Employment Rights Act 1996 : procedure Motion make , and question put , that this House insist on its disagreement with the Lords in their amendment 62 but propose Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . — ( Kate Dearden . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Ian Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Mark Ferguson Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Katie Lam Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 311 , Noes 152 . question accordingly agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 1b and 48b ; that Kate Dearden , Nesil Caliskan , Dr Jeevun Sandher , Laurence Turner , Antonia Bance , Andrew Griffith and Charlotte Cane be member of the Committee ; that Kate Dearden be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee ; that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , at Prime Minister ' s question early today , the Justice Secretary and Deputy Prime Minister be ask by my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) no few than five time whether he be aware of any prisoner be release early , have claim asylum . we now know that he have in his possession at that time a folder contain detail of the accidental release of Brahim Kaddour - Cherif from Wandsworth prison last week — a man previously convict of sex offence and who be , as we speak , at large and pose a risk to the public . it have emerge since then that another man , William Smith , be accidentally release on Monday . the Deputy Prime Minister fail to disclose that relevant information to this House . the House and the public be entitle to be tell about such thing , but the Deputy Prime Minister withhold that information . the police have subsequently confirm that they have no objection to that information be release , contrary to briefing from the Government . will the Justice Secretary come to this House before the close of business and make a statement so that member can question he ? we can not wait until the House return on Tuesday for a proper account . I thank the right hon . member for his point of order . whether the Government choose to make a statement be not a matter for the Chair ; however , the Treasury Bench will have hear the right hon . member ' s concern . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , I understand that the Deputy Prime Minister have make it clear that he be hold back for operational reason by the Metropolitan police from answer that question at Prime Minister ' s question . Mr Swinford of the Times have publish right now that far from that be the case , there be " significant frustration in the Met Police " , as they say that there be clearly " no operational issue " at all with the release of that information . I wonder if you will take that into consideration , Madam Deputy Speaker , because surely this be a process of mislead the House . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . I refer he to my answer to the previous point of order . it be not a point of order and not a matter for the Chair , but it be a matter of debate . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker — can you confirm that it be a point of order ? it be , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will be aware that a Bill be present to Parliament only this week that provide for a duty of candour for public servant . it be not enough simply to tell the truth ; there have to be a duty of candour . can you , Madam Deputy Speaker , share with the House whether the sponsor Minister , the Justice Secretary , have decide to remove himself as the sponsor of that Bill ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order ; it be not a point of order , but a point of argument . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker — I do hope that this be a point of order . it very much be , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have this week have the publication of a very important Bill — so important that the Prime Minister himself come to this House to present it on Second Reading . the sponsor of that Bill be the Justice Secretary . while I have no doubt that the Justice Secretary be be truthful today , there be a question over whether he be be candid , which be a high test . can you advise I on how the Justice Secretary might be request to come to this House to clarify his position ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . however , I repeat that this be not a matter for the Chair . it be not a point of order . Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) that the follow provision shall apply to the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 3 February 2025 ( Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments Proceedings on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : 1 , 75 , 30 and 31 , 43 , 84 , 97 , 2 to 29 , 32 to 42 , 44 to 74 , 76 to 83 , 85 to 96 and 98 to 121 . subsequent stage any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill consideration of Lords amendment I can inform the House that nothing in the Lords amendment engage Commons financial privilege . clause 2 - interaction with other public authority etc I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : Lords amendment 1 , and Government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 75 , and Government amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 30 and 31 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) in lieu . lord amendment 43 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 84 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 97 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( f ) in lieu . lord amendment 2 to 29 , 32 to 42 , 44 to 74 , 76 to 83 , 85 to 96 , and 98 to 121 . the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill deliver on this Government ' s manifesto commitment to safeguard public money and ensure that every single pound be wisely spend . fraud against the public sector be not a victimless crime . it take money away from vital public service , erode trust and harm innocent people . the Bill introduce new power to enable the Public Sector Fraud Authority to investigate and deal with public sector fraud outside of the tax and social security system , use its expertise to act on behalf of other part of Government . the Bill also contain new power for the Department for Work and Pensions to tackle fraud and error within the social security system , provide much - need modernisation for our defence . at the same time , it include significant safeguard , include new independent oversight to ensure the proportionate and effective use of the power . as we now reach the final stage of the Bill , I be sure colleague across the House will agree that it need to receive Royal Assent as quickly as possible , so that we can realise the delivery of the estimate £ 1 . 5 billion of benefit by 2029 - 30 . I thank the Minister for bring the Bill forward and for all the hard work that the Government have do in relation to this . there be one thing that always concern I . in my office , nearly every week I have people come to I who have inadvertently make mistake . they perhaps do not understand how the online system work or how the paperwork have to be fill in , and sometimes they have tick the wrong box and find themselves in a difficult position . this do not take away from those who deliberately defraud and try to get money that they should not be receive . how can we be absolutely sure that those who make inadvertent mistake will not find themselves in a difficult position alongside those who have do wrong ? how can we ensure that they get the sympathy they need ? I know that the Minister will be of the same opinion as I that we must make sure this be do right . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that it be enshrine elsewhere in legislation that claimant error be recoverable as part of universal credit . I can also assure he that , as part of this Bill , the eligibility verification measure will enable we to identify error that be legitimate as well as illegitimate — deliberate , shall we say — in order to minimise the level of debt for individual who have , I accept , do this accidentally and ensure that they be catch early . any overpayment will be small as a direct consequence . one advantage of the Bill be that it can minimise suffer for people who have inadvertently make a mistake . before I turn to the Lords amendment , I thank my noble Friends Baroness Anderson and Baroness Sherlock who expertly guide the Bill through the other place . I share their appreciation for all the peer who contribute to its detailed scrutiny and their invaluable insight that have help the Government to strengthen the Bill . the Government make important change to the Bill in the other place , and I now ask this House to endorse those Government amendment . they be make to ensure that the Bill deliver its aim and to clarify the operation of the power , as well as to ensure that the safeguard this Government have introduce be strong and effective . more procedural yet still important amendment have be make to part 2 to reflect the Scottish Government ' s position on how the power should be apply to devolve benefit . across the Bill , we have make amendment that be more technical in nature , include to reflect the recent datum ( Use and Access ) Act 2025 and to ensure flexibility in the commencement of certain provision of the Bill across the different nation of the United Kingdom . in the interest of time , I will focus my update to the House on the most substantial and pertinent area , on which there have be extensive engagement with external stakeholder and point have be make by peer in the other place . first , the Government table a group of amendment to part 1 to enable the Public Sector Fraud Authority to be merge with another statutory body , rather than necessarily be set up as a stand - alone statutory body , although the power to do so remain . that build flexibility into the legislation , enable the psfa to achieve the aim of separation between investigator and Ministers in future , while avoid the need to set up an entirely new statutory body if it be not consider proportionate to do so . link to that , I would like to speak to a minor and technical amendment that I propose to make to Lords amendment 75 to schedule 2 . amendment ( a ) simply ensure that authorise investigator be capture within the regulation - make power set out in schedule 2 if or when the power confer under part 1 of the Bill be transfer to another public authority , or if the psfa be set up as its own statutory body . it do not change the use of any power lay out in the Bill . the Government also amend part 1 and 2 to ensure that the Government must disclose relevant information to the PSFA independent reviewer and the eligibility verification notice independent reviewer . effective oversight be a critical aspect of this Government ' s approach . these amendment do not represent a change in that approach ; indeed , they far strengthen the commitment this Government have make to support open and transparent use of the power . I will return to the point about oversight later in relation to Lords amendment 43 . the Government make several amendment to the debt provision across part 1 and 2 . those be a consequence of the extensive engagement by the psfa and the Department for Work and Pensions with the financial sector , and they clarify important aspect of the operation of the power , include in situation where a liable person might have a legal deputy manage their affair . they also strengthen the right of debtor by ensure that a deduction order can not be in suspension indefinitely , and that after a two - year period in suspension , it will not be resurrect . the Government have also respond to the continue confusion that seem to have arise on the DWP debt recovery provision in part 2 and who those power apply to . the Government have make amendment explicitly state that a direct deduction order , as outline in schedule 5 , and a disqualification from drive order , as outline in schedule 6 , can not be make where the person be entitle to and in receipt of a benefit from the DWP . that clarify the exist intent that these power be only for use with those who be not on benefit where the money can not be recover from a payslip and where the person can afford to pay and be refuse to do so . I remind the House that this power address an important point of fairness . it can not be right that those who can pay money back can avoid do so , and the amendment underline that point . the Government also act to strengthen the legislative safeguard around the use of the eligibility verification measure . I remind the House that that measure simply enable the DWP to ask financial institution for limited datum that will help the Department to identify incorrect payment and verify eligibility for specific benefit . the amendment make by the Government in the other place will introduce an explicit , necessary and proportionate test before an eligibility notice can be issue , and clarify the purpose for which an eligibility notice can be issue to only assist in identify incorrect payment . that put the exist policy intent in the Bill . again , I will return to the eligibility verification measure when I address Lords amendment 84 . I turn to the other amendment make in the other place . we welcome the challenge and scrutiny provide by peer ' contribution , but we can not accept change that risk undermine the power . the Government ' s position will continue to reflect that , include in our amendment in lieu . first , Lords amendment 1 would give the Minister for the Cabinet Office the power to initiate an investigation when they consider it necessary in the public interest . [ interruption . ] just so that he be sure of that power , the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) , have join I on the Front Bench . we be propose technical change to Lords amendment 1 through amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . those change will give the Minister for the Cabinet Office the power to initiate an investigation when they consider it necessary in the public interest . the other place ask we to go far than the original drafting of the Bill allow , and our amendment show that we have listen . the Government believe that it will almost never be necessary for the Minister to exercise that new power because of the collaborative approach in the normal working of government , but it will be available if there be a genuine need . our amendment in lieu also make consequential change to clause 2 to preserve the intention that the psfa should not take on matter assign to the Secretary of State with responsibility for social security or his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . the reason for that be that the DWP and HMRC already have well - establish function and framework to tackle social security and tax fraud . of course , it go without say that both Departments may still collaborate with the psfa if a fraud cross many departmental boundary . I turn now to Lords amendment 30 and 31 . the Government wholeheartedly agree that the measure in part 1 of the Bill be powerful and must be use with care . we agree that staff must be appropriately train before they be able to use these power , and that robust oversight — both internal and external — be essential . our amendment ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) in lieu mandate statutory guidance and a new reporting requirement , and set internal record requirement . the amendment in lieu ensure strong ministerial and parliamentary oversight of the power , as be call for by the other House , without involve Ministers unnecessarily in operational decision . the statutory guidance will detail how the Minister will exercise the function of investigate suspect fraud against public authority . it will outline structure of internal oversight , the delegation of power , standard for the training and appointment of all authorise officer and investigator , and the psfa ' s collaboration with an independent reviewer . new report will be prepare follow the end of each financial year and lay in Parliament by the Minister , state how many time the investigation and enforcement power in part 1 have be use . there be now a requirement in the Bill for the psfa to keep internal record of the use of those power , available for scrutiny by an independent reviewer . together , those measure ensure that minister be accountable for the use of the power , and show how they be delegate . in place , they build on process that would already have be in place , but we have put they in the Bill . let I move on to part 2 of the Bill , focus first on Lords amendment 84 on the treatment of information obtain under an eligibility verification notice . although I understand the intent of the other place , I can not accept the amendment as draft , and I urge member instead to back Government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu . lord amendment 84 risk compromise the weight that the DWP may be able to attribute to information obtain through an eligibility verification notice . the Government have be clear that EVM information on its own have no tag of suspicion attach , and that the DWP must look within its own system first and check for any inconsistency before take further action . however , depend on the information hold , EVM information may form an important part of any further action . we must not compromise that . the amendment also risk legislate for a person ' s state of mind — in this case , that of a DWP - authorise officer . that be something that we should avoid where we can . it be far well to focus legislation on the action that must or must not take place follow receipt of EVM information . the second part of the amendment , relate to the seniority of staff who must review EVM information , risk undermine the exist public law principle that staff at DWP take decision on the Secretary of State ' s behalf . there be also uncertainty about what would constitute a suitably senior person . in any case , the Secretary of State must be satisfied that official be suitably train and experience to take decision on their behalf . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu of Lords amendment 84 seek to address those risk and build on the amendment that the Government table on Report in the Lords . they more accurately reflect the policy intent and focus on the action that DWP staff must take follow receipt of EVM information . the amendment in lieu clarify that where the DWP have receive EVM information , it must also have regard to all other relevant information that it hold before take further action . first , the amendment in lieu require an authorised officer to consider all information hold that be relevant to the question of whether to issue an information notice , as well as the relevant evm information , before issue the notice under the Department ' s investigatory power . secondly , they require a DWP agent to consider all information hold that be relevant to the question of whether to suspend a payment , as well as the relevant evm information , before suspend that payment . finally , they require a DWP agent to consider all information hold that be relevant to the question of whether to change an early benefit decision , as well as the relevant evm information , before make that change . I believe that our amendment succeed in offer the necessary reassurance about the way individual within the DWP will take decision once EVM information be receive by the DWP — namely that no decision will be make use EVM information in isolation — and I therefore urge hon . member to back they . I be still not exactly clear why the Minister disagree with Lords amendment 84 . I understand that he be say that DWP agent will look at EVM information and everything else , but what happen in circumstance when they have only EVM and not much else by way of information ? be he unable to agree with Lords amendment 84 because if the DWP have only EVM information , he want decision to be take base only on that and not on anything else ? there be a couple of issue with Lords amendment 84 as draft . it could minimise clear evidence from an EVN that have be return . the point about what information DWP agent would have to consider be pertinent , because it may answer a question about why , for example , someone have more than £ 100 , 000 in a bank account . it be about consider all information , not about have no further information on which to act . I be probably not explain that tremendously well , but I be effectively say that an EVN could provide information that be sufficient for we to launch a fraud investigation , but we would want to consider all relevant information , include that EVN , to see whether that information be valid or should be discount for any reason of which we be aware . I can not accept Lords amendment 43 , which would add three additional requirement to the role that the EVN independent reviewer would be require to undertake . on propose new paragraph ( d ) in Lords amendment 43 , regard cost incur by business , the Government be commit to keep cost associate with the measure proportionate and to a minimum . official have discuss this part of the amendment with the finance industry , which acknowledge that it may place a significant burden on financial institution if they be ask to report on cost every year . that be something we clearly would want to avoid . as for propose new paragraph ( e ) of the amendment , let I be clear that there be no reason for individual to lose access to banking service solely because of information share under the eligibility verification measure . we have be clear that this information do not imply any wrongdoing , and the measure simply provide a source of datum , which feed into long - stand process in DWP , and the Department already have layer of support and specialist staff to support those who be vulnerable or have complex need . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu of Lords amendment 84 , which I have speak to , reaffirm this . furthermore , the measure will help our customer ; it will help we spot error in claim soon and take step to correct they , and help prevent large overpayment and debt from build up , as I say in response to the intervention from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . as for propose new paragraph ( f ) in Lords amendment 43 , I have already outline that the Government amendment make in the other place require the Secretary of State to provide the independent evm reviewer with all reasonably require material , so there be no need for the reviewer to write a statement to that effect in every report ; but if they feel the need to , there be nothing to stop they do so . finally , Lords amendment 97 concern the DWP ' s authorise investigator ' use of reasonable force . I begin by remind the House that the power of search and seizure be intend to be use by expert DWP staff , train to industry standard , to tackle only serious and organised crime against the DWP . while I understand the intent of the other place , I again can not accept the amendment . the use of reasonable force be set out in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 . that govern all body exercise that power , to ensure a single , consistent framework . it do not distinguish between use of force against item , and use of force against person . we can not break down section 117 of PACE , and there be no precedent in PACE for specify where , or on what , reasonable force may be apply . however , I have be clear from the outset that the DWP ' s policy position be never that a DWP authorised investigator should be able to use reasonable force against a person . instead , the aim be to allow they to gain access to property , such as locked filing cabinet or cupboard , when on premise to search for and seize critical evidence . where force against a person might be need , the intention have always be to rely on the like of the police . I stand by the position that the good way to provide for the DWP to have power of reasonable force be to remain within the umbrella of PACE , to safeguard consistency . there be clear precedent for that ; other Government Departments draw on the same power of reasonable force . however , I have hear the concern raise about this measure in the other place , so I be introduce Government amendment ( a ) to ( f ) in lieu of Lords amendment 97 to clause 76 and schedule 4 , to draw a distinction between the power of reasonable force exercisable by DWP authorise investigator , and that exercisable by police officer . these amendment remove the power of reasonable force derive from section 117 of PACE , and instead create a stand - alone provision on reasonable force in this Bill . they restrict DWP authorise investigator ' access to reasonable force , so that it be force against property only , while retain the police ' s power to use reasonable force where necessary against people and property . this deliver the policy intent , but bring the DWP ' s power of reasonable force outside of PACE . to ensure the stand - alone power of reasonable force benefit from the safeguard provide by alignment with PACE , DWP authorise investigator will still operate in compliance with PACE code b in their exercise of search and seizure power . my Department be work closely with the Home Office on this . official in the Home Office have confirm that secondary legislation will be lay before Parliament to insert the relevant clause of this Bill on reasonable force into PACE code b when parliamentary time allow . I have repeatedly assure the House that the DWP policy position be that DWP authorise investigator will not use reasonable force against people , and I believe that the amendment put that beyond doubt . the Government be grateful for the scrutiny of this Bill ; improvement have be make as a result . however , we can not accept amendment that undermine how the power will operate , so I urge the House to support the Government ' s alternative proposal . I call the shadow Minister . I begin by echo the thank express to member in all part of the House and in the other place who have contribute to the Bill . in particular , I pay tribute to the excellent work of Baroness Finn , Viscount Younger and Lord Vaux , whose detailed and constructive engagement make the Bill strong , more balanced and more effective . this Bill be about protect taxpayer ' money , ensure fairness for those who play by the rule , and give our public body the power that they need to tackle fraud and error wherever they occur . every pound lose to fraud be a pound take from taxpayer , public service and the people who rely on they . tackle fraud and error and send a clear message to fraudster that they will not succeed be vital , and this Bill take an important step towards do that , but there be more to be do , and our colleague in the other place have do a brilliant job of scrutinise the legislation . I acknowledge that the Government have be incredibly constructive in their approach . thank to the determination of Conservative and Cross - Bench peer , a number of important concession have be make , improve the Bill . I will touch on several of the Lords amendment . lord amendment 1 concern the power of the Public Sector Fraud Authority to conduct proactive investigation . when the Bill be introduce , the psfa could act only when invite in by another authority . that risk prevent it from act , even when there be credible intelligence that fraud be take place . our conservative colleague in the Lords rightly identify that gap , and bring forward an amendment that would empower the psfa to act proactively where there be reasonable ground to suspect fraud , without wait for a formal request . that ability to act swiftly and decisively be essential if we be to stop fraud before more money be lose . the Government ' s amendment in lieu reflect the principle in Lords amendment 1 , ensure that the psfa ' s new power operate in a clear and accountable framework . this be an important issue , so we welcome that concession , which strengthen the psfa ' s ability to intervene early and protect taxpayer ' money . lord amendment 30 and 31 relate to oversight and accountability , and would ensure that with new power come clear line of ministerial responsibility . conservative peer raise legitimate question about how serious investigative power in the Bill would be authorise , particularly those base on the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 . the principle be simple : when Government official be to exercise significant power , Ministers must remain accountable to Parliament for how those power be use . follow discussion , the Government have table amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 30 and 31 , which we have accept as a compromise , on the basis that the initial guidance be subject to a " take note " debate in Grand Committee . that would allow Parliament to consider and scrutinise the guidance in full . I would be grateful if the Minister could , in his closing remark , confirm that this remain the Government ' s position . I apologise if he say so already and I do not quite catch it . let I turn to Lords amendment 84 . modern fraud prevention increasingly rely on technology , include artificial intelligence and data - drive eligibility check . use well , those tool can help to identify pattern and protect public fund , but they must be use responsibly and transparently . Lord Vaux , Viscount Younger and Baroness Finn raise fair concern ; they say that the use of AI or automated eligibility indicator should never amount to reasonable ground for suspicion on their own . technology might inform decision , but it must not replace human judgment , so it be welcome that the Government have listen . their amendment in lieu make it explicit that before any intrusive action be take , such as amend a benefit or launch an investigation , the information must be review by a suitably qualified human officer . we believe that ensure that we get the good of both world ; we harness innovation to protect the taxpayer , while retain human judgment to safeguard individual . lord amendment 43 concern the eligibility verification mechanism and its impact on vulnerable people and financial institution . the amendment would task the independent reviewer of the mechanism with assess how the system take into account the additional need of vulnerable people , whether it risk benefit claimant be prematurely de - banked , and the cost to bank and financial institution of comply . throughout the passage of this Bill , member — include Conservative Members — have emphasise the need to protect those who may be more vulnerable , include people face financial hardship and those with disability . we be disappointed that the Government be not back Lords amendment 43 , but it be reassure that they have commit to ensure that all the point make in both Houses be feed directly into the work of the independent reviewer . we understand that a meeting will be set up between member and the independent reviewer after Royal Assent so that these issue can be explore in detail . we will continue to push to ensure that Ministers deliver on those promise , but we hope that this engagement will ensure that the review proceed with a full understanding of Parliament ' s concern about proportionality , cost and fairness . as the Minister rightly say , Government amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 75 be essentially a technical correction . we have no issue with it , because it tidy up the text but do not alter the substance of the Bill . finally , I turn to Lords amendment 97 , which concern the issue of reasonable force by Department for Work and Pensions investigator . we do not believe that it be the Government ' s intention that DWP investigator should use force against individual — that power rightly rest with the police , who be train in its use and accountable for it . however , that be not clear in the legislation as originally draft . the explanatory note state that " this power will be limit to use reasonable force against thing not people " , but that be not specify in the Bill . after we raise this issue in Committee in the Commons , Lords amendment 97 seek to clarify that DWP officer may use reasonable force only against property , not against people . the Government ' s amendment in lieu be a compromise , but the Bill do now distinguish between the use of force against people , and the use of force against property for investigator who be not constable , which be the clarification we be look for . in summary , thank to the thorough work of colleague in both Houses , the Bill today be well than when it be first introduce . it give the Public Sector Fraud Authority the power to act proactively , embed ministerial accountability , ensure the responsible use of technology , protect vulnerable people , and provide clarity on how enforcement power may be use . there remain area in which we think the Bill could be far strengthen — there be still nothing in it to tackle sickfluencer , nor be amendment require the Government to review the whistleblowing procedure in the civil service accept . it be regrettable that the Minister miss those opportunity , but it be welcome that the Government be at least willing to listen in other area , and we have some very good debate on the bit that the Government have not accept . although we will not oppose the amendment that the Government have table in response to the Lords ' amendment , this Bill must not be the limit of their ambition . it be the late step in crack down on fraud and error , but we need to see continued effort , action and enforcement from this Government , because the message must be clear that fraudster must not , and will not , succeed . every pound steal through fraud be a pound lose to the taxpayer , our public service and those who do the right thing . that be why we will keep press for vigilance , transparency and fairness as this Bill become law . the Minister may remember that on Report , I table a number of amendment in the hope of safeguard the public from see their bank become an arm of the state . today , I will speak about Lords amendment 43 , which deal with the scope of the eligibility verification measure . the EVM would give the DWP power to give certain financial organisation an eligibility verification notice . that notice would require the receiver to identify relevant account that specify benefit be pay into , assess those account against eligibility indicator and , where there be indication that incorrect payment have be or may be make , share specify detail of those account with the Department . the Bill include provision for an independent reviewer to conduct an annual review of the Secretary of State ' s power under the evm . lord amendment 43 seek to expand the scope of that review to ensure that the cost to bank be proportionate , and that any unintended adverse consequence to benefit recipient be identify . at the moment , the independent review of the EVM need only consider the extent to which the Secretary of State and the financial institution in receipt of a notice have comply with the requirement when exercise the measure , and whether the EVM have be effective in assist in identify incorrect benefit payment . it do not require the independent reviewer to also consider whether the evm be be use proportionately , which be the key to Lords amendment 43 . it be essential that any consideration of the proportionality of the EVM take into account the potential harm to individual . in Committee , several witness warn that the EVM could result in serious harm to benefit recipient . for example , there be the possibility of an algorithmic error when automated system be use on a population - wide scale . if the algorithm be scan the bank account of 10 million people , an error rate of just 1 % will result in 100 , 000 case where innocent people be wrongly investigate . as I mention on Report , I be concerned about what this Bill say about our welfare state . it be in danger of create a second - class citizenship , where welfare recipient have few civil liberty than the rest of we . it turn bank into an arm of the state , empower to trawl through personal datum , even when there be no suspicion of wrongdoing . it strip away a fundamental principle of british justice : the presumption of innocence . that be why we need to ensure that in the annual review of the power , the independent reviewer consider the harm to individual , so that we can understand whether the power be exercise be proportionate . I therefore urge the Minister to address these concern while there be still time and accept Lords amendment 43 as a basic safeguard to ensure that those who be most likely to be impact by these power be take into account when we scrutinise how they have be exercise . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Government for the step take to improve the Bill since it be debate in Committee . we as Liberal Democrats still have grave concern about element of the Bill , but it be in a much well place , and I thank all colleague for work together collaboratively to drive for improvement . clearly , fraud be wrong . some people believe that fraud against large organisation such as supermarket and the Government be a victimless crime , but if we do not have that money , because it have be fraudulently claim , we have to apply large taxis or choose not to spend money on thing such as tackle climate change . it be therefore important that it be tackle , but we need to ensure that we have two word guide we : proportionality and fairness . we as Liberal Democrats still have grave concern that element of the Bill be not as proportionate as one would wish . I will focus my remark on Lords amendment 43 . we Liberal Democrats feel that more responsibility should be give to the independent reviewer in relation to proportionality and fairness . we still have concern about the blanket approach , where mass fishing will effectively occur with the proposal before we . one do not have to look that far back in recent IT history to see where thing have go wrong . I believe it be only last week that child benefit be freeze for 23 , 500 household across the United Kingdom , because those family leave the country and be not account for when they return . that error be make on a computer system , and that affect just a small proportion of those to whom this Bill be set to be apply . the reasonableness of Ministers be debate repeatedly in Committee . I be not question the reasonableness of the current Minister , or multiple Ministers who precede he , but I question what we be see on the other side of the Atlantic and the person who have the lever of power in the Oval Office . what may be see as " reasonable " in politic in the United Kingdom be sadly a distant memory in the United States of America . we must ensure that we guard against that future in the legislation we be put forward now . on the use of force , the liberal Democrats be pleased that the Government have take a step in the right direction in their amendment , although we feel that it could be strong . we would encourage colleague to vote against the Government ' s proposal , because we strongly support Lords amendment 43 . I must say that I do get a bit edgy when Front bencher agree so much . in respect of Lords amendment 84 , I want to be absolutely clear about what the Minister have say . as far as I be aware , it will now be a human being make the decision : an authorise officer . the authorise officer will be able to draw upon all other information — that be what the Minister say — but it be still not clear to I whether a decision can be make simply on the basis of the EVM information . it would therefore be useful if the Government ' s intention be read into the record more clearly . as for Lords amendment 43 , I want to follow up on what be say by my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) . we have receive representation with regard to , in particular , people suffer from mental health issue , some of whom would be lead chaotic life . the Minister be right to say that it be not for minister to engage in the process of make individual decision because that be for the authorise officer to do , but the one occasion on which the Minister can be hold to account be when the annual independent review take place . accord to my understanding , the Minister say that the reviewer would not be prevent from explore the issue of the exercise of power and the impact on vulnerable people . may I suggest that that could be strengthen ? perhaps he will tell we when he respond to the debate . it be not just about prevention ; it be appropriate for the independent review to consider that issue , largely because of the representation that we have receive consistently throughout our debate on the Bill , and from a wide range of organisation that represent people with disability and , in particular , mental health challenge . a statement to that effect would be more reassuring than the word that we have hear so far . I do not really understand why the Government would resist this , because it be just a basic element of accountability in an area that , as my hon . friend the Member for Poole have say , could affect so many people and could have such a significant adverse effect . I do not want to exaggerate , but I be in the House throughout our discussion of the introduction of the work capability assessment , and , although the last Government refuse to accept it , we now know that it result in a large number of suicide . in this instance , I would not want we to enter into a reform of the process specify in the Bill without a regular review of the harm that could be cause , which would enable we subsequently to adjust the legislation if necessary . I would welcome a clarification from the Minister , or perhaps a strengthening of the word that he have use so far . everyone accept that we need to keep a handle on fraud , but the power be take in the Bill , include DWP access to people ' s private bank account , go much far than anything we have see in the past . can we trust the DWP to exercise these sweeping new power in a fair and responsible way ? unfortunately , past DWP error have have the most tragic consequence . Philippa Day be 27 year old when she die . she be find unconscious next to a letter from the DWP refuse her request for an at - home assessment . Philippa have agoraphobia and anxiety , make it impossible for she to attend a personal independence payment assessment in person . those at the DWP know that — they be tell by her sister , and they would have be tell by her mental health team if they have bother to speak to they , but they do not . the letter by her side be the last of a long back - and - forth exchange with the DWP . during their final conversation about the DWP , Philippa say to her sister , " I ' m do try to fight they . " but why be she have to fight they in the first place ? surely this be a system that be design to help . the coroner ' s report identify 28 separate failing by the DWP and its private assessor , Capita . error be make from the very outset : her PIP claim form be lose , her mental health need be not log , and no attempt be make to communicate with her mental health team or her gp to ensure that the very system design to help she would do just that . it be easy to see , with a system riddle with error and seemingly devoid of compassion , how someone could be drive to just give up the fight . Philippa write : " I ' m not die because I ' m suicidal . . . I ' ve be so trap for so long , and then come along the government people , who I have assume be there to help . since January the 11th 2019 my benefit have be severely cut " . I also want to share with the House what happen to Kristie Hunt . Kristie be train to become a nurse . she be 31 . she have be on PIP and employment and support allowance until she rejoin the workforce after 13 year — admirable , consider her struggle with mental health . she , like Philippa , be basically a strong person . Kristie inform the DWP about her return to employment , but staff forget to log her call , so Kristie be hound by call and letter from the counter - fraud team . the DWP even send incorrect information to her local council , result in further letter and threat of lose her home . for month , Kristie be subject to erroneous accusation of fraud and threat of lose her flat and the life she have fight so hard to build back . on her final call with the DWP , she be note as be confused and tearful , yet no one even ask whether she be okay . no one flag concern for her welfare . all they want be the money . Kristie be an example of a person use the system that be design to support she back into work , but be instead the victim of mistake after mistake . there be many other I could describe : Karen McBride , Stephen Carr é , David Holmes , David Clapson , Errol Graham , Kevin Gale , Jodey Whiting , Roy Curtis and James Oliver . all of they be wrongly hound by the DWP , which at least contribute to their death . it do not reassure I that part of the name of this Bill start with " Fraud " , when the big cause of overpayment be departmental error . the DWP have a long track record of badly handle mistake . that be a cultural failing , and it be wildly optimistic to assume that everything be suddenly go to be fine go forward . do the Government really believe that this Bill have enough check and balance to protect vulnerable claimant ? one thing be for sure : there will be more DWP mistake . go forward , I would ask that the Government commit to make coroner ' report automatically available to the public in every case where there be a link to the DWP ' s action . it be not easy to follow that excellent speech . I really appreciate the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) read out the name of people who have be fail by the system that be mean to support they — and we should remember that the system be what fail they . as he say , in a number of case they be incredibly strong people who have fight through adversity but be then fail by the system . a significant number of disabled people have have to fight for so much of what they have . they have have to fight every day just to manage to get to work or get to the shop . they have have to fight for so much , and the system that be mean to support they should not then be another battleground . I want to talk about a number of different thing in the Bill , but I will start with the fact that this be not a happy Bill and the SNP do not support it . we be unhappy with a significant proportion of the Bill ' s direction of travel , such as on the eligibility verification , not least because of the potential future risk . I say to the Conservatives when they be in government , and I will say again now that the Labour party be in government , that you will not be in government for ever . at some point , somebody else will be in government , and if it be somebody who share the authoritarian idea of some potential future leader , I be not sure that I want they to have access to everybody ' s bank account . we need to look at the proportionality of access universal credit claimant ' bank account to see if they be commit fraud . I wonder what proportion of universal credit claimant defraud the system , compare with the proportion of billionaire who defraud his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and do not pay the level of tax that they should be pay . I do not think it be proportionate for we to say that universal credit claimant need to have their bank account look at because they be likely to commit fraud , whereas people who earn million and million of pound and store it in offshore trust do not have exactly the same constraint put on all the many bank account that they may have . it be disproportionate for we to assume that social security claimant be more likely to defraud the system than anyone else , especially give that we have significant level of proof that other people do defraud the system and that a significant number of the error make — through overpayment , for example — be make by DWP itself , rather than by the claimant . the hon . member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) talk about element of Lords amendment 43 and vulnerable individual who may be disadvantage . if we could trust that DWP never or very rarely make mistake , I could understand the Government put forward this Bill . from the write - down fact in coroner ' s report , and from all our constituency casework , we know that DWP make mistake . I be not blame individual at DWP for make those mistake ; there be sometimes systemic failure and sometimes individual failure . mistake be make at DWP , and add both another layer of place where it can make mistake and a further ability to sanction people — for example , by take their car away or look at their bank account — will not be proportionate until DWP be much less likely to make mistake and to greatly overpay carer , for example , and then attempt to claw back the money . the Government need to get the Department in order before take action against individual . I understand that there be people who defraud the system — I be not doubt for a second that that be the case — but , as the hon . member for Horsham say , put the word " error " first might have be helpful , give that a significant proportion of the money that be overpay be due to error . I turn to the cost and saving mention in Lords amendment 43 , on how much it cost to recoup money and to undertake an investigation in order to see whether somebody be defraud the system . we know that a school meal debt system be set up , and we have have bailiff at people ' s door look for under £ 10 of school meal debt . send a bailiff to somebody ' s door for under £ 10 involve a disproportionate cost , and I hope that everybody in this room think that we should not be spend so much money , and upset somebody ' s life that much , for the sake of £ 10 . if a person can not afford to pay £ 10 of school meal debt , they have pretty significant problem , and send a bailiff to their door be not go to help . we only know about some of these bailiff situation because they have be bring to mps , or because they have be report by various organisation . Aberlour Children ' s Charity have do a huge amount of amazing work on public sector debt and some of the method that be use to recoup that money . the Government should have to report whether it cost a disproportionate amount for we to ensure that we be not pay out a very small amount . I think it be completely reasonable for that question to be ask . I think it be completely reasonable as well — the hon . member for Poole talk about this — to think about vulnerable group and whether they be overly disadvantaged by the system be put in place . will people with learn difficulty , specific mental condition and physical disability , and those from certain minority community that be already marginalise , for example Gypsy Travellers , be specifically disadvantage by the change ? all Lords amendment 43 ask be for report to ensure that those vulnerability , if there be an entrenchment of inequality and an increase in the disadvantage face by people , be report on , so we aware of it and there be transparency , and so we can see that it be create a significant additional disadvantage on an already vulnerable and marginalised community . I would therefore really appreciate it if the Government agree , rather than disagree , with Lords amendment 43 . finally on Lords amendment 43 , the amount of money propose to be save by the Bill in its entirety — the total amount of saving — be , I understand , £ 1 . 5 billion . government of all colour be monumentally bad at report back on how much saving have be achieve by any of the measure they put in place on just about anything . unless a tax be hypothecate , for example , we do not see exactly how much money be save or exactly how much money be spend , and whether it deliver what be promise by the Government . again , it be government of all colour who do not do post - implementation review in the right amount of time , and when there be a change of Government they sometimes just forget that post - implementation review exist . we will not know with any level of accuracy , unless we get proper report on cost and saving , exactly how much money be save and whether the Government have meet their target or expect amount of £ 1 . 5 billion , so I have significant concern . I appreciate the Minister ' s answer to I on Lords amendment 84 . I have not understand what he have say originally on his position on Lords amendment 84 and the answer he give I in response do clarify his position . I do not agree with his position , but I now understand why the Government hold that position . I still think it would be important to ensure there be thing in place other than the evm . I understand the Government want a little bit more flexibility and that they be say they have to look at all the other information they hold . it be possible that the DWP may not hold any more information or may hold very little more information . therefore , the decision to initiate a fraud investigation could be take almost entirely , if not completely entirely , on the evm . that be why I still disagree with the Minister ' s position . I would like a requirement for the DWP to have more than just that one piece of information . my understanding be that that be what Lords amendment 84 intend to do in the first place , but I appreciate that other amendment in lieu have be table by the Government to provide a little more clarity on what be expect . I would expect they to look at all the information provide , as the Minister say . I be just concerned that they may not hold lot of information , and a requirement to look at all the information they hold when they only hold one piece of information get we back to the situation we be in at the beginning , where it could hinge on one thing rather than look at a wide suite of thing . generally speak , Madam Deputy Speaker — I will sit down in just a moment — the SNP be not in favour of the Bill . we have significant concern . if the Minister , when he respond , confirm that the Government will do as much as they can on transparency , and that they will report back on the level of cost and saving that be create by the Bill , that would give I a measure of comfort . I still will not support the Bill , and I might still vote against some of the amendment table today , but I think it would make member from across the House a bit more comfortable to have a well understanding of what be happen and whether the Bill be work as the Government intend . with the leave of the House , I call the Minister . I begin by thank the member who have contribute for what be thoughtful contribution , even where we fundamentally disagree on aspect of the Bill . I have already outline the benefit of the Government ' s propose approach , but I will respond briefly to some of the specific point make in the debate . first , I thank the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , for the constructive way that she and colleague in both Houses have engage on the Bill . she be correct that we have end up in a well place , and I thank she and all member who feed into that process — that be the point of it . I be pleased with where we have end up . the hon . Lady ask two specific question . I can confirm that there will be a take - note debate at Grand Committee , as she reference , at the point when statutory guidance be lay before Parliament . I can also confirm that member will be able to meet with the PSFA independent reviewer . I will briefly touch on some of the point surround Lords amendment 43 , which have take up the majority of the debate . I be grateful for the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , as well as the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) and for Horsham ( John Milne ) and the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) . first , I think we need to be clear about where we have already act in other part of the Bill or in amendment that have come forward today . on the question of cost , for instance , the independent reviewer already have to look at effectiveness and have already commit to update the impact assessment within 12 month of the power come into force . I will turn to the question of vulnerable people , which the hon . member for Horsham in particular illustrate very eloquently indeed , with move example . I want to say something specifically on debanking , which be a concern that have be raise multiple time throughout the stage of the Bill . we be very clear that nobody — vulnerable or otherwise — should be debanke as a result of the Bill , as be make clear in the code of practice and in amendment we be consider today . there be many exist layer of protection in our exist process . on vulnerable people , Lords amendment 82 clarifie that the use of the power must be " necessary and proportionate " , which I believe would cover this . my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington make a specific point on whether EVM information alone be enough . we be bake in a human decision maker at all point throughout the process . we can not take a decision base on EVM information in isolation ; we must consider all other relevant information . practically , that mean that we must look at a benefit claim and check for disregard or for any other reason that someone may have capital in excess of £ 16 , 000 — the limit — before take any action . however , as I say early , I do think that this Bill be much improve from where we start . I just want to clarify one point . for the life of I , I can not understand why the Government be resist have contain within the annual review the question of whether harm be be do , because that is , to be fair , the only way we will learn whether the legislation be operate in the way the Government wish it to , and then whether any change in the system be need . when we have the work capability assessment , it take we 10 year and more than a thousand suicide before people accept that there be a problem , because there be no review mechanism publicly available . that be all this amendment be ask for . all I be ask for today be for the Minister to put on the record very clearly that it be perfectly appropriate for the independent reviewer to look at the harm that could have be create by this legislation . I appreciate the point my right hon . friend be make . as I have just say , the question of whether action take as part of the eligibility verification measure be necessary and proportionate be bake into the Bill , and I believe that would cover the point he be make . I strongly encourage my right hon . friend to attend the meeting with the independent reviewer that I refer to early to stress that point . I will certainly go along , and I will undertake to press on that , too . I understand where we be on Lords amendment 43 , but with the additional safeguard that will be bake in through the amendment in lieu , I believe we have reach a point where the Bill will achieve what it need to while be fair and protect vulnerable people . I urge all colleague to support the Government proposal today . lord amendment 1 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 1 . government amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 75 . lord amendment 75 , as amend , agree to . lord amendment 30 and 31 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 30 and 31 . clause 75 - Eligibility verification : independent review Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 43 . — ( Andrew Western . ) Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Mark Ferguson Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Sarah Green Monica Harding Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake Chris Law James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Tessa Munt Claire Young the House divide : Ayes 268 , Noes 80 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 43 disagree to . lord amendment 84 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 84 . lord amendment 97 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( f ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 97 . lord amendment 2 to 29 , 32 to 42 , 44 to 74 , 76 to 83 , 85 to 96 and 98 to 121 agree to . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up a Reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 43 ; that Andrew Western , Josh Simons , Taiwo Owatemi , David Pinto - Duschinsky , Chris Vince , Rebecca Smith and Steve Darling be member of the Committee ; that Andrew Western be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 5 to 7 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Trade that the draft Trade Act 2021 ( power to implement International Trade Agreements ) ( extension to Expiry ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 16 September , be approve . competition that the draft Motor Fuel Price ( Open Data ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 October , be approve . consumer Protection that the draft Product Security and Telecommunications Infrastructure ( Security Requirements for Relevant Connectable Products ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 October , be approve . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) question agree to . Petition - Swimming pool facility in Falmouth I rise to present this petition about Falmouth ' s need for a swimming pool , since our pool be shut in 2022 . the petitioner " therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to support the campaign to build a swimming pool in Falmouth , recognise the health and social benefit to the community , particularly as a facility for child grow up in a coastal area learn to swim safely . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of Truro and Falmouth constituency , declare that the town of Falmouth , a community with a strong maritime heritage and a large population of child , young people , and old resident , currently have no public swimming pool ; far declare that access to swimming facility be essential for water safety education , physical and mental health , rehabilitation , and community cohesion ; and note that the lack of such infrastructure disproportionately affect those without the mean to travel to facility elsewhere . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to support the campaign to build a swimming pool in Falmouth , recognise the health and social benefit to the community , particularly as a facility for child grow up in a coastal area learn to swim safely . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003126 ] drug - relate Deaths Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) I extend my thank to Mr Speaker for provide the opportunity to discuss the crucial matter of drug - relate death . I declare an interest as the unremunerated chair of the Centre for evidence base Drug Policy , a think - tank in this policy space . the Office for National Statistics report last month that death relate to drug poisoning have increase for the 12th consecutive year , and have consequently reach an all - time high once again . the ONS report that in 2024 , there be 5 , 565 death relate to drug poisoning in England and Wales , with just under half of those confirm to involve an opiate . continuity be therefore not a strategy ; it be a guarantee of further avoidable loss . every single one of those life matter , and every single one of those death be preventable . eight month ago , a similar debate be hold in Westminster Hall on the topic of prevent drug - relate death , to which the Minister respond . though it be a well - attend debate , during which member from across the House call for the expansion of harm reduction and evidence - base measure , I be afraid to say that , since then , limited progress have be make in advance drug policy to limit the unspeakable further loss of life in our constituency . stoke - on - Trent have the high number of drug - relate death in north Staffordshire . Synthetic cathinone , colloquially know as monkey dust , be use in Stoke - on - Trent to an extent not see elsewhere in the country . do my hon . friend agree that more need to be do to battle the scourge of monkey dust in Stoke - on - Trent ? I absolutely agree . there be huge regional disparity in drug death across the country , and a regional approach need to be take to tackle they . while I appreciate that drug policy and legislation do not fall under the Minister ' s departmental remit , I be happy to see she here , as the drug - relate death crisis be primarily a public health issue , and must be treat as such if we be to avoid repeat the same mistake of the last 50 year . I be proud to be a patron of Burton addiction centre , a residential rehab centre in my constituency . it be call for a 2 % target across the nation . do my hon . friend agree with that target for residential rehab ? perhaps the Minister would like to visit some time , when she be able to . I completely agree about the role that rehab facility can play in support people into recovery , and about the need for proper , consistent funding from the Government . I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward the debate . I congratulate she on the campaign , and on her word to the House on the issue . we all greatly admire what she do , and thank she for it . in Northern Ireland , there be 169 drug - relate death in 2023 . that be an increase of 47 % on the decade before , and it prove her point that the issue be not specific to her constituency ; unfortunately , this happen everywhere . do she agree that the tactic we have in place be not address the grow prevalence of drug abuse , and that not only this Government but the devolve government must work to save the precious soul who be pass away ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention ; without it , it would not be an Adjournment debate . I completely agree . the death that I be talk about today be drug poisoning in England and Wales only , but if we look at drug death in Scotland and Northern Ireland , and at death relate to alcohol and despair , we see that drug poisoning in England and Wales be a very small part of a huge issue in every part of our United Kingdom . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . Scotland have have the high number of drug death in Europe for seven year in a row ; there be 1 , 017 in 2024 . do she agree that cut to funding for rehabilitation facility and drug and alcohol support service undermine the holistic , comprehensive approach need if we be to bring down the number of drug death , and to give hope to those live with addiction , and to their family ? the number of drug death in Scotland be stark , and it underline the fact that the issue affect every part of the UK . we know what we need to do to start address it . I welcome the recent Scottish Affairs Committee report , which I will mention later . I have say before that put drug within the Home Office ' s ministerial purview be put the issue in the wrong place , so I be very happy that a Health Minister be here to respond . the current approach be root in the belief that we can simply arrest and imprison our way out of this . despite the death toll rise every year in the six year that I have be do this job , the Home Office seem to show not just a lack of curiosity but hostility towards harm reduction measure . my overarching question today be : will the Government finally take an evidence - base stance on drug policy to reduce the immense harm that the status quo cause in our constituency ? will the Minister work across Government to bring forward necessary change to the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 and deliver a fit - for - purpose , public - health - lead approach to drug across the UK , save thousand of life ? I thank my hon . friend for secure the debate . in the Bradford district , there be 70 drug - relate death in 2023 . I agree with she that we need to take a different approach to tackle the problem , and it must be a public health approach . the UK could learn much from country like Portugal , which have go a long way towards adopt such an approach to drug and drug - relate death . I absolutely agree . later , I will try to develop my argument for that kind of approach , which we could take here but do not . as a Parliament and as a society , we may have inadvertently come to accept the yearly statistic , and have perhaps not give they the necessary thought , but I stress that there be cost - effective solution that could save the taxpayer money and save the life of our constituent , while take money out of the pocket of exploitative , organise criminal gang . I be afraid to say that the problem may be far bad than be recognise . a recent report by King ' s College London indicate that there have be a severe under - reporting of drug - relate death over the past 15 year . the researcher find that drug - relate death have be under - report by 30 % , and opioid - relate death between 2011 and 2022 be find to be 55 % high than record , put the estimate number of opioid - relate death in that period north of 39 , 000 . I be grateful to my hon . friend for secure this debate . she will be aware that many of those who have die from complication and overdose relate to opioid die on their own . that reflect the social isolation that so many experience when they become addicted to drug . do she agree that it be incredibly important that the social isolation of those seek to move beyond addiction be break through , and will she join I in thank organisation like Jungle in my constituency , which seek to provide companionship and support for those who be try to move beyond addiction ? my right hon . friend be exactly right . the clear way to recovery be with companionship and support — there be no path to recovery without that — and I of course give credit to the organisation she mention that be do such fantastic work in this space , as we be discuss early today . the implication of the under - reporting of drug - relate death be that the problem be far bad than previously think and the decision to cut funding to service under the previous Government be base on flawed figure . the National Audit Office report that between 2014 and 2022 there be a 40 % reduction in real - term spend on adult drug and alcohol service , so I do not think it be a coincidence that the Office for National Statistics have report a near doubling in drug - relate death since 2014 , and that the number of death only rise every year . it be clear that the problem have be make substantively bad by under - investment by the previous Government . we can all acknowledge that , but acknowledgment without reform be meaningless . persist with failed , punitive policy will only deepen a crisis that already rank among Europe ' s bad . now be the time to show the difference a Labour Government can make by put in place harm - reduction policy that will start to undo this extensive damage . as I mention previously , and I will repeat again because it be important , near half of all drug - relate death register in 2024 be confirm to involve an opioid . in addition , this year ' s ONS report find that the number of death involve nitazene — a group of highly potent synthetic opioid — almost quadruple from the year before . this mark the beginning of a new stage in the drug - relate death crisis . as we have see across the Atlantic , once those synthetic opioid take hold , it become all the more difficult to limit their devastation . I welcome this Government ' s change to the human medicine regulation that far expand access to naloxone , the lifesaving opioid antidote administer in the event of an overdose . indeed , naloxone play a vital role in the fight against drug - relate death . however , further change be necessary and naloxone should be available rapidly and reliably in every community pharmacy in the UK , so that it can be quickly access in the event of an overdose . it be important to note that naloxone can not be administer by the person overdose and must instead be administer by someone else . that necessitate further education on the existence of naloxone , and how and when to use it , with people who may come into contact with people who use opioid , include frontline service worker , such as police officer and transport worker , and the love one of those struggle with addiction . the period immediately after release from prison or discharge from hospital be when risk peak . Opt - out pathway for naloxone distribution should be the norm . take - home naloxone on release or discharge , same - day linkage to community treatment and a clear pathway for handover care be essential for people struggle with substance use disorder . as of December 2021 , the Government estimate the annual cost of illegal drug use in England to be £ 20 billion . around 48 % of that be attribute to drug - relate crime , while harm link to drug - relate death and homicide account for a further 33 % . notably , the majority of those cost be associate with the estimate 300 , 000 people who use opiate and crack cocaine in England . Dame Carol Black ' s landmark 2021 review of UK drug policy find that for every for every £ 1 spend on treatment , £ 4 be save through reduce demand on the health and justice system . in the face of rise fatality and a cost of live crisis , fail to scale treatment and harm - reduction measure be both morally indefensible and financially illiterate . if we want to realise that four - to - one return , we must provide long - term funding for organisation deliver service . drug treatment service can only deliver if they be able to retain staff , train consistently and scale accord to demand . I commend my hon . friend for bring this important debate to the House . do she agree that organisation such as Change Grow Live , which I have visit in Rugby , be do superb work with people as they recover after the problem that they have be face , and that it be incumbent upon all of we to do everything we can to encourage the Government to ensure that those organisation get the funding and support they need to do that important work ? my hon . friend be exactly right : Change Grow Live be a fantastic organisation . Multi - year funding scheme with clear outcome metric , such as fast time for treatment , improve retention and improve naloxone coverage , will make a difference in bring down the figure I have talk about . that be the path out of this crisis . I recently receive a letter from my hon . friend the Minister for Policing and Crime state she could not support overdose prevention centre because of concern about organise crime supply the drug there . overdose prevention centre be a frontline , evidence - base intervention that save life and public money , reduce ambulance call - out and A & E attendance , cut public injecting and needlestick injury , and create a bridge into treatment . I recognise and share the Minister ' s concern about supply but , with or without such centre , people will use the same drug , either in alleyways and stairwell or in safe hygienic setting where sharp be dispose of , and where staff can intervene and build relationship that can be the foundation for recovery from addiction . the Scottish Affairs Committee recently publish a report into problem drug use in Scotland and Glasgow ' s safe drug consumption facility , and it be interesting to note the call for legislative action from the UK Government and Parliament and the fact that they seem to share my frustration with the Home Office ' s ideological rather than evidence - base approach on safe drug consumption facility . in write correspondence to I , my hon . friend the Minister for Policing and Crime also maintain that supply essential safe inhalation equipment would contravene current legislation , and that the Government be unable to support such a provision or to provide a legal pathway to address this . encourage drug user to change their method of consume drug from inject to inhaling can be an important harm reduction step , yet while supply clean hypodermic needle be exempt under section 9a of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 , the Government continue to support a policy of criminalisation of potential provider and user of safe inhalation equipment . I be grateful to my hon . friend for take an intervention , and indeed for bring forward this debate . as she have reference , the Scottish Affairs Committee have do some work on this issue and have visit the safe drug consumption room in Glasgow , but it have also look at facility in Norway and Lisbon . the disappointment we have be that at the moment the Thistle operate under the prosecutorial discretion of the Lord Advocate in Scotland and that could continue indefinitely — she have make that clear — as could her permission for other centre to open . we need a change in the legislation that would allow such centre to be set up across the country if necessary . there be go to be a three - year assessment of the Thistle , and if that assessment come up with the result that we think it might , then surely that evidence should be use to inform Government policy . our particular disappointment be that the Government seem not to think that be relevant . I absolutely agree and I take a note from that report : " however , it be clear from the Minister ' s evidence that the Home Office will not make legislative change , even if the evaluation find that the facility have be effective in meet its aim . " that be ideological , not evidence - base , which be why I believe the Home Office be fundamentally incapable of deal with drug death and drug harm in our community . I commend my hon . friend for secure this really important debate . do she agree that even if the Home Office do not agree with change legislation , more could be do within exist legislation , for example with drug checking facility , of which a very small number be already license by the Home Office ? that would allow those consume drug to have clarity about what they be consume , but it would also provide important intelligence to the authority about the drug that be in circulation to inform the response of health and other authority . I absolutely agree that more can be do without the need for a change in legislation , but it be concern that the Home Office do not look at legislation . despite everything that be say in the Home Affairs Committee ' s inquiry on drug in the last Parliament , for example , which make very clear how outdated our current legislative framework be , there do not seem to be curiosity about fix this . I completely agree with what my hon . Friend say about treatment and testing , particularly at large - scale event and festival , because that can be a lifesave intervention . it be both bizarre and frustrating that the Home Office actively choose not to take some of the measure it could take on safe drug consumption facility and safe inhalation equipment . that be something that be very much within its gift . we can not continue to hide behind a 1970s statue , periodically tighten but rarely review , that have too often exacerbate harm . if the House wish to take money out of criminal market , I ask the Minister to work across department to expand diamorphine - assist treatment , which be prove to be effective and cost - save both here and abroad , to provide dignified , supervise care for those with the most entrenched opioid dependence . after all , it be in this country that that type of world - class treatment originate , with the publication of the Rolleston report in 1926 . I have focus much of my remark on opioid , but in the short time remain I will touch on some other substance . the first substance be cocaine , with 1 , 279 death involve cocaine register in 2024 , which be 14 . 4 % high than in the previous year and 11 time high than in 2011 . that be perhaps not surprising , give that the UK be the large consumer of cocaine per capita in Europe and the second - large consumer of it in the world , accord to the OECD . the National Crime Agency estimate that in 2023 , England , Scotland and Wales consume 117 tonne of the drug . it be worth mention that around 52 % of homicide be drug - relate , and there be evidence that cocaine use be fuel domestic violence . in 2023 , a pilot scheme find that 59 % of domestic abuse offender arrest in seven police force area test positive for cocaine and / or opiate . the status quo be not work . the second substance be ketamine . while ketamine death be relatively low , with 60 death , the stat be again trend the wrong way , as be the prevalence of the drug in our community . I refer member to the rate of past - year ketamine use among 16 to 24 - year - old , which have double since the drug be reclassify from class c to class b in 2014 . we need a fit - for - purpose national drug policy , not a platform for point scoring or performative " tough on crime " posturing while harm continue to mount . there be much talk at the moment about the reclassification of ketamine to a class a drug , as if that be some sort of panacea , despite the fact that death from heroin and cocaine — both class a substance — have be increase year on year . it be as though the Home Office think that make something that be already illegal more illegal be somehow worthwhile . in the light of that , I have table a number of question recently on the effectiveness of the reclassification . I be genuinely concerned that no analysis of that move have be make , and the intention be clearly to ramp it up far . other policy lever be available . in particular , an emphasis should be place on tackle the mental health crisis among our young people , which can make the dissociative effect of ketamine an appealing proposition . throughout this debate , I have seek to lay out the extent of the problem and to offer realistic , cost - effective and constructive measure that could save this country billion of pound , not to mention thousand of life . there be solution to these issue , and the UK have both the expertise and the capacity to lead in this area . we must simply find the political expediency and courage to take bold action and do what be right . we can not govern as the careful custodian of a fail conservative settlement ; we must replace it . this be a solvable problem , and it be clear what work . with clear guidance , consistent commissioning and the courage to back frontline service , we can save life , support family and ease pressure on our NHS . we will not solve this problem overnight , but I hope to come back next year with the figure at least trend in the right direction . no amount of warm word or hand - wringing in this place will absolve we of our collective responsibility if we do not take the step necessary to do that now . we promise the country change , and it be now time to see it . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) on secure this debate , and I thank all hon . member from across the House for their wide - range intervention . they all raise a number of important point . the continued rise in drug - relate death be deeply concern , and my Department be committed to tackle it . I hope hon . member will recognise that my presence at the Dispatch Box confirm this Government ' s public health approach to drug - relate death . I continue to work with my colleague in the Home Office and other to bring forward measure to improve in this space . as my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North mention , the late Office for National Statistics figure show that more than 3 , 400 drug misuse death be register in England in 2024 , which be a continued increase on 2023 and over the past 12 year . in term of the work across our four nation , I be proud to regularly attend the UK ministerial drug and alcohol forum , and I work closely with my counterpart in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , have recently meet they just in September . I will continue to work with they in future . many drug death be preventable , and this Government be commit , through our health mission , to ensure that people live long , healthy life . through our safe street mission , we be also determined to make our community safe , more secure and free from the violence cause by the illicit drug market . we know that many people struggle with a drug problem be already at the sharp end of inequality , often with multiple and complex need ; there be strong link between drug use , prison , deprivation and homelessness . the Government ' s work to tackle drug - relate death and to fund and improve drug treatment and recovery service can therefore also contribute to reduce social inequality . we be committed to ensure that anyone with a drug problem can access the help and support they need , and that they be provide with evidence - base , high - quality treatment . treatment be protective , and be the safe place to be for anyone with a drug problem . in addition to the public health grant , in 2025 - 26 the Department of Health and Social Care be provide local authority with an additional £ 310 million to improve the quality and capacity of drug and alcohol treatment and recovery service . as a result of increase in funding , there be now nearly 345 , 000 people in structured treatment in England , which I be pleased to say be the high number on record . however , pattern of drug use be always change , and my Department remain alert to the need to tackle new threat . we recently launch a public awareness campaign inform by new pattern of drug use , focus on the danger present by synthetic opioid , ketamine and THC vape . that campaign include online film and target 16 to 24 - year - old , follow a worrying rise in the number of young people be harm by drug . it highlight particular risk , include the potentially irreparable damage that ketamine can cause to the bladder ; the danger of counterfeit medicine purchase online contain deadly synthetic opioid ; and the risk from so - call THC vape , which often contain dangerous synthetic cannabinoid such as spice rather than THC . we be distribute resource to local public health team , drug and alcohol treatment service , youth service , school and university , and we remain alert to the wide threat pose by synthetic opioid . we be work with other Government Departments to enhance surveillance and early warning , improve our ability to respond to this threat . we have establish new data stream , include collect information on death link to nitazene through laboratory testing and ambulance call - out in which naloxone be administer . as a result , we have a much close to real - time understanding of current level of prevalence and harm . in addition , we have provide datum to local area on factor relate to drug and alcohol death , and we be develop a self - assessment toolkit that local area can use to identify where to focus more on these issue and on intervention that be know to reduce the risk of drug - relate death . the first quarterly report of datum from those source have now be publish on the National Drug Treatment Monitoring System ' s website , and a weekly report be release to local authority . we also know that many people struggle with drug addiction have multiple and complex physical health need . together , these issue can be mutually reinforce , make treatment and support much more complex and often increase people ' s risk of overdose . we be develop plan to improve care pathway between drug treatment and service for physical healthcare need , such as heart and lung disease , as recommend by Dame Carol Black ; and intervene early and treat co - occur physical health condition to reduce drug - relate death and improve outcome . we be also look again at naloxone , the opioid reversal medication , which be a key pillar of the Government ' s response to drug - relate death . last year , this Government make change to legislation to enable more service and professional across the UK to supply that medication without a prescription , make it easy for people at risk and their love one to access . we intend to consult soon on further step to expand access to this lifesave medication . I once again thank my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North for secure this debate on such a critical issue . the Government be commit to reduce the harm that illicit drug cause to both individual and wide society . the Department of Health and Social Care will continue to champion a harm reduction and public health approach to drug - relate harm . many of these death be avoidable , and I be confident that the step we be take will put we in a strong position to tackle this complex issue . question put and agree to . House adjourn .