thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be great to follow my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) . I congratulate everybody who have do their maiden speech today , and this be the first time I have do it — I suppose that be why they be call maiden speech . I be proud to speak here for the first time , especially in this debate , as facility in Corby be use by athlete to train for the Olympics . Kieran Reilly , who live in Corby , win silver at the BMX freestyle . Adrenaline Alley be the venue he use in the constituency , a terrific venue that many use . I be delighted to be the Member of Parliament for the constituency of Corby and East Northamptonshire . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Tom Pursglove , who have the honour to represent Corby for nine year and become a Minister during that time . I know for a fact that he be very proud to serve his constituency , and I always find he extremely constructive and extremely cordial . I know that now , after Parliament , he be look at do work with disabled people and get disabled people well access to work . I hope that I will be able to work with he , because I be now chair an all - party parliamentary group on modernise employment . one area we be go to look at be how disabled people can access work , so I hope our path will cross again . I also thank Andy Sawford , the last Labour Member of Parliament for the constituency , who continue to be a good friend to our constituency . he be somebody I seek wise counsel from , and I be fortunate enough to say that I get that rather cheaply . he run a political consultancy , so if hon . member ever ask he for his opinion , it be go to cost they a lot of money , but whenever I do , I get it for free . thank , Andy , for be there for we as we move on . Corby and East Northamptonshire be a large constituency that I have have many year of deal with . I represent Corby ' s postal worker for over a decade , and I can tell you now that a fine group of worker you will never be able to meet . my daughter Hannah be marry at the wonderful venue at the Stanwick hotel , and my father be for a time a boot and shoe worker in the town of Raunds . indeed , Raunds have its place in history for fight for fair wage and good pay . next year mark the 120th anniversary of the Raunds strike of 1905 , which see worker who make boot for the Army march to Parliament to demand well pay . the War Office agree and set a minimum rate for their job . the case for fair wage and good pay be as relevant today as it be then . work should be the route out of poverty . it should not mean a lifetime trap in it , yet 40 % of child live in Corby and East Northamptonshire who live in poverty have at least one work parent . we need to reshape the world of work so that it pay , and our economy so that the dignity of a job be always well than no job . in - work poverty should be eradicate and chuck into the dustbin of history . today , we celebrate the new deal for work people be lay before this House . with that , we will have the foundation for a well future for work people . I want to be around to ensure we can do that . other part that make up my constituency include the market town of Thrapston , which boast its own livestock market . I be delighted to join Thrapston ' s mayor , Andy McGovern , at his recent service to celebrate his term of office . East Northamptonshire be also home to the town of Oundle . oundle school and Prince William school be two of three school in an open education partnership , which I be delighted to be able to support and facilitate , which see independent and state school come together to share their facility and good practice . Corby be a town build on steel . back in the day , many travel down from Scotland as steelworker , and the steelwork be build . resident be rightly proud of their heritage , which they celebrate each year with a weekend of highland game and many Burns supper . it have a proud history and a spirit that have see they rise against any adversity they have face . that be why after fight against the steelwork closure in the 1980 , which see over 10 , 000 people throw on the dole , they rebuild their town ; they rebuild their community , and they would not be beat . during my time on the campaign trail , one lady whose door I knock on capture that spirit . " I ' m stand to be your Member of Parliament at the next election , " I say . " that ' s amazing . my mum would really love to meet you ; can you come back in half an hour because we ' ve get guest at the minute ? " I say yes , so I go back . it turn out her mum have just stop take treatment for stage 4 cancer and want to live her day . she say to I , " I want you to do two thing . first , always speak up for Corby ; we ' re good people , we ' re proud people . the second thing I want you to do be get the no . 50 bus back . " I say , " okay , what ' s the no . 50 bus ? " the no . 50 bus be the direct bus that go from Corby to Kettering general hospital . " when my husband be in hospital , that be my lifeline to get to see he and I want it back , " she say . I be go to pop round to see her daughter because on 2 November , it be back ; it will take people directly from Corby to Kettering general . the only thing they can not do be give we the no . 50 back ; it be now the no . 2 because the no . 50 go to Peterborough and apparently it will cost money to get the number back , but I think the principle have be establish . I have spend my adult life represent work people , from the start when I take on an apprenticeship with the Royal Mail and I join my union , the Communication Workers Union . a lot of people talk about their schooling , their university , their training . the CWU be my schooling , my university , my training , and without a shadow of a doubt I would not be here today if it be not for the CWU . the journey here have be somewhat interesting to say the least . it start in the back of a taxi with I and Frances o ' Grady talk about the importance of working - class people enter our politic , because we be on our way to the funeral of Jack Dromey , a dear friend to this place , this party and our movement . I want to put on record my thank to the TUC for what it do in support I during my time as the candidate . it go from the back of a taxi with Frances to drive around Corby in a Vauxhall with Eamonn Norton and Mark Pengelly knock on the door of about 600 Labour party member to try to convince they I be the candidate they should all vote for . we do the good we could ; I become the candidate and now I represent that constituency . I know it be not go to be easy to do that , but I be determined to make a difference . there be issue that I want to get involve with and change I want to see . I want to see a difference in the world of work by make sure that work really do pay and be a route out of poverty . I want to make a difference to give a voice to so many family with child with special educational need who be be deny the basic right to education ; every child have the right to education , and have special educational need should not mean that they be deny that fundamental right . the House be go to discuss dignity in die , but there be another aspect to it that I want to talk about . in this country , it be legal to sack a worker on the ground of capability when they have a terminal diagnosis . that be fundamentally wrong ; we need to close that loophole and make sure that the last thing people worry about when they have such a diagnosis be the future of their job . we should not be treat people like that and we need to make the change accordingly . lastly , I want to thank my family for their support . I be a proud father , grandfather , son and brother to a family that have always be strong in value and principle and I thank they all . my mum could not be part of this journey here with I because she die several year ago , but I want to say her name , Patricia Eileen Lilian Barron , because now I have say her name they will write it down ; it will be in Hansard so no one can erase it and a bit of she will live forever , and I be proud to be able to do that . with much to do to make the change that we need to give people back a future that they can once again look forward to , I for one will do all I can to make it happen . our unity be our strength , our solidarity ; that be how we will get there and I intend to make the most of the time I have in this place .