I be delighted to be call to give my maiden speech , and I do so with a sense of trepidation and excitement , which I imagine that many a new MP feel . it have strike I that maiden speech be a little like bus : you wait age , and then 335 of they turn up at once . I beg your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , to listen to one more as we near the end of this journey . as hon . member will know , the excellent House of Commons Library helpfully provide we with the maiden speech of our last two predecessor , to give we a feel for this place and to acknowledge the work of those who come before we . Mr Selous serve for a whopping 23 year , and I pay tribute to his work as an assiduous constituency representative who stand up for what he believe in . I discover in his maiden speech that he in turn refer to his predecessor who serve for 31 year , who in turn hark back to the Member who come before he — the last Labour MP for the area — who be elect back in 1966 . clearly , 1966 be a year that be rather good for team in red , albeit follow by rather too many year of hurt . history show we how rarely change come for these community , yet change be desperately need : on shop - lifting , I have meet worker who have be spat at , threaten with needle and even a gun ; the lack of healthcare facility , include in Houghton Regis and Leighton - Linslade ; sewage pollute our waterway ; and transport . I be delighted to be a member of the Transport Committee , and transport be the subject of the debate , which I congratulate the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) on securing . my constituency have a long history of transport innovation . it have Britain ' s old road , date back to prehistoric time , the Icknield way , which run through the constituency . it have the Grand Union canal , the freight superhighway of its day . Leighton Buzzard railway once transport sand from quarry and be now a much - love tourism attraction , go full steam ahead . more recently , we have one of the long guide busway in Europe , which I hope one day can be extend . that bring I neatly to the topic of bus and encourage more people to switch on to they , which be so vital in this time of climate emergency . I welcome the BSIP investment announce recently by the Government , and I look forward to hear more from the Minister about plan to allow more local area to have a smoother path to franchising . I be keen for the Minister to look carefully at transport governance . London and Greater Manchester , which have franchise already , have also historically have alignment of transport power , resource and capacity all in one centralised place . passenger transport executive and their equivalent can accelerate the delivery of transport plan and play a crucial role in unlock regional economic growth . for 50 year , such structure have benefit from much high level of control and co - ordination of bus . they also benefit from run over a much more logical functional economic geography . outside such area , transport power be hold in many different place , and they require a number of organisation to independently agree reform to enact change . that can mean , for example , that bus stop , which be surely the window to the soul of bus , can be own by an organisation with no say in how the bus service itself be run . in many place in the country , highway and transport power be split . we perhaps need more passenger transport executive , although the Urban Transport Group advise that the last passenger transport executive be establish so long ago — not quite so long ago as when a Labour MP last represent Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard — that the mechanic around establish a new one be unclear . in any case , we need governance that be fit for the 21st century , with the right delegate function be grant to a passenger transport executive or equivalent , and the establishment of an executive function to speed up decision making and delivery that make the difference . it need to be base on a geography that reflect travel pattern as well as wide social and economic geography , and which give a large enough base to raise farebox income . on geography , I argue that there need to be possibility to franchise in area large than local transport authority . give that franchising be not entirely a silver bullet , I urge the Minister to look at the geography of enhance partnership as well . it be only one bus , but the F70 , which travel from Luton to Milton Keynes via Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard , go through three separate enhance partnership area . finally , I thank Grant Palmer , Arriva and First , which have invite I aboard their bus recently , and Dawsongroup for bring a double - decker bus just outside Parliament for Catch the Bus Month , which many hon . member from across the House come to support . it be my belief , really , that every month should be catch the Bus Month . I urge all hon . member to get on board and back our local bus all year round .