Speaker ' s statement I would like to draw member ' attention to the fact that the book for enter the private Members ' Bill ballot be now open in the No Lobby . it will be open until the House rise today , and while the House be sit tomorrow . the book will be available for member to sign in the No Lobby until 6 pm on both day , at which point it will be take to the Public Bill Office and remain open for signature until the rise of the House . the ballot itself will be draw at 9 am this Thursday , in Committee Room 8 . an announcement set out these and other arrangement , and the date when ten - minute rule motion can be make and presentation Bills introduce , be publish in the Order Paper . business before Questions Sessional Returns order , that there be lay before the House Returns for session 2023 - 24 of information and statistic relate to : ( 1 ) business of the House ( 2 ) closure of Debate , Proposal of Question , Allocation of Time and programming of Bills ( 3 ) sitting of the House ( 4 ) private Bills and private Business ( 5 ) Public Bills ( 6 ) delegate Legislation and Legislative Reform Orders ( 7 ) European Legislation , etc ( 8 ) Grand Committees and the Regional Affairs Committee ( 9 ) Panel of Chairs ( 10 ) Select Committees . — ( the Chairman of Ways and Means . ) Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Occupational Pensions : Tax Relief what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the level of tax relief for occupational pension contribution . I welcome the hon . member to his place . the Government encourage saving to ensure that people have decent income in their retirement , for instance through pension tax relief . I welcome the strong cross - party support for automatic enrolment that have be receive since 2005 , and the fact that 11 million more people be now save as a result . the Government have also launch a pension review which will ensure that money set aside for retirement be work both for pensioner and for the UK economy . I appreciate that member on both side of the House will have question for I about the tax system today . I remind they that tax announcement will be make in the Budget on 30 October , alongside an independent forecast from the Office for Budget Responsibility . this will be a Budget to fix the foundation , to rebuild Britain , and to ensure that work people be well off . do the Government recognise the importance of worker ' save for their later year ? do they recognise that any move to reduce the 25 % tax - free drawdown , or reduction in tax relief on pension contribution , would be a disincentive , and would actually lead to more pensioner poverty ? I recognise that for many people who work hard and save for retirement , that money be not enough . I believe that every penny save in a pension should produce a decent return . billion of pound of investment could be unlocked in the UK economy and could work well for those save for retirement , and we believe that the reform we seek to introduce through the pension review could increase their pension pot by £ 11 , 000 . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be lead the review that I mention to ensure that pensioner receive a good deal in retirement , and that people who sacrifice and work hard to save for their retirement have a decent return on their investment . pub be the lifeblood of our local community . in my constituency , the home of british brewing , we be bless with wonderful pub — order . unfortunately , supplementary question must be link to the main question . oh — sorry . Don ' t worry . I now call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the Chancellor and the entire Treasury team on their appointment . we have always have civil , albeit occasionally robust , interaction , and I be sure that will continue , but it be now our job to hold they to account for the important decision they make at the Treasury . during the election , Labour promise on more than 50 occasion not to increase taxis on work people . do it now recognise that work people have pension too , and can the Chancellor give those people , who be save for the future , peace of mind by confirm that the Government will not increase taxis on pension in the upcoming Budget ? I be not go to speculate about what will be in the Budget , but I be absolutely determined to ensure that work people be well off . under the last Government the tax burden reach its high level for 70 year , and ordinary work people pay the price for that . this will be a Budget to fix the foundation of the economy after the mess leave by the last government , to rebuild Britain , and to make work people well off . planning reform : fiscal Steps what fiscal step she be take with Cabinet colleague to reform the planning system . we have commit ourselves to deliver 1 . 5 million new home as part of our mission to achieve economic growth across the country , and we have already announce reform of national planning policy that will help to get Britain building . they include the reintroduction of mandatory housing target , and the removal of the effective ban on onshore wind in England . if unlocked , Anglia Square , a significant brownfield site in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , could provide more than 1 , 000 home and many job . the last Government fail to support the progression of this important site . can my right hon . friend tell I what local authority such as Norwich city council can expect from this Government ' s approach to deliver brownfield site with partner ? I thank my hon . friend for her follow - up question and welcome she to her place . as she know from the Chancellor and the Deputy Prime Minister , this Government take seriously our target to deliver 1 . 5 million new home , and we will look at each and every opportunity across the country to do so . that include make improvement to the system of developer contribution for community benefit to support the delivery of affordable housing and local infrastructure . the Minister know that the planning system be build on the ability to make millionaire at the stroke of a pen as a result of pass planning permission , which do not necessarily result in development that be in the good interest of a local community . surely there be more that the Government can do to ensure that we tip the planning system towards meet need , rather than greed . the issue of so - call hope value be reference in the Labour party ' s manifesto , and the Government will set out further detail in due course . Inward Investment : fiscal Steps what fiscal step she be take with Cabinet colleague to encourage inward investment . what fiscal step she be take with Cabinet colleague to encourage inward investment . what fiscal step she be take with Cabinet colleague to encourage inward investment . investment be at the heart of this Government ' s growth mission , alongside stability and reform . with robust fiscal rule and respect for economic institution , the Government be build the confidence need to deliver private sector investment . it be vital that the tax system also support growth , and today I can confirm that the Government will outline a tax road map for business at the Budget to offer the certainty that encourage investment and give business the confidence to grow , include our commitment to cap corporation tax at 25 % for the duration of this Parliament and to retain full expensing . I thank the Chancellor for her response . last year , the north - east attract 67 foreign direct investment project , create over 4 , 000 job . in the key growth sector , from advanced manufacturing to health and tech , those who know the north - east know our huge potential , and I know that the Chancellor recognise that too . what be she do with the Mayor of the North East , Kim McGuinness , to ensure that more global investor be aware of the north - east ' s strength and that we can attract more inward investment , create more job ? my hon . friend make an important contribution on behalf of her constituent , base on her background of work in science and technology before enter this House . my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that the north - east have huge potential to grow the economy through sector include advanced manufacturing , health , technology and our creative industry , and this Government will work with our local mayor , include Kim McGuiness , to develop ambitious , long - term local growth plan that reflect the north - east ' s strength . we will look to address some of the barrier to growth and support delivery of our national industrial strategy , as well as narrow some of the inequality that have persist for far too long . international investment be important for the aviation and aerospace sector , and aviation and aerospace be important for my constituent in Central Ayrshire , with 55 % of Scotland ' s aerospace job base in Prestwick . can my right hon . friend tell I what more the Government will do to ensure continued international investment in these sector ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and I know that his experience as his Majesty ' s trade commissioner in India mean that he understand the importance of global trade and investment to the UK economy , include the scottish economy . last week , I have the opportunity to visit the National Manufacturing Institute Scotland and see at first hand the excellent work that be go on to promote innovation in a whole range of sector , include aerospace and satellite technology . the UK already produce around half of the world ' s large civil aircraft wing and engine , and the aerospace sector add £ 11 billion to the UK economy last year . the Government be put investment at the heart of our growth strategy , include by support advanced manufacturing in Scotland , and I look forward to work with my hon . friend on this endeavour . I thank the Chancellor for her further reassurance to business this morning . London be the top choice in Europe for inward investment and be home to more headquarters than any other european city , include many base in Stratford , in my constituency . how will the Government support our capital city to continue its success on the global stage , and ensure that London can help encourage onward investment and support wide economic growth around the country ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and welcome she to her place . the regeneration of Stratford after the olympic game be truly phenomenal , and I know that she will be a strong voice for her constituency and help to deliver the growth mission , which be the no . 1 priority of this new Government . the success of London ' s economy will be integral to deliver that mission , and we will work with the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , and with our mp to ensure that economic growth benefit people in the capital and across the country , ensure that we narrow the gap between rich and poor and also showcase the huge opportunity that London have on the international stage . we will be host an international investment summit in London on 14 October , bring together some of the big global investor in the world , to showcase everything our great country have to offer . investment in our rural economy must focus heavily on reward our farmer for the food they produce and the environment they protect . the last Government ringfence £ 2 . 4 billion a year for England to support our farming sector . through indifference or incompetence , they underspent by £ 100 million last year and betray our farmer in do so . will the Chancellor confirm to I , my farmer and this House that she will not bake in that underspend , which be the fault of the last Conservative Government , and that she will at least commit to ringfence what be already invest in farming ? if not , hopefully she will back the Liberal Democrats ’ call to back £ 1 billion extra into farming so that we can feed our — order . Mr Farron , please do not take complete advantage . I think you have slightly stray from the original question . Chancellor , if you want to have a go at it , by all mean do so , but I will understand if you do not . the rural economy play an incredibly important role in our economic prosperity as a country , and boost food security and biodiversity be obviously incredibly important to a whole range of this Government ' s objective . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs hear loud and clear the message from the hon . member , and I be sure he will include it as part of his submission to the spending review on 30 October . I thank the Chancellor for that and I welcome she to her place . it be important to encourage inward investment . it be also important to address the issue of youth unemployment . as of the first quarter of 2024 , the youth unemployment rate in Northern Ireland be 5 % , compare with 3 . 8 % the month before . what discussion have the Chancellor have with the Northern Ireland Assembly Minister in charge to ensure that youth unemployment in Northern Ireland will be reduce to an acceptable figure , which should be zero ? a huge amount of inward investment go to Northern Ireland , as the hon . Gentleman know , and it be important that young people be able to take advantage of those huge opportunity in our economy , whether in financial service , advanced manufacturing , shipbuilding or the many other sector that be important to Northern Ireland . it be a travesty that something like one in five young people today be not in employment , education or training . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions will be bring forward a White Paper to ensure that everyone who can work do work and be give the support to succeed , both in Northern Ireland and across the United Kingdom . economic Stability what step she be take to help ensure economic stability . the Government be already take action to fix Britain ' s economic foundation , with a new approach to growth with three pillar : stability , investment and reform . sustainable public finance be necessary for economic stability and long - term growth , and the Government will set out the difficult decision need to secure the public finance in the Budget on 30 October . the Government have already announce a fiscal lock to support policy stability by ensure that fiscally significant announcement be subject to an independent Office for Budget Responsibility assessment . give the fiscal inheritance that we have be leave , the Chancellor have already have to make some difficult decision to ensure that economic stability . worker and pensioner just above the personal allowance threshold have already bear much of the brunt of the previous Government ' s cost of live crisis and fiscal drag , put many in a precarious position . what step be the Government take to ensure that , if there be to be far fiscal drag , these group be prevent from shoulder further burden ? I should have welcome my hon . friend to his place . it be the previous Government ' s decision to maintain tax threshold at their current level until 2028 . we have inherit an extremely difficult fiscal situation , mean that we can not undo everything they do , but the Prime Minister have be clear that those with the broad shoulder should bear the heavy burden . the Government be provide £ 0 . 5 billion , include the estimate Barnett consequential , to extend the household support fund in England for another six month , to 31 March 2025 . it continue to be our aim to support those who be most in need . the household support fund be specifically use by local authority to help the most vulnerable household cover the cost of essential such as food , energy and water . the cost of temporary accommodation be spiral out of control , and it be a source of economic instability for local government . Eastbourne borough council leader Stephen Holt , together with 118 cross - party council leader , write to the last Government to ask for urgent support and to propose a number of solution , but they be completely ignore . will this Chancellor meet I and local government leader , include Eastbourne ' s , to discuss what immediate support she can provide to help council across the country to tackle the temporary accommodation crisis ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . have serve as a local councillor for many year , I very much recognise the problem that he describe . I be sorry to hear about this troubling situation , and I will refer his comment to the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government and make sure that he get the response he should have have before . the Minister refer to the £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance leave by the last government , and which they hide from the british public . do that not highlight just how important it be to ensure transparency and independent analysis of economic decision ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . upon take office , as he say , we discover a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance that have be leave by the previous Government , and we have now uncover a litany of unfunded conservative spending commitment . we recently learn that the deficit be now £ 4 . 7 billion high than the OBR forecast in March because of the previous Government ' s economic recklessness . we will rectify this , and we will set out a clear spending plan , and an ambitious plan to get the country back into stable economic condition , at the Budget . give that the House of Commons Library estimate that the covid disaster cost the country between £ 315 billion and £ 415 billion , can the Minister explain how it be that even her own questionable figure of a £ 22 billion black hole be not a great deal high ? I think I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , but may I point out gently to he that , have our economy grow at the average rate of other OECD economy over the last 13 year , it would have be £ 140 billion large ? I also point out that under the Conservatives the tax burden rise to its high level for 70 year . I will take no lesson from the conservative party , because the last Government oversee the big drop in household real disposable income since record begin . cost of living : support for Pensioners what fiscal step she be take to support pensioner with the cost of living . what fiscal step she be take to support pensioner with the cost of living . what fiscal step she be take to support pensioner with the cost of living . this government support the triple lock . as a result , the state pension be worth £ 900 more than it be this time last year . in April , it will go up again by the high of inflation , average wage growth or 2 . 5 % . our commitment to the triple lock be for not just one year but the duration of this Parliament . in addition , pensioner will continue to benefit from free eye test , free prescription and free bus pass , and those pensioner most in need will continue to receive winter fuel payment alongside the pension credit . I thank the Chancellor for her answer , but nearly 22 , 000 pensioner in North Shropshire be forecast to lose their winter fuel payment very soon , just as energy price for the average household be about to go up by 10 % . many of my pensioner live in bungalow and old housing stock , which be expensive to heat . a lot of they have be in touch with I to say that they be worried sick about this winter . we know the Chancellor have difficult choice to make , and we accept that , but will she consider that the broad shoulder be not those of pensioner who earn less than the minimum wage and be about to lose this vital support ? I understand the concern that the hon . Lady set out . the state pension be worth £ 900 more than it be a year ago and energy bill be low this winter than they be last winter . as she point out , we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole from the previous Government , who have make unfunded spending commitment with no idea how to pay for they . when I become Chancellor , I undertake an immediate audit of the spending situation to understand the scale of the challenge , and I make difficult decision — some very difficult decision — to put the public finance on a sustainable footing . they be tough decision , but they be the right decision in the circumstance we face . they include the decision to make the winter fuel payment well target , so pensioner who need it most will still get it alongside pension credit . target the winter fuel payment will save around £ 1 . 5 billion a year to support public finance . some 21 , 000 pensioner in my constituency of Torbay will be impact by the cut . in Devon and Cornwall , almost 90 % of pensioner will be impact by it . while many of we acknowledge that the Chancellor be leave with a massive financial challenge when she come into the post , I remain extremely concerned about the resident who have reach out to I and colleague with their major concern about make end meet as we enter the winter period . they have have no time to save and it be a complete shock to they . what assurance can the Chancellor give that the Government will support those who be most vulnerable ? if those measure fail , what assurance can she give that she will scrap the proposal ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and welcome he to his place . he will be a powerful representative for the people of Torbay . like he , I want to ensure that the low income pensioner get the support they be entitle to . under the previous Government , 800 , 000 pensioner household that be entitle to pension credit do not receive it . that be why this Government be take action to encourage the uptake of pension credit to ensure that the poor pensioner — those who be not even receive the minimum income guarantee — be get it . we be work with organisation such as Age UK and local authority . all local authority , include those in Torbay , have be write to about how they can play their part in identify those pensioner who be entitle to pension credit but be not get it . the Department for Work and Pensions will also bring together the administration of pension credit and housing benefit , so that pensioner household receive housing benefit will also receive any pension credit they be entitle to — something the previous Government defer for year , despite know that the poor pensioner be miss out . the Chancellor ' s announcement of cut to the winter fuel payment be quickly follow by news of a 10 % increase in the energy price cap . South Devon have a high than average number of pensioner , many of whom , particularly those in rural area , be live in fuel poverty . many of my constituent be struggle to meet the cost of heating , but do not quite qualify for pension credit . they , and thousand of vulnerable people across the country , be deeply anxious about what this winter have in store for they . will the Chancellor take this opportunity to spell out exactly how she plan to tackle fuel poverty among the elderly ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . pensioner in South Devon , in common with pensioner in all our constituency , will receive a basic state pension that be worth £ 900 more than it be a year ago , and energy price be low this winter than they be last winter . many of her constituent will be entitle to pension credit but , because of a failure to act by the last government , be not currently receive it . we all need to play our part in ensure that everybody get the help they be entitle to . we should all ensure that our poor pensioner get that support from both pension credit and the winter fuel payment associate with it . the village of Copley , in my constituency , be the snowy in England and we have many pensioner in receipt of the basic state pension who be , none the less , in fuel poverty . they be not entitle to pension credit . they live in cold , stone - build house . what assurance can the Chancellor give to those pensioner that this Government will help to warm their home and ensure they do not struggle to heat their home this winter ? this Government have commit to insulate an additional 5 million home during the course of this Parliament to ensure that energy bill be as low as possible , save people money and ensure that their home be warm . that will help my hon . friend ' s constituent in Copley and constituent across the country . will the Chancellor explain to the House the damage do to pensioner ' livelihood by the previous Government ' s economic incompetence and their decision to cover up the £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to remind we of the dire inheritance that this Government face . the previous Government make spending commitment after spend commitment with absolutely no idea of how to pay for they . from road and rail project to a - level and the Rwanda deal , we see £ 22 billion of unfunded commitment . we will fix the foundation of the economy , rebuild Britain and ensure that work people be well off . we will fix the mess that the last Government leave . will the Chancellor confirm that a state pension increase will be announce at the Budget and that it will be equivalent to wage growth , inflation or 2 . 5 % — whichever be high ? the Government have commit to the triple lock not just for this year , but for the duration of this Parliament . that mean that pensioner be £ 900 well off than they be a year ago . base on September earning and inflation datum , we will uprate pension next year by whichever be high : 2 . 5 % , inflation or average earning . we be ensure that pensioner get the pension that they be entitle to and have contribute to . I call the shadow Minister . ten year ago , the now Chancellor argue in this House that winter fuel payment should be mean - test and cut for " the rich pensioner " . the Chancellor ' s 10 - year campaign have now come to fruition and she have propose remove the winter fuel payment from pensioner on just £ 13 , 000 a year . do she still think that a pensioner on £ 13 , 000 a year be rich ? what come to an end in July be 14 year of a Conservative Government who preside over a fall in living standard , the high tax burden in 70 year , a debt , as a share of our economy , of almost 100 % , and a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance just this year . what we have not hear from those on the Opposition Front Bench , or indeed from any Conservative Member of Parliament , be an apology for the mess that they have leave this country in , which this Government be now pick up . Energy Bills : support for Households what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support household with energy bill . I welcome the hon . member to his place . since take office , the Government have set up the clean energy mission board to enable progress towards the 2030 target . that will accelerate the transition away from fossil fuel to clean , home - grow power , and it will boost Britain ' s energy independence and security . the Government will also set up a new publicly own energy company , great British Energy , which will save family money by ensure that electricity bill be no long expose to gas price shock , and a warm home plan will improve energy efficiency in home and cut bill . over the past few week , I have be inundate with question from the people of Winchester about the cut in the winter fuel allowance , and it seem as though people from all part of the House be get similar correspondence . although I totally understand that there be many wealthy pensioner who do not rely on the winter fuel allowance to heat their home , a large proportion of pensioner live on or near the poverty line and will be plunge into crisis this winter . give the huge strength of feeling in all part of the House , will the Chancellor reconsider her decision ? if not , will she at least commit to a vote and a debate in the House about how we well protect our most vulnerable — order . sorry , I have to get through the Order Paper . put in for an Adjournment debate . Minister , I think you get the gist . I thank the hon . member for his comment , but as my right hon . friend the Chancellor set out , the state pension be £ 900 more this year than it be last year , thank to the triple lock . we have commit to maintain the triple lock as the foundation of state support for pensioner throughout the rest of this Parliament . energy bill be low this year . it be crucial that he and other member across the House support our goal to increase the take - up of pension credit . if we make sure that all pensioner who be eligible for pension credit take it up , they will thereby receive the other benefit , include the winter fuel payment , to which they be entitle . I call the shadow Minister . during the general election , the Labour party commit to bring down energy bill by £ 300 . now that the election be over , energy bill be go up by some 10 % . on behalf of the british electorate , especially the 10 million pensioner who be have their winter fuel payment take away , I ask the Minister to confirm to the House that the £ 300 cut be still labour policy . if it be , specifically how be the £ 300 calculate , and when will it be deliver ? I thank the shadow Minister for his comment and welcome he to his new place . he refer to the cost of energy . as we know , the cost of energy be substantially low than it be this time last year , but we be under no illusion about how much more we need to do to make sure that energy bill be truly affordable and that we tackle the cost of living crisis . that be why we have set to work straight away in establish Great British Energy , alongside our national wealth fund , which will help to invest in the clean energy source of the future and bring down energy bill for good . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . we know that the Government have inherit a mess , and that at the centre of that mess be a £ 22 billion hole leave in the public finance by the previous Government , but that can not be allow as cover for measure that cause suffer for the most vulnerable in society . the Chancellor will have hear Lib Dem colleague talk about the hardship that the scrapping of the winter fuel allowance will mean for their constituent , so can she assure we that she will give her full support to measure to boost the uptake of pension credit ? most crucially , will she give the House the opportunity to have a proper debate and a vote on this cut , which will have such an impact on so many ? I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for her comment and for recognise the state of the finance that we inherit — the £ 22 billion in - year black hole that we need urgently to address to put our finance on a firm footing . it be essential to boost the uptake of pension credit , as the Chancellor set out . some 800 , 000 pensioner who be eligible for pension credit be not take it up . we see a lack of action under the previous Government to drive up that uptake , and we be oversee a campaign across Government to increase the number of pensioner who access pension credit and thereby the winter fuel payment . I welcome that response , but if the Government be ask we all to make difficult sacrifice , people need to know that the Government be make the vital investment that will protect the vulnerable and help to deliver economic growth . do the Chancellor agree that now be the time to work across Government to launch an emergency home energy upgrade programme to provide free insulation and heat pump for low - income household ? a crucial part of the manifesto commitment that we bring into Government be to increase the insulation of up to 5 million home across the country . we will set out further detail of our plan for insulation in due course , but we know that that be the kind of investment that bring down energy bill for good . living Standards what step she plan to take to help improve living standard . what step she plan to take to help improve living standard . what step she plan to take to help improve living standard . the Government be focus on improve living standard across the country , which be why growth be a key priority . if real household disposable income per capita have grow from 2010 to 2023 at the same rate as it do between 1997 and 2010 , it would have be £ 4 , 000 high last year . this government ' s approach will centre on foster good work . the Government will reform employment support to offer more people dignity and purpose in meaningful employment . the plan to make work pay set out a significant and ambitious agenda to ensure that workplace right be fit for the modern economy and to empower work people and deliver economic growth . we have launch a ministerial taskforce on child poverty and update the Low Pay Commission ' s remit to consider the cost of live when make recommendation on the national living wage . I thank the Minister for that reply . many of my Blackpool South constituent have contact I regard the means - testing of winter fuel allowance and the link to pension credit . there be probably thousand in my constituency who do not receive pension credit and be potentially miss out on £ 3 , 900 a year . what step be the Government take to ensure that all pensioner in my constituency and across the country receive what they be entitle to ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he be absolutely right to highlight how important it be to make sure that all those who be eligible for pension credit but be not claim it sign up and thereby receive the benefit to which they be entitle , which now include the winter fuel payment . the Government be undertake a new campaign to drive take - up , and the Department for Work and Pensions be hold a pension credit week of action in the first week of September , when promotional activity will be support by organisation include Age UK and local authority . there will be further action in the come month , include on tv , in the press and on radio , and we will be write directly to up to 120 , 000 pensioner who receive housing benefit but be not claim pension credit to encourage a claim where they may be eligible . the economic chaos of previous conservative Governments push up interest rate , cause mortgage cost to rise by £ 500 a month for family in Barnet . what step be the Chancellor take to bring down those rate so that family who have work hard and save hard can get the living standard boost that they so desperately need ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . as he rightly point out , the recklessness of the previous Government have have a direct impact on his constituent ' living standard . as a new government , we recognise that many household right across the country have face high mortgage cost in recent year , and we be already take action to fix Britain ' s economic foundation with a new approach to growth , with the three pillar of stability , investment and reform . sustainable public finance be necessary for economic stability and long - term growth . the Government will therefore set out the difficult decision need to secure the public finance in the Budget on 30 October . in North Warwickshire and Bedworth , like in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , monthly mortgage cost rise by an average of 22 % in the year follow the previous Government ' s disastrous mini - Budget . that make life really difficult for hard - work family in my constituency . what step be the Chancellor take to ensure that such a devastating situation can never happen again to family in my constituency and across the country ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . she be absolutely right to highlight just how much damage the Conservatives ' recklessness in 2022 cause to family in North Warwickshire and beyond . the decision of Conservative Ministers unleash economic turbulence that push up people ' s mortgage and make people across Britain bad off . our new Government will hardwire Budget responsibility into Government with our new fiscal lock in the Budget Responsibility Bill , which will make sure that the disaster we see nearly two year ago can never happen again . the live standard of nearly 50 , 000 pensioner in Malvern Hills district and Wychavon district be go to deteriorate very sharply this winter in the face of a 10 % increase in their energy bill and no winter fuel allowance . many of those pensioner have income just above the pension credit threshold , and many be too frail and too old to work . yet within the first few day of come into office , the Chancellor manage to spend over £ 22 billion very quickly by set up great British Energy and a national wealth fund , and by give in to the pay demand of her party ' s union paymaster . be it not the case that this Chancellor have make the chilling political choice to balance the book of this country on the very frailest shoulder ? I be disappointed that the hon . Member be talk down essential investment that we have make in our country ' s future . she also seem to be confuse : there be a £ 22 billion black hole because of the unfunded spending commitment make by the Conservative party when it be in government . but she make an important point about protect pensioner , which be why it be so important to ensure that all those pensioner who be eligible for pension credit take it up , and I look forward to her support in make sure that they do so . statistic from the Trussell Trust publish today show that half of people on universal credit run out of money and could not afford to buy food before the end of the month . what prospect do those people have of an increase in their living standard ? the reintroduction of the household support fund be welcome , but what step be the Treasury take to make sure that people do not go hungry this winter ? as the hon . Member rightly point out , the Government be provide £ 500 million to extend the household support fund in England for another six month , and that will include Barnett consequential . that be an important measure to help people in the month ahead , but the crucial way to increase people ' s living standard and tackle the cost of live crisis in the long term be to get the economy grow . we have speak at length about the measure that we have already take as a new government — from plan reform and the national wealth fund to great British Energy . all that be about get the economy grow , because that be the sustainable way to make people well off and to invest in our public service . mean - test the winter fuel payment increase the burden on many vulnerable people and reduce their living standard . unlike the Scottish Government , who have many statutory constraint on their budget , the Chancellor ' s fiscal rule be entirely self - impose . do the Minister think that stick to the Chancellor ' s fiscal rule be more important than the health and wellbeing of pensioner ? let I be clear : if we do not have fiscal responsibility — if we do not stick to fiscal rule — we will lack the economic stability that be so crucial to get the economy grow and ensure that people across Britain be well off . we must return stability and fiscal responsibility to our country follow the Conservative Government ' s record . we see what happen when they lose control of the public finance and make unfunded spending commitment . we need to ensure that that never happen again , which be why we be hardwire fiscal responsibility into the future of government through our new Budget Responsibility Bill . economic Growth what progress she have make on increase economic growth . what progress she have make on increase economic growth . sustained economic growth be the only route to improve the prosperity of our country and the living standard of work people . that be why we have already take a number of action to begin deliver on our growth mission — the no . 1 priority of this new Labour Government — which include a series of planning reform to get Britain building ; the establishment of a national wealth fund to bring in private sector investment ; the announcement of a pension review to unlock growth , boost investment and deliver well return to pensioner ; the launch of Skills England ; and the announcement of the forthcoming White Paper on get Britain work again . this Government be determined to boost growth and improve living standard , and , by do so , to have the money that we need to fund our vital public service . the delivery of so much of what the Chancellor describe run through local government . what progress have be make on give local council long - term funding settlement ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to make that point . the Government be commit to deliver long - term certainty for local authority , as part of our wide commitment to a more empowered , accountable and sustainable local government system that will support strong public service in all our community . the Government will set out further detail on our plan for local government funding in the upcoming Budget and spending review on 30 October . this year alone , two more high street bank branch have close in Monmouthshire , bring the total to eight in the past two year . my constituent now find themselves struggle to access basic banking service — particularly in Caldicot . I be recently hand a petition that have be sign by more than 3 , 500 constituent . I be sure that the Chancellor understand the importance of high street banking not only to our constituent but to local business and local economic growth . what progress have she make in her work with colleague in the Welsh Government to support high street bank and hub in Monmouthshire and across Wales ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place ; it be already obvious that she will be a strong voice for the people of Monmouthshire . in our party manifesto , we commit to roll out 350 banking hub in community like those she speak about , which have lose multiple bank in the past few year . the Economic Secretary to the Treasury will happily meet my hon . friend to work on achieve one such banking hub in her constituency . that be an offer to member right across the House ; so many of our constituency have lose bank branch in the past few year . for old people , small business and family , the lack of access to cash can be devastating , and we be determined to reverse it with the roll - out of the new banking hub . growth and additional runway capacity at Gatwick be again on the agenda . my constituent who work at that airport and those who fly from there benefit from its stability and reach , but it need to be recognise that any expansion of flight require a careful balance between additional home and job . will the Chancellor confirm that suitable growth will not come at the expense of community such as mine without proper consultation and acknowledgement of its impact ? I thank the hon . Lady for that question . this Government be pleased to sign off the expansion of London City airport , because we recognise how important aviation be to our economy , get growth and investment into the UK . of course , it be right that we always take local view into account and make sure that any investment in , or expansion of , airport come with the infrastructure that be need for local community , but the answer to decision — whether on road , rail , energy or aviation — can not always be no . if it be , we will continue with the situation we face over the past 14 year : low growth , deteriorate living standard and worsen public infrastructure . we can not continue like that . as I see it , the taxpayer be now accountable to the state . the state be not accountable to the taxpayer , and I think that a lot of our lack of growth be root in the fact that many of our office run by the state be not work , and be actually strangle our economy . I would like to know what the Chancellor be go to do to ensure that Government be as accountable to the taxpayer as the taxpayer be to Government . that be the purpose of election , and at the last election , this Government achieve a sizeable majority for our mission , include grow the economy , improve living standard and make work people well off . we have just get start , and that be what we be absolutely determined to do , in order to deliver on the mandate we get on 4 July . I call the shadow Minister . the Institute of Directors ' late economic confidence index show that optimism about the economy fall back to minus 12 last month , follow a three - year high of plus 7 in July . can the Chancellor explain how Labour ' s tax rise on work people , business and pensioner will contribute to economic growth when the economy be already go backwards under this Labour Government ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question , I think . on 14 October , we be host an international investment summit , welcome to London some of the big investor in the world . in the two month that I have be in this role , I have meet over 300 business leader , talk to they about the huge opportunity to invest in our great country , include in life science , financial service , the creative industry and low - carbon technology . the opportunity be endless , and this Government be determined to work with business to ensure that we bring good job , investment and prosperity right across the United Kingdom . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this Government have inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , and rectify the situation require tough choice . we will also clamp down on egregious spending and halve Government spending on consultancy , which will save £ 500 million next year . increase consultancy spend have be rife across Government for the past four year . it be up 55 % at the Department for Transport , 137 % at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , and a staggering 416 % at the Home Office . it be no wonder taxis be so high and public service be so poor when the last Government fritter away taxpayer ' money with no concern . I will treat taxpayer ' money with respect , and we will fix the foundation of our economy so that we can rebuild Britain and make work people well off . I welcome the Chancellor to her place . notwithstanding what she have just say , can she tell the House why she have make the political decision to scrap the commitment to spend at least 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , undermine our support for Ukraine , and have instead prioritise give her union paymaster inflation - bust pay rise that have only lead to more union call for more strike and more pay ? let I respond directly on the issue of Ukraine . in my first couple of week in this job , I have the pleasure of meeting Minister Marchenko from Ukraine , and make a commitment to he to go ahead with the extraordinary revenue acceleration programme . it be important that we work together across the House to support the ukrainian people against the russian invasion . in the previous Parliament , Labour always support the government when they take action to support the ukrainian people , and I hope that that cross - party support can continue . can I remind everybody that this be topical question ? I have a big list to get through . Rachael Maskell will give we a good example . in York , the average rent rise of 11 . 9 % exceed the state pension rise by £ 380 this year . with the loss of the cost of living payment and winter fuel payment , and the increase in the energy price cap and cost of living , pensioner be frightened about how they be go to keep warm this winter , as be I . in change the eligibility for the winter fuel payment , how will my right hon . friend protect pensioner above the pension credit threshold to prevent cold , ill health or worse this winter ? the basic state pension be worth £ 900 more than it be a year ago , and will go up again in April next year because of the triple lock , which we have commit to for the duration of this Parliament . we have already write to York council and be work with local authority across the country to boost take - up of pension credit , because this Government , unlike the last government , be determined to ensure that 800 , 000 people entitle to pension credit actually receive it . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . when the Chancellor be sit on the Opposition Benches she repeatedly attack cronyism , so will she tell the House whether she tell the Treasury permanent secretary that Ian Corfield have make a donation to she before she get he appoint as a director in the Treasury — yes or no ? all government appoint people to the civil service . the donation from Ian Corfield be declare over a year ago in the proper way , and we answer all the question in the right way that the civil service ask when we make that appointment . Ian Corfield be support this Government in host the international investment summit , which will bring hundred of global investor to the UK next month . I think that mean the answer be no . the ministerial code state : " minister must ensure that no conflict arise , or could reasonably be perceive to arise , between their public duty and their private interest , financial or otherwise " . that do not happen . will the right hon . Lady tell the House why cronyism be wrong under the Conservatives but acceptable under Labour ? the right hon . Gentleman have a bit of a brass neck criticise this government , after the appointment and the partying at Downing Street that we see under the last Conservative Government , and the billion of pound ' worth of contract hand out to friend and donor of the conservative party . that be why this Government be appoint a covid corruption commissioner to get that money back for taxpayer ; because unlike the last government , we be determined that taxpayer ' money be treat with respect , and not hand out to donor of the party . Age UK report that there be around 1 million pensioner who just miss out on the winter fuel payment . these be people live on modest income , within £ 50 of the poverty line , who will miss out due to a tiny occupational pension , and they include many in Liverpool Wavertree . we have hear about the campaign to take up pension credit , but can my right hon . Friend tell we specifically whether that pension credit will be backdate ? yes , absolutely ; pension credit can be backdate by up to three month , and we will ensure that that happen . we be also work closely with Liverpool city council to ensure that the constituent in Liverpool Wavertree , and indeed in all our constituency , be get the support that they entitle to . the poor pensioner , who be entitle to pension credit , should get it . it be a travesty that 800 , 000 miss out under the last Conservative Government . we will ensure that pensioner entitle to support get it . it be estimate that the Bank of England will require a furth £ 110 billion of taxpayer subsidy to cover long bond sale loss through to 2030 . so why be the Chancellor clobber pensioner to save £ 1 . 5 billion a year when she could be challenge the Bank of England to save ten of billion of pound a year ? before I become a Member of Parliament I be an economist at the Bank of England and I respect the independence of the Bank of England . the previous Government undermine that independence . that contribute to the economic chaos that we see under the last Conservative Government . this government will never go down that route . will the Chancellor of the Exchequer confirm that her decision be target at win new investment in green industry in place such as Billingham in my constituency ? I welcome my hon . friend to this House , because he bring a great deal of expertise on green steel from his previous career . this government ' s plan to launch the national wealth fund be precisely to create investment across the country in some very important strategic industry , and that include decarbonisation of steel and the steel industry . the prospect of the financial collapse of a major utility company such as Thames Water should cause we all grave concern give not only what it would mean for consumer in my constituency and many constituency like it , but the wide implication it would carry for our economy and the Government finance . do the Chancellor therefore agree that put Thames Water into special administration and reform it would protect not just consumer , include my constituent , but the wide economy ? water company be commercial entity . it would therefore not be appropriate for I to comment on that . it be for the company and its investor to resolve their possible issue . for decade , member of the mineworker ' pension scheme in Cannock Chase and across the country have see billion go to successive government . with an average of 19 scheme member pass away every day , resolution can not come too soon . what progress have be make on transfer the Government ' s share of the MPS investment reserve to scheme member ? I champion this issue in the last Parliament as Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I be pleased to confirm that I be work with colleague across Government to make progress , and I will update the House far in due course . story of crumble public infrastructure be all too common . Stepping Hill hospital in Hazel Grove have have to close building because their condition be no long deem safe , and we have see footage of medic have to wade through flood corridor when pipe have burst . the allocate capital money simply can not cover the repair backlog . how will the Chancellor ensure that hospital such as Stepping Hill can access the capital investment they need both to repair crumble building and to deliver additional site where need ? the Government be review the new hospital programme as part of our spending review . we will undertake a full and comprehensive review while continue to deliver the most advanced and most urgent hospital in a realistic timeframe . the letter from the Cabinet Secretary to the former Chancellor that emerge this morning clearly state that the failure by the last government to hold a spending review follow the unexpected national and global pressure significantly contribute to the fiscal challenge that the Labour Government inherit . what can the Chancellor learn from this ? the conservative party crash the economy and then wreck the public finance , leave we with a £ 22 billion black hole . the shadow Chancellor be not willing to be straight about the damage he do , and be now try to pass the buck to independent civil servant . I will always be honest about the public finance and take the tough decision that we need to fix the foundation of our economy . in July , borrowing stand at £ 3 . 1 billion , well ahead of the OBR ' s forecast of £ 0 . 1 billion . do the Chancellor agree that she could have reduce the national debt have she choose not to reward her trade union paymaster by spend £ 10 billion on inflation - bust pay rise ? as the hon . Gentleman know , government borrowing be run at £ 4 . 7 billion high than the OBR forecast because the previous Government make unfunded commitment without any idea of how they be go to be pay for . the previous Government set the mandate for the independent pay review body , and we have honour the recommendation of those body to ensure that our armed force , our police officer , our nurse and our teacher get a pay rise . I think that be the right thing to do . if he do not , I wonder how he justify that to public sector worker in his constituency . do the Minister share my concern about report of trade union victimisation at HMRC ' s Benton Park View office in Newcastle , where three public and Commercial Services Union rep have already be dismiss and more face live disciplinary proceeding ? I be pleased to welcome those three rep to Parliament today . will the Minister agree to meet they and the PCS about this worrying situation ? as Ministers , we greatly value and respect trade union and the work of trade union representative in support their member . while it be not appropriate for I to comment on individual case , I will look into this matter far and respond to my hon . friend in due course . the Chancellor ' s decision to cut the winter fuel payment be forecast to save £ 1 . 5 billion . can she advise the House what other option she consider for make saving in the Department for Work and Pensions budget before decide to make this cut ? the black hole we inherit be £ 22 billion . we announce in the statement on 29 July £ 5 . 5 billion of saving to reduce the size of that black hole , but the hon . Gentleman can see there be still work to be do and we will be set out further measure in the Budget on 30 October to get a grip of the public finance . a forthcoming Transparency International report have identify 28 contract worth £ 4 . 1 billion that be award to party with direct political connection to the conservative party , so can the Chancellor update we on the progress in appoint the covid corruption commissioner and whether they will take evidence from corruption campaigner such as Transparency International ? we be appoint a fix - term covid fraud commissioner through an open competition that be now run as of this morning . the commissioner will make sure everything be do to return money owe to the taxpayer . it will report to the Chancellor , work with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , and will report to Parliament in due course . the economic potential of the Brigg and Immingham constituency and the wide Humber region be heavily dependent on the renewable energy sector . however , there be a cloud on the horizon , with the future of Scunthorpe steelwork in doubt . can the Chancellor give an assurance that if there be redundancy at Scunthorpe , there will be a generous package of support for worker and investment through the local authority to redevelop the area ? the hon . Gentleman speak powerfully about the huge opportunity at Immingham and on the whole east coast through renewable energy and carbon capture and storage . part of the reason for the national wealth fund be to invest in industry such as CCS , but also in our crucial steel sector , which be important to so many of the other Government ambition on grow our economy . we be determined to support the steel sector through that investment from the national wealth fund . the Chancellor ' s plan for growth be welcome in Cornwall , but in the meantime we be rely upon share prosperity fund and town deal money . the deadline for the completion of those scheme be March 2025 and March ' 26 . to ensure that investment be not lose , will the Chancellor consider extend the deadline for completion of those scheme by up to 12 month ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and welcome she to her place . she speak powerfully on behalf of the people of Cornwall . the spending review will be the appropriate time to look at the share prosperity fund and what resource we can give to the people of Cornwall , and I be sure my hon . friend will work with the relevant Secretaries of State to ensure those representation be hear . the Chancellor would have know , in advance of the cut to the winter fuel payment and the stripping of £ 160 million from pensioner in Scotland , that scottish pensioner suffer the low temperature , rural scottish pensioner live in some of the old house on these island , and most scottish pensioner in rural area be off the gas grid . know that , what discussion do she have with her 37 new Scottish Labour mps about push scottish pensioner into fuel poverty ? I would just note that the Scottish Government have decide to mirror what the wide UK Government be do rather than use the tax power that they have . that be a decision the Scottish Government have make give the fiscal situation they face ; we face a similar issue with a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . I welcome this Government ' s plan to get Britain build again with a commitment to build 1 . 5 million home across our country . there be also 1 million home for which council have give planning consent , and those with skin in the game need help and support to get those house unlocked . what step be the Government take in that regard ? I thank my hon . friend for the question and welcome he to his place . as a former local government leader he know the huge opportunity there be to build the home our country desperately need . we have make a commitment to build 1 . 5 million home during the duration of this Parliament . that will require make choice to call in planning decision , as we have already do in our first week in office with regard to four specific housing development . thousand of pensioner in my constituency have work hard all their life and be now worried at the prospect of lose their winter fuel payment , upon which they rely . will the right hon . Lady reconsider and reverse her decision ? the increase in the basic state pension mean those constituent be £ 900 well off than they be a year ago , and of course energy bill be low this year than they be last year . but it be important that we ensure that the 800 , 000 people who miss out on pension credit under the previous Conservative Government now get access to that support , because they be the poor pensioner and at the moment they be live in poverty because the previous Government fail to sign they up to pension credit . as Departments be prepare their spending review submission , will the Chancellor and her team consider allow the international development budget to be on the same footing as the research and development budget , and look at over 10 year , so that we can get back to the 0 . 7 % figure ? will she be willing to meet I and a delegation to discuss the benefit of that approach to such an important budget ? the Government ' s spending review be currently under way . all decision on official development assistance spending will be take in the round as part of that process . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend and her colleague to discuss this issue . Sudan ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Foreign Secretary if he will make a statement on the humanitarian and political situation in Sudan . I would like first to welcome the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) to her place . she be a former Africa Minister , so I know she be deeply concerned about these issue . I be grateful for the fact that this urgent question have be grant ; the situation could not be more urgent . last month , I visit South Sudan to assess the situation in Sudan and to meet those who have be force to flee horrendous violence . the scene of suffering and devastation that I hear about from family who have be tear apart and child who be on the brink of starvation have be etch in my memory . we now have confirmation that the senseless war between the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces have bring famine to Sudan . in the Zamzam internally displace people camp in northern Darfur , which host more than half a million people , 100 people be die from starvation every day . we have to be clear that these condition exist across Sudan . we should be discuss a more damning assessment today , but a sustained tactic of deny access to the hard - hit area of the country be make many people and their suffering invisible . the famine face Sudan be almost entirely man - make and a direct consequence of the deliberate effort by both war party to block aid get to those most in need . the war party must remember their obligation under international humanitarian law . access must not be arbitrarily deny and starvation must not be use as a weapon of war . the UK welcome the decision to reopen the Adre border crossing for humanitarian assistance for three month . this move , if conduct in good faith , could save thousand of life . the SAF must act to remove any unnecessary restriction on truck move through Adre , and the RSF must urgently facilitate movement into area under their control . without that , lifesave aid will be block from access those most in need . last month , I announce an additional £ 15 million of vital assistance to Sudan , South Sudan and Chad to support vulnerable people force to flee violence and seek safety . with that announcement , the UK have almost double its ODA to Sudan to £ 97 million this financial year , most of which be vital humanitarian aid . the UK also welcome effort by the US , Saudi Arabia and Switzerland to bring the war party to the negotiating table last month , but we remain deeply concerned that the SAF do not take the opportunity to act in the good interest of the people they claim to represent , and refuse to attend the talk in person . the war party must do everything in their power to ensure that this wholly unjustified war end immediately . we continue to call upon the RSF to implement the commitment make in the Jeddah declaration to protect civilian . we stand ready to support partner in follow up on these talk , include by bus the UK ' s role as penholder on Sudan at the United Nations Security Council . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . yesterday , Parliament spend time on two terrible conflict — that in Ukraine , and that in the middle east — but we must not allow this Parliament to forget about the increasingly dreadful situation in Sudan . I welcome the right hon . Minister for Development to her position . I know that she have just come back from visit South Sudan , and I welcome her clear focus on the situation , which be urgent , with 10 million people have be internally displace , 4 million of they child . two million people have flee as refugee , and half the country ' s population of 47 million now need food aid . three quarter of a million people be starve in a famine that have only be make bad by the recent flooding . I urge the Government to pay urgent attention to the situation . we can not lose momentum , or our focus on resolve the conflict and improve access for humanitarian aid . the UK be the penholder at the United Nations , and with Norway and the United States we form the troika , which can act as an interlocutor with the war party . what progress have there be on initiate a follow - up to last month ' s unsuccessful effort to bring the sudanese armed force to the table ? the US special envoy Tom Perriello have be work hard , try to make progress , but what role be the UK Government play ? it be welcome that the Adre crossing have open , and that there be some improvement in humanitarian access , but the UK have a key role to play in bring donor together for Sudan . what plan do the UK Government have to convene influential regional player , such as the African Union , the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia , give that our extensive , excellent diplomatic network can make such an important difference ? overall , what strategy do the UK Government have to counteract the grow influence in the region of Russia , which be foment conflict both in Sudan and in nearby country such as Libya to gain access to Red sea and Mediterranean port , and to encourage migration pattern such as those that we have see ? I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s commitment to the issue , and for her incredibly important question . she give the figure for those who have be displace ; indeed , Sudan be the world ' s large displacement crisis in absolute term . of course , some of those individual have be displace before . when I be in South Sudan , I talk to those who have previously leave South Sudan because it be so unsafe , go into Sudan , and then be force back to South Sudan . this really be a horrendous crisis that deserve international focus . that be what the new UK Government be determined to provide . of course , we recognise what take place under the previous Government , and we want to ensure that this crisis be give the attention that it deserve , not only through our position as penholder at the UN , which the hon . Lady note , but by continuously urge the war party to come to the table , and by ensure that the voice of civil society be not ignore . it have be particularly important for the UK to ensure that we convene civil society actor . I meet some of they when I be in Addis Ababa in Ethiopia — many of they can not operate in Sudan as it be too dangerous — and they be still seek to ensure that the voice of civil society , and of woman , be listen to . the hon . Lady talk about apply international pressure to partner . that be important , when it come to the positive work that we can do together . when I be in Addis , I meet African Union Commissioner Bankole to talk about what we could do together to ensure that other regional actor be bring in to push forward peace , the ceasefire that be so desperately need , and the humanitarian access that be need . of course , there be also the negative — the possibility of other country become involve in the conflict and worsen it . the UK Government be clear that any measure of engagement with the war party that be not focus on humanitarian access or peace will only prolong this devastating war , which be lead to so much death and destruction . this be one of the world ' s bad conflict and humanitarian disaster , but sadly it receive so little of our attention , so I welcome the urgent question and the Minister ' s response . I praise the effort of the british embassy in exile in Addis . it be clear that we need a long - term strategy to end the fighting and begin a political settlement . what plan do the Minister have to send UK personnel back to Sudan when the time be right , perhaps base in Port Sudan until a return to Khartoum be possible ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . the staff from the UK embassy that be previously in Sudan show the good of UK government ; there be no question about that . they be place in a truly horrendous , terrifying situation at the beginning of the conflict — they be effectively under siege at the beginning of a dreadful war — and I praise they . I be pleased to meet a number of they in Addis Ababa ; they be operate out of Ethiopia , because it be too dangerous for they in Sudan . I know that they would be keen to ensure that we have that presence there , but we need to ensure their safety — and my goodness , that sense of safety be test . again , I praise their bravery . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the shadow Minister on secure this urgent question , and I thank you for grant it , Mr Speaker . as we have hear , this could not be more urgent . More than 25 million people be suffer from acute food insecurity — more than half the population . in one South Darfur health facility , five malnourished child die every day in July , yet their plight , on the whole , have largely be meet with silence from the international community . at the Paris donor meeting in April , the previous Government do not commit to any additional humanitarian assistance ; they just reannounce a previous commitment . will the Minister tell the House what extra support the new Government will provide ? give that the conference raise only half of what be need , the case for even more UK aid be clear . we need to play our part in secure a path to peace in Sudan as a whole . give the UK ' s role as the penholder at the UN , what specific action be be take to prevent the supply of arm by neighbouring country ? we hear the distressing news that a slave market have open outside Khartoum . what action be be take to prevent human trafficking during the conflict ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise those important point . on the UK ' s support , we have double the official development assistance contribution , recognise the severity of this crisis . I announce another £ 15 million of vital assistance on 22 August , bring that up to £ 97 million , which will be focus on where it be possible to operate in Sudan . [ Official Report , 9 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 5wc . ] ( correction ) much of the country be very difficult to access , include for humanitarian body and for those flee to South Sudan and Chad . the hon . member talk about neighbouring country . there be a number of country that we would urge not to engage in destabilising activity ; I mention that point to the shadow Development Minister . any activity that be not focus on humanitarian support or promote peace be prolong the war , worsen the humanitarian situation and create a legacy for the future that will be difficult to deal with . we be see large number of unaccompanied child , for example — a really disturbing situation . we want that message to be hear loud and clear . I wish that this conflict and the result famine have be stop before they start . I be grateful for the Minister ' s commitment . when the International Development Committee take evidence in April , we find that this be a war on woman . could the Minister please tell we what specifically she be do to protect woman from the horrendous rape and sexual abuse that be go on , and what she be do with the Department to gather atrocity prevention datum ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention this area , in which she have great expertise . we be deeply concerned about the escalation of conflict - relate sexual violence in Sudan since the outbreak of the conflict in April 2023 . as she and other in the House will be well aware , there be report of this issue ; for example , 262 rape case be report from April to August . that be likely to be a massive underestimate of the situation on the ground . disturbingly , woman and girl be subject to sexual violence in internally displace person camp ; at checkpoint when travel ; in their own home ; and when try to get firewood or desperately try to get support for their family . there be also report of kidnapping , ransom and sexual exploitation . my hon . Friend ask what the UK be do . we continue to condemn those atrocity against woman and girl . we have call out human right violation , especially conflict - relate sexual violence carry out by the party to the conflict , within the UN Human Rights Council and Security Council , and we be work to ensure that evidence be collect . the fighting in Sudan be have an impact not just on that country but on neighbouring country such as South Sudan , which can not export its natural resource . what action be the Government take to open up channel through which country such as South Sudan can export good in order to feed people in their country ? the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that there be already a humanitarian crisis in South Sudan . I visit the Bentiu refugee camp , which house 100 , 000 people . it be effectively an island of marooned people in a lake of floodwater at the moment . there be already a crisis there . he be absolutely right that economic prospect have go even far backwards follow the crisis . the main oil pipeline have be impact by the conflict in Sudan . we have have discussion with international partner about what can be do to improve the situation . I have discussion with the World Bank when I be in Juba in South Sudan about what can be do on economic reform . there be a role for the Government of South Sudan in ensure economic reform ; I be very clear that reform need to take place , and that we need strong action and election . the impact of the Sudan conflict be be feel in South Sudan , as the right hon . Gentleman say . the Newport Sudanese community come together yesterday in Pill to open their new community centre . they feel that the conflict and this famine of epic proportion still go largely unseen . some be hear horrific story from family and friend . could the Minister reiterate to they that , as the penholder on Sudan at the UN Security Council , we will do all we can to ensure that international attention and action be not too little , too late , and that , crucially , aid get to the right place ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the important point about diaspora community in the UK . I have speak to many people with sudanese heritage in the UK who be deeply concerned about the situation at home . I be yet to meet someone with sudanese heritage who have not be impact somehow — who do not have a close family member who have be kill or subject to violence , or have have to flee or be in food insecurity . I pay tribute to the sudanese community in Newport and across our country . most certainly , their plight be not be forget . I commend the Minister on have make her visit so promptly . the conflict in Ukraine and the middle east get coverage on the news night after night . it seem to I that this conflict ought similarly to constantly feature in our medium . why be that not happen ? be it purely because of the denial of journalistic access ? I be very grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question , which I have think about a lot . how can we elevate this crisis ? one fear that people will look back and ask why more be not do about it , give the huge humanitarian toll — there be the big displacement crisis in the world , and the famine — which the UK Government recognise . some very committed journalist be cover it , and I praise their action . I hope that there can be additional coverage and great international awareness . that be important for the UN and other multilateral organisation as well . this government will do all we can to raise the profile of this crisis within those body . there have now be over 500 day of war in Sudan , and we know that the geopolitical context be very complex to say the least . there have be report from Human Rights Watch of summary execution and torture . will the Government commit to galvanise the international crisis response that be need to hold international partner to account , so that the sudanese people receive the commitment and attention they deserve ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that incredibly important point . we have indeed , as she eloquently spell out , see a really disturbing increase in human right abuse in Sudan . there have be an escalation of violence , with many civilian kill , sexual assault on woman — as we talk about — and the restriction of humanitarian and journalistic access . the UK will ensure that there be continue scrutiny of Sudan at the UN Human Rights Council . the UK be the leader of the core group , alongside Germany , Norway and the United States . we have be seek to use that position as actively as possible to raise this issue . colleague should also be aware that the UK be fund the Centre for Information Resilience , a research body that be gather open - source evidence about the ongoing fighting . that be incredibly important for the long - term accountability of those who be abuse human right so appallingly in Sudan . thank you , Mr Speaker , for provide time for this issue today . I also thank the Minister . this be the grave humanitarian situation on Earth and I be grateful for her remark about evidence gather on universal crime . however , I be a little concerned that I be yet to hear what concrete action be be take to enforce an arm embargo and stop arm from reach the conflict zone . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for be very clear about the magnitude of this appalling conflict and the need to do all we can to prevent it . the UK Government have seek to use every lever we can to put pressure in this area , whether political , diplomatic or humanitarian , and to use every venue we can . to be very clear , I reiterate that the war party and those support they to become engaged in the conflict must cease their action , which be have such a negative impact on the population . for those who be engage to the extent that this be become a proxy situation , every single day they do that they be contribute to the humanitarian crisis . the UK could not be clear in our language . despite Sudan experience one of the most severe humanitarian crisis in the world , the previous Government fail to expand safe route for those in Sudan , even for those who have family here . in the light of the ever - worsen situation on the ground , what step will our new Government take to help those flee the conflict to reunite with love one and find safety in the UK ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention the situation face those who have be force to flee Sudan . the pattern for those flee conflict be quite differentiate . many who be already in humanitarian need or with low resource have be force into Chad , obviously from Darfur . as I mention early , we be also see some be force back into South Sudan . many have move into Egypt , which have see a really significant expansion in its sudanese population . I think all of we , as parliamentarian , will remember what happen at the beginning of the conflict when there be the evacuation . I pay tribute to the civil servant who ensure that the evacuation take place , because it be a very difficult time . of course , we take very seriously our commitment on ensure that refugee be protect in the region . I be very grateful that time have be give for this urgent question . group such as the Zaghawa be face genocide in Sudan . as a result , many young Zaghawan man have flee to Europe and some live in makeshift camp along the french coast . they wish to come to the UK for a particular reason : because Sudan be a former colony of the british empire and they be teach English at school . the like of Tommy Robinson demonise they for be young and male , but it be precisely because they be young man that they be most at risk of be slaughter by the Janjaweed . will the Government look again , because there be a particular historical duty of care towards people from Sudan , and allow safe passage to the Zaghawa who be flee genocide ? we have be very clear that there must not be demonisation of individual from any heritage or background . we be see a situation where a separation be be undertake by some of the war party , so that it be become impossible for father to leave with their child , and for uncle and grandfather to leave . they be be separate , unfortunately , and effectively pressgange into support some of the war party . that be extremely disturbing . we see that previously , but we be see it again intensify . I meet a young boy whose uncle have be subject to that and who escape by the skin of his tooth . we will ensure that we focus on human right , include for young man , for everybody in those situation , but the critical thing will be to ensure that Sudan itself have the ceasefire that be desperately need , and that there be de - escalation and great regional stability . that be what will be important in both the medium and long term . thank you , Mr Speaker , for dedicate time to this crisis . give the challenge of get international aid into Sudan , the humanitarian response be very dependent on local community - lead emergency response route . what measure be the Government take to ensure that funding reach frontline responder ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that point . she have considerable expertise on these issue from before she become a Member of Parliament . we be concerned about the situation of access for humanitarian aid in Sudan . I talk a little about that early , but it be important that we do not see unreasonable impediment put in place . I recognise her point about community support be provide . I meet some representative from the so - call emergency response room . I also meet , as I say , some civil society voice from Sudan who be also engage in that humanitarian effort . it be important that their contribution be recognise . they be not part of the war party ; they be completely politically neutral . for that reason , of course , they be be target themselves . what effort be be make to gather testimony and evidence of the war crime , breach of international humanitarian law and ethnic cleansing that we all know be take place in Sudan at the moment ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise that point . I mention that the UK be support the Centre for Information Resilience , a research body that be gather evidence of what be take place on the ground . for example , funding be be provide for the Sudan witness project , which be investigate attack against civilian and infrastructure . on the specific finding of genocide , I be clear that that be an internationally focused definition , but we be concerned that we be see pattern of violence that bear the hallmark of that kind of development , so we be keep that very closely under review . [ Official Report , 9 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) I thank the Minister for her statement . Sudan have border with seven country , home to around 280 million people . all those country now face the destabilising flow of gun and mercenary . what assessment have the UK Government make of the impact of the civil war on the humanitarian crisis , and not just in Sudan but in neighbouring country ? my hon . friend raise an important point . as I mention , we have already see in South Sudan and other neighbouring country extreme humanitarian need . clearly , the conflict in Sudan be make the situation even bad in many of those nation . I be grateful to those nation that have open their border so that those flee conflict be able to move out of the conflict situation , but clearly that be come at significant cost in situation where there be already considerable humanitarian need . South Sudan , for example , already have the bad maternal mortality in the entire world . it have statistic that place it right at the bottom of the human development index of all country . this be only make the situation bad , I regret to say . I thank the Minister very much for her reassuring word about how to help those in Sudan , but give that some 10 million people be displace there and 25 million be suffer from food insecurity , it be clear that a humanitarian crisis of gigantic proportion be unfold . in particular — and here I declare an interest , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief — 9 , 000 Christians have be kill , 6 million Christians have be displace , and 165 church have be destroy and close . there have be human right violation in the form of rape , kidnapping and looting . Sudan be the eighth bad place in the world to be a Christian . it be clear that much more must be do . may I ask the Minister , very respectfully , what step she be take to work with non - governmental organisation on the ground to get support to the people who need it the most : the vulnerable , the ill , woman and child ? the hon . Gentleman be right , sadly , about the scale of the humanitarian disaster we see unfold and about the human right abuse . he mention religious minority , and also the impact on woman and girl , which be mention early . we be see an extremely disturbing situation in Sudan . we will continue to do all we can to raise the profile of this issue . the humanitarian situation in Sudan be a priority for I as soon as I become the new Development Minister — I be determined that I should be brief on it . it be an enormous crisis , and we in the UK must do all we can to ensure that we play our part politically , diplomatically , economically and in humanitarian term . yesterday I hear from two sudanese doctor who be bear in Sudan but live in my constituency , and who be rightly and understandably very worried indeed . we have hear from the Minister about engagement with the World Bank , the African Union and the United Nations , but many of our european neighbour have colonial tie with this part of Africa , as do we . what specific and direct conversation have the Minister have with european colleague to urge they to do their bit to help resolve the crisis ? the sudanese doctor ’ group have be very important in the UK in raise the profile of these issue , and in try to ensure that information about the situation on the ground be get through and be report in the medium . we will continue to work multilaterally , but also bilaterally . I have discuss these matter with , for example , counterpart from Norway , Germany and a number of other european nation , and also with the current European Commissioner for Development , who will of course be move on with a new commission . we clearly need to work together to try to resolve these matter . child be often on the frontline of conflict , and that certainly apply in Sudan , where a whole generation of child be live a nightmare and face a catastrophe . can the Minister expand on the specific measure be take to protect child , both in term of immediate humanitarian aid and to raise the important issue of child ' s right ? my hon . friend bring considerable expertise to the House , gain before she become a Member of Parliament . the appalling circumstance in which child be find themselves because of this conflict really must be raise up the international agenda . when I be in South Sudan , I meet some child who have escape from Sudan . those child could not smile any more . there be nothing that they could see for their future . it be extremely disturbing . they have lose their parent , and they have see , for example , sibling die of measle or diarrhoea while they be try to escape the conflict . this be a truly horrendous situation . child ' s right must indeed be raise , and we should of course also consider the situation of child in the context of the activity of the war party . again , the UK Government will be call on those party to ensure that they be follow international humanitarian law and , above all , that we have the ceasefire that be so desperately need . Ofsted ( Urgent Question ) to ask the Secretary of State for Education if she will make a statement on propose change to Ofsted reporting . as the Government explain in the write ministerial statement that be lay yesterday , and as be outline in our manifesto , single headline grade will no long be issue by Ofsted when it inspect state - fund school . our landmark reform will drive high and rise standard for child , and will increase transparency for parent . today Ofsted publish the outcome of its Big Listen consultation exercise , the large engagement with parent , child and professional in its history , which , as the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) will know , begin under the last government . the Big Listen contain some difficult message . it be clear that significant change be need , and Ofsted have respond by commit itself to improvement . hold school accountable for child ' s education be vital , but single headline grade be low information for parent and create high stake for school , so this Government be act , make inspection both more powerful and more transparent . for this academic year , parent will continue to see four inspection grade for the exist sub - category , and from September 2025 the introduction of school report card will provide a more complete picture of a school ' s performance . we will develop those over the come month , work closely with parent and school . we want high and rise standard for every child , and we will act decisively when those standard be not be meet . we will continue to intervene when performance be a serious concern . ofsted ' s legal duty to identify school cause concern will remain . they will still be require to notify the Secretary of State of these inspection outcome , and she will retain her legal duty to issue an academy order to local authority - maintain school when that be require . however , we will change the way in which school be support to help they succeed . from early 2025 , we will introduce regional improvement team , which will partner with struggle school to drive improvement quickly and directly . this mark the beginning , not the end , of our journey towards an accountability system that be fit for purpose and will help to break down the barrier to opportunity for every child throughout the country . the system can certainly improve . after the terrible tragedy of Ruth Perry , change be make , and , as the Minister say , Ofsted initiate its wide Big listen consultation . we support that , and I welcome much of what be in Ofsted ' s announcement today , but I fear that the Government have not think through the consequence of their own announcement yesterday . the overall effectiveness assessment be a vital indicator for parent , and it also play a specific role in the statutory framework . can the Minister confirm that Ofsted will still have a legal duty to identify school need " special measure " or " require significant improvement " , that the Department will still intervene , and that this will be base on the same criterion as before , with the use of the same word , " inadequate " , but now in any one of four category ? when will there be clarity for other sector — early year , college , prison and social care ? crucially , what be the implication for intervention if child ' s social care in an area be fail , with all the terrible consequence that that can bring ? there be already a wealth of report card information on school , from pupil progress to attendance . what will actually be new in the report card that the Minister mention ? a rather less discuss aspect of yesterday ' s announcement be the introduction of the ominous - sound regional improvement team to monitor struggle school , rather a good fit be find with an academy trust . apparently , they will be fund by — yes , you guess it — vat on independent school . in respect of school with successive " require improvement " judgment , can the Minister tell we what reason there be to believe that regional improvement team will be more effective in deliver improvement than a strong academy trust ? between 2010 and 2024 , the proportion of school rate less than good come down from about one in three to one in 10 . what worry I be that these change mean less transparency for parent and a step backwards , from a proven school improvement approach with academy trust to a directive top - down approach . I urge the Secretary of State and her Minister to assess the true impact that this will have on young people ' s prospect before it be too late . the shadow Secretary of State be a Minister in the Department for Education , and he know these issue well . he also know that the work we be announce today be about clear up the mess that the previous Government leave . the Big Listen be announce under his government , and his former colleague , the previous Chair of the Education Committee , be persuade of the case for reform of the single - headline grade . labour be a party of high and rise standard for all our child in all our school . reform inspection to enable improvement in our school be urgent . inspection and accountability be crucial tool for achieve well outcome for all our child . we will take no lesson from a party under whose watch one in four child leave primary school without meet the standard expect in math and reading . one in five child be persistently absent from school , and it be not good enough . we be determined to fix it , and the announcement that we have make be the first step on that road . may I thank the Minister for take swift action ? as a former teacher and child ' s lead at a local authority , I know how high - stake and low - information Ofsted judgment have start to become for local family . indeed , have speak to parent in my constituency ahead of my Westminster Hall debate on education for child with special educational need and disability tomorrow , I know that the lack of a focus on inclusive education be a real issue for a lot of parent . can the Minister confirm that when look at a new scorecard , we will make the most of this opportunity to ensure that Ofsted be hold school to account on the breadth of their inclusion in the local area ? my hon . friend put the issue very well . we will consult on the report card system and take the time to ensure that we get it right , but we want to ensure that we have a clear picture for parent by put a clear spotlight on a great range of area of performance , rather than a one - word overall judgment . for example , we want to give parent a well picture of the support that a school be provide for child with special educational need . as part of the process , we will explore how to demonstrate that within the report card system . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . the death of Ruth Perry be a tragedy and underscore the high - stake nature of ofsted inspection . I have witness at first hand how headteacher and teacher in my constituency have suffer under the strain and stress of ofsted inspection , but other have also tell I how helpful they have find they and how brilliant ofsted inspector have be . we Liberal Democrats certainly welcome the move away from one - word judgment , which we have long be call for . at the same time , we believe that a robust and fair inspection and accountability regime be essential to ensure that school be operate at a high standard and be safe , nurturing and inclusive environment in which our child and young people can thrive . although the change be a welcome first step , could we have some reassurance that it will be follow by proper root - and - branch reform ? for too long , Ofsted have be see as an adversary , but it should be see as a helpful friend . can we see the announcement as a first step towards a world where Ofsted be a helpful , respected partner for school ? perhaps the regional improvement team will provide that — I sense that local authority use to do so before they have that function take away from they . finally , Ofsted should be look at a broad , varied and rich curriculum . how will the Minister ' s curriculum review connect with the ofsted change ? I thank the hon . Lady for welcome today ' s change , which be welcome by many people in the sector and across the country , who rely on a strong inspection system that be fair , clear and transparent . I echo her comment about the death of Ruth Perry , which be a tragedy . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to her sister Julia , who have fight so hard over the past year to ensure that lesson be learn . we know that Ofsted have report on its Big Listen today , and copy will be available in the House of Commons Library . it be a very large report . Ofsted have undertake a huge exercise , which show that it be listen . it will take time to see the change implement , but Ofsted be determined to change and , as the hon . Lady say , we be determined to work in partnership with it to deliver the change require . that apply across the board in our education sector , where we want to work in partnership with school and those who be deliver the excellent education that we want to see for every child . the hon . Lady mention the curriculum review . I may get in trouble for the length of response that her question require , but the curriculum review be a key part of reform our education system and ensure that it give a breadth and depth of experience to young people , their teacher and their school . I thank my hon . friend for her statement to the House on the long - await ofsted reform . give the welcome focus on inclusion , SEND and improve training for inspector , can she update the House on how this will support child with SEND in Wolverhampton North East and beyond ? I concur with my hon . friend that this be about ensure we have an inspection system that drive high and rise standard for every child , which include support our aim to see an inclusive school system that deliver the outcome that we want to see for child with special educational need . it be about provide great transparency in our school system and an inspection regime that focus on a whole variety of area where school should be strive for improvement . we know that school work incredibly hard and be do an incredible job for our child , but every school can always do well , and an inspection system that support and drive improvement will be welcome across the board . across Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge , we have some amazing " outstanding " and " good " school . across the country , however , we see school that be fail and in need of intervention . could the Minister set out what she envisage as the trigger mechanism for intervention ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important point , and we will work with Ofsted on develop the new report card system over the next year . we will engage and consult as part of that process , because we want to get it right . he be right to suggest that where there be serious failing in school , we will continue to intervene in the good interest of child , and we will continue to intervene where the Government currently have a legal duty to do so . we will continue to intervene but , through our regional improvement team , we will also look to put improvement support in place for school that be struggle , because no child should be leave in a school that be let they down . school across the country , include in my constituency of Hartlepool , will welcome today ' s judgment . as they start the new term , will my hon . friend join I in thank they for their extraordinary hard work , include on behalf of my child , who start their school term today ? the decision demonstrate that in this government , school have a partner who will work with they to improve every child ' s future . I agree , and I wish my hon . friend ' s child all the good as they start school today . many child across the country be have their first day back at school . I remember my first day at school very well ; I remember it be terrifying and not dissimilar from one ' s first outing at the Dispatch Box . I concur that this Government ' s priority be to drive high and rise standard — not in some of our school and for some of our child , but for every child in every one of our school — and we will work tirelessly to deliver that . the reform that we be announce be a crucial part of ensure that it be deliver . in my career as a teacher , I have the dubious pleasure of be inspect by four different regime . I be afraid to say that Ofsted be the most brutal , the least personal and the least useful of all the regime . at its good , an inspection regime can help to drive up improvement and celebrate what be great about a school . inspection hold up a mirror and make teacher ask themselves what more they can do for the child they care about so much . what lesson be the Department learn from other inspection regime around the world ? the hon . Lady raise an important point , and her experience be obviously valuable to the House for the lesson that we can learn . she be absolutely right to say that a good inspection regime drive improvement and identifie in all school not only those area where they be do well — which should be celebrate — but those where there be room to improve . we will consult on the report card system extensively over the next year . we want to make sure we get this right , and we want to do it in partnership . we will look to see how this be do elsewhere to make sure that we learn from good practice , and we will continue to ensure that this be an inspection system that should be welcome by school , as it help they to identify how they deliver for their child , as she rightly say . I know that that be the priority for every school . I thank the Minister for her statement and for the excellent , practical reform that be be set out . will she join I in thank in advance all the hard - work teacher and support staff across Southampton Itchen , and offer they an assurance that this Government intend to work in real partnership to ensure that every child get the good start in life ? I thank my hon . friend and very much welcome the opportunity to thank all our teacher as they go back to school this week . they will be put in a really hard and rewarding year ahead , and will give the good to the child in their care . I absolutely echo what my hon . Friend say . we be clear from day one in government that we want to work in partnership with the sector . we know that the Government do not deliver education to child : our teacher do ; our school do ; our support staff do ; and the parent who make sure their child get to school do . we support they all in that endeavour , but where we can do more to support they in deliver that , we will . the announcement that we be make be part of that endeavour . when my sister Lee take what be then call she GCE exam in the early 1960 , she be give a specific mark for each exam result . by the time I take mine in the late 1960 , that system have be replace by one of grade , which merge together all sort of different result and be likely to lead to subjectivity and relativism henceforth . could not the simplistic one - word system that be now be replace be replace by a proper mark system , where individual aspect of a school be specifically mark and an overall figure give , which would therefore not be subjective , but would give parent an easy guide as to the performance of the school ? the right hon . Gentleman make a characteristically thoughtful point . as part of our consultation , we will look at how good to deliver our aim , which be to provide great transparency , great clarity and great information for parent , for school and for the staff who be work to drive improvement . as he say , no child would be give a single grade for their overall school performance , which beg the important question of why we have be do that for school . when the previous Conservative Government leave office , education standard be decline , school be crumble , and they claim to have maxe out on their support for child . do the Minister agree that school , parent and pupil deserve well , and that with this Government , they will get it ? [ interruption . ] my hon . friend put it incredibly well , although those on the Opposition Front Bench seem to protest against his appreciation of the reality that school up and down the country have be face , which have be let child down . that be our key focus today . yes , it be about school , it be about an inspection framework , and it be about the organisation , Ofsted , that deliver that , but actually this be about child . it be about ensure the good outcome for every child . if we get this system right and we put education back at the heart of national life again , we will deliver on our pledge to break down the barrier to opportunity for every child , wherever they be in this country . I welcome the announcement by the Government , as do many school and parent in my constituency , who want more information rather than just one - word rating . can I urge the Minister to give parent more power through great detail , while ensure that rating be easy for parent to understand ? the hon . Gentleman have very much set out our aim and intention , and that be why we will consult extensively on this . we have give ourselves till September 2025 to have the report card in place , and we want to ensure that we have input from education expert , parent and child , and that we maximise this opportunity to , as he put it , maximise the information that parent will find useful and the information that school will find useful , to drive the improvement that they want for their child . York Outer be home to many inspirational teacher and I be proud that my wife be one of they , but head tell I that there be a recruitment and retention crisis . do the Minister agree that the end of ofsted headline judgment will improve teacher retention , and can she update the House on the plan to recruit 6 , 500 specialist teacher ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and I wish his wife , and all teacher start their new school term , well . it be an incredibly exciting time . it be a little bit daunt for some , but it be an important opportunity to reset their school life at the beginning of a new year . similarly , this be an opportunity for we to reset our relationship with the sector . in do so , we must ensure that we can recruit the necessary teacher . we must make teach the attractive , respected and admire profession that it should be , to ensure that we meet the pledge to recruit 6 , 500 new teacher . we have already start the work . we have reset the relationship and the tone , we have obviously make progress on the pay review , and we will continue to strive to reach our target to ensure that every school have the teacher it need , and that every child have the teacher they need , especially in the subject that require specialist teaching . I thank the Minister for her response to all the question and wish she well in the role that she now play to make education well for our child . that be what we all wish to see . the Minister will understand the need for parent to easily and simply determine which school well fit the need of their child and family , and that any review of a school must be accessible not only to those with an educational background but to those who be perhaps not familiar with educational terminology . this need to be clear in the reporting . do the Minister also acknowledge that , rather than have teach staff focus on an area that appear to be get a low grade than the rest , and direct resource to improve that one area , the resource and attention must instead go to child and their educational need , which be more varied and complex than ever before ? the hon . Gentleman make a characteristically thoughtful point , and I do not disagree with anything that he say . in fact , the report card system should give a much more holistic picture of school life . a parent know their child , and they know the sort of school environment that will suit they . a report card system will enable the highlighting of area where a school may be do particularly well , and the area where it may need to strive to improve . that will be useful for parent . it will also be useful for school to know where they can improve , and it will be useful in drive high and rise standard for every child . we be absolutely determined to deliver that , and we see this as a key part of ensure that that happen . if I be to pick a single word to describe Ofsted ' s grade system , it would be " inadequate " , so I welcome the Government ' s commitment to review Ofsted ' s review system , and particularly to review its focus on special educational need . will the Minister engage with family with special educational need when develop the new school report card system ? ensure that we meet the need of child with special educational need and their family be a key priority for the Government . we recognise that the system be break and that there be too many family and too many child not get the education that they deserve . we see this as part of the process of reset that relationship and reset the system so that we can have a school system that be inclusive , where that be appropriate , and so that we can have mainstream school that serve the whole community . we will endeavour , as part of wide reform that we be look at , to ensure that we have a special educational need system that meet the need of every child in this country . I thank the Minister for her statement , and for her clarity on the next step to drive improvement in school across the country . many teacher and parent will welcome the news that we will move away from one - word inspection , but intervention be not the same as drive improvement . can the Minister reassure I that , alongside intervention , there will be a plan and support for school so that we see the improvement necessary to give every child the good start in life ? we will continue to intervene in the worst - perform school . where a school would previously have be rate " inadequate " , the Government will still take action . we will issue academy order , if require , in line with legal requirement . inspection report will continue to make it clear to parent if a school be in this situation , and Ofsted will continue to make it clear where a school be cause concern and if intervention be require by law . we will also ensure that , where school need support , they get that support . we will roll out regional improvement team to ensure that , where school be struggle , they get the support they need , through a system that partner they with high - perform school in the area to ensure that school work together for the benefit of their whole community . we see that as a key part of drive the reform that we want to see for every child . I welcome the Minister ' s change to ofste inspection . this holistic approach be genuinely common sense . in the future , will similar measure apply to child ' s service ? we recognise that this be a first step on the journey towards remove single headline grade , which we see as reductive — we have widespread agreement on that — across all educational remit . at this stage , we be implement it in school as a matter of priority , but we will work with Ofsted and the sector over the next year to develop reporting arrangement across a whole range of area for which Ofsted have responsibility . I congratulate the Minister on this rapid work . the Conservatives have 14 year , but Labour Ministers have do it in a matter of week . can I have a commitment that Ofsted ' s focus on attainment , SEND and attendance will be laser - focused ? for the benefit of the House , there be only two more Conservatives Members in the Chamber for this statement on education standard than be stand for the conservative party leadership . my hon . friend be right . we have deliver at pace and hit the ground run when it come to improve our education system . just as every day at school matter , every day in government matter for drive high and rise standard for every child . my hon . friend rightly identify attendance as a key issue , and we share that concern . the previous Government talk a lot about that , but do very little to turn the table . we want to see attendance prioritise , as we know that far too many child be miss far too much school , which be harm not only their educational opportunity but their life chance and the whole school community . we want to send the message loud and clear , in this first week back at school , that every day at school matter and every child should be attend school . the decision to end single - word judgment will be welcome by education professional across Birmingham . I have see in my own household the mental and physical toll that the old system could impose . can the Minister confirm that the new school report card will allow Ofsted to assess SEND inclusion alongside SEND attainment ? yes . we know that the current system be not work for anyone , which be why the change we have outline be so important . we know that we need to spread good practice and drive standard across all of our school , include for child with special educational need , who be a key priority for this Government , and we will consult on the good way to do that . I thank the Minister for her statement . anyone who have visit a school in their constituency before or after an ofsted inspection can not help but know the impact on staff . I welcome this opportunity to reset our relationship with educator and family , because it be so important right now that those young people who be look to become teacher see it as a worthwhile profession in which they will be welcome and appreciate by the Government . I hope this be an opportunity for the Minister to work with the education sector and family to build a report system that be fit for purpose and encourage people to work in the education system . hear , hear . we know that the system have be let down child and family , and that we have a shortage of people who want to be teacher . we need to make sure we have a teaching workforce that can deliver the education that every child deserve . my hon . friend put it incredibly eloquently , and I very much agree that this be about reset our system and reset the Government ' s relationship with family , so that they send their child to school and believe that school be the good place for their child , and with teacher , so that they know they be trust , value and support to deliver what I know they go into teaching to deliver , and so that we encourage more people to become teacher . contract for difference I call Ed Miliband to make a statement on contract for difference . I congratulate you on your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker . with permission , I would like to make a statement about the sixth contract for difference allocation round . it be less than two month since the Government come into office with a mandate to fix the foundation and make Britain a clean energy superpower . the last Government leave this country expose to international fossil fuel market . as a result , every household and business pay the price in the bad cost of living and energy bill crisis in memory ; because of Britain ' s particular exposure , family and business in our country be hit hard than other . the only way to provide this country with the energy security that the british people deserve be through home - grow clean energy that we control . that be the mandate on which this Government be elect , and that be what we will deliver . last year ' s contract for difference auction , under the previous Government , be a fiasco . no offshore wind project be award , which be a disaster for the industry and for our effort to move away from dependence on fossil fuel . in July , when we come into office , I make the decision to expand the budget for this year ' s auction by 50 % to maximise the amount of home - grow clean power we could secure while deliver value for the british people , and today the result be in . I can announce to the House that we have secure a record - break 131 new clean energy project : more project for our country as a whole than any previous auction ; more project in England , more project in Scotland and more project in Wales than any previous auction ; over two and a half time the capacity secure in last year ' s auction ; nearly 10 GW of clean , home - grow power , enough to power the equivalent of 11 million home ; the most successful renewable auction in british history ; and a major step forward in our mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower and to help Britain get off the rollercoaster of volatile global gas market . let I set out the result in detail . first , solar be one of the cheap and most readily deployable energy source at our disposal . we have secure a record 93 solar photovoltaic project , the large number of solar project ever in an auction , unlock 3 . 3 GW of new solar , which be a 20 % increase on our instal capacity . secondly , we have secure almost 1 GW of onshore wind . however , I must report to the House that , thank to the Conservatives ' near total ban on onshore wind , there be just one small onshore wind project in England of 8 MW . their nine - year ban destroy the pipeline of project . that be why this Government lift the onshore wind ban in England as one of their first act . our onshore wind taskforce will now go about the process of work with industry to rebuild the pipeline of project . thirdly , this auction be a success for the emerge technology that will serve our country in the future . float offshore wind offer a huge opportunity in every part of Britain . the last auction secure no float offshore wind . on come to office , I be present with a budget that risk repeat the mistake of the past , so I take the decision to more than double the budget that cover this cutting - edge technology . I can report to the House that today ' s auction have secure a 400 MW float offshore wind project , more than 10 time big than the previous big float offshore wind farm in Britain . at double the price . at a low price . this float offshore wind farm alone be double the size of all of Europe ' s instal float offshore wind capacity . in addition , on tidal , where Britain have huge leadership opportunity , we have secure six new tidal stream project at the low ever price . fourthly , on fix offshore wind , in contrast to the zero GW secure in last year ' s round , we have secure 4 . 9 GW of offshore wind , enough to power the equivalent of 8 million home . that include secure both the large and second large offshore wind project in Europe — Hornsea 3 and Hornsea 4 off the Yorkshire coast . an industry flat on its back because of the mistake of the last Government be back on its foot thank to this Government . I can also report to the House that across the whole auction all these result be secure at price well below the maximum price limit — price that demonstrate that wind and solar be the cheap source of power to build and operate in our country . for the House ' s benefit , that mean a clearing price for offshore wind that be five to seven time low than electricity price drive by gas at the peak of the energy crisis . the success of this round do not just offer great energy security for the british people ; it also offer the possibility of good job throughout Britain . but that will not happen without action by Government , because we know that too often in the past renewable energy produce in Britain have not create enough good job in Britain . with great British Energy and our national wealth fund , we will invest to make sure our clean power mission produce job in every corner of the United Kingdom . this Government have be in office for less than two month . in that time , we have lift the onshore wind ban , consent more nationally significant solar capacity in one week than the last Government do in 14 year , and now deliver the most successful renewable auction in the history of the country . and on Thursday we will debate the Second reading of the great british Energy Bill . this be a Government in a hurry to deliver our mission : energy security , low bill , good job and tackle the climate crisis . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for the timely advance sight of his statement . I would like to put on record that member on the opposition Benches welcome the success of the contract for difference allocation round 6 . the Secretary of State be right to be proud of that achievement by the Government . it be to be celebrate that we , as a country , be create an extra 131 clean energy project that include 5 GW of offshore wind farm and 3 mw of float wind . the Secretary of State will be grateful to the previous Government for set up the detail of auction round 6 last November . the previous Secretary of State recognise the problem of AR5 and the price set for offshore wind — a price that be set before a round of inflation that make the CFD strike price cap too low for the producer . by the way , this be not just a UK problem ; it affect other project for offshore wind around the world . increase the strike price by around 60 % to the current ar6 price of £ 73 have be crucial to secure the current success . of course , in addition , the previous Government have many other success . in 2010 , just 7 % of our energy need be supply by renewable . today it be nearly 50 % . this have come from many initiative , not least bring in the contract for difference auction in 2014 and make the auction process an annual event — an initiative that be learn from AR5 problem . it would not be fair to ignore the contribution by the new Secretary of State . as he say , he have increase the pot for this year ' s auction by 50 % . while that be welcome — frankly , who would not welcome more renewable energy — that do not tackle our energy issue . at the same time as increase renewable energy production , the Government be decrease UK gas production . the UK need reliability of supply of energy , but we all know we can not predict with any certainty when the wind will blow and the sun will shine . that be why we need baseload , dispatchable energy that can supply the energy need of our home and economy . we recognise the importance of invest in renewable to deliver clean energy , and the 9 . 6 GW announce today be a brilliant step in the right direction , but give these success , and his self - declare success today , why do the Secretary of State plan to saddle the country with billion in debt to fund Great british Energy ? in previous month , he may have answer that question by say that the purpose of GB Energy be to cut energy bill by £ 300 . however , we note that his promise to cut energy bill seem to have go missing , much like the winter fuel payment of 10 million pensioner . despite the Secretary of State ' s pledge , and that of many hon . member on the Government Benches , he will be aware that energy bill be in fact go up . can he confirm when bill will fall , and by how much ? pensioner be not the only one be impact by this Government ' s ideological energy target . as I have already mention , the Secretary of State ban new oil and gas , which will cost 200 , 000 oil and gas worker their job . research conduct by the industry predict that that move will see tax revenue from that industry fall by £ 13 billion by 2030 . the opposition welcome the Secretary of State ' s ambition to make sure that the job create by the transition be locate in Britain , but , at this stage , the majority of job in the solar and wind sector be locate in China . what step be he , as the current Secretary of State , take to ensure all the job create through ar6 be locate in Britain ? he have already make a bit of a habit of ride roughshod over the concern of local community , approve development without regard to the concern of local community . these decision will see some of Britain ' s green belt and good agricultural land develop . will the Secretary of State confirm what share of today ' s investment will take place on the green belt ? what protection be he put in to protect the green belt ? the Secretary of State have speak at length about the need to overcome challenge face the grid . in Government , we deliver a 500 % increase in the amount of renewable energy connect to the grid , but we recognise that so much more need to be do . what step be the Secretary of State take to support this further increase ? have he investigate undergrounde ? what plan do he have to protect the countryside from more pylon ? I note that the Secretary of State today recommit to decarbonise the grid by 2030 . we have previously warn he of the risk of be over - ambitious , which include leave family face the cost . it be not only the opposition who have warn he of that — Chris Stark , his newly appoint head of mission control , once describe the 2030 target as " over - ambitious " . will the Secretary of State please share exactly what his head of mission control believe to be over - ambitious about a 2030 decarbonisation target ? his head of mission control also warn that it be entirely fair that people be concerned about the cost of decarbonise by 2030 . will the Secretary of State confirm that neither taxpayer nor bill payer will be leave with the cost of the 2030 target ? will he tell the House when we will see a proper , comprehensive estimate for the full system cost of his decarbonisation plan for 2030 ? in conclusion , the opposition welcome the fact that the Secretary of State have build on our success in boost renewable energy . however , we hold serious concern about what this round will mean for Britain ' s green space and whether , give the increase cost of ar6 , his commitment remain to cut bill by £ 300 . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his elevation since the election . I look forward to our exchange in this House . I say he to gently that the crucial first phase of Opposition , in my experience , be have a bit of humility to admit where they have get thing wrong . I do not deny that some of the thing that the previous Government do be right , but quite a lot of what they do be wrong — for example , the nine - year ban on the cheap , clean form of power , the blocking of solar project across the country and the crashing of the offshore wind market , which lead to the bad energy bill crisis in generation . that be their legacy , and at some point some of the leadership candidate will have to face up to that . let I deal with the hon . member ' s specific point . if I may say so respectfully , I feel like he answer some of his own question . he draw attention to the fact that energy bill be rise from 1 October . he be right about that , and that be deeply regrettable . why be that happen ? because we be expose to international gas market . this be about power that we do not control . every solar panel that we do not put up , every onshore wind turbine that we do not erect , and every piece of grid that we do not build leave we more exposed . the conservative party be in a dilemma on this , because it be face both way , but it have to face up to that fact . of course we will have a proper and orderly transition in the North sea , keep exist field open for their lifetime and have a just transition for the workforce , but the idea that the Conservative party and some of its erstwhile friend be cling to — that fossil fuel will get we out of this — be completely belie by all the fact and the crisis that we go through . the shadow Minister say — and I agree with he — that we need to have job in this country . he say it as if he find it hard to remember who have be in power for the past 14 year . it be terrible , he say , that everything be be produce elsewhere . he be right . Germany have almost twice as many renewable energy job per capita as the UK . Sweden have almost three time as many , but , most interestingly , Denmark , with its publicly own energy company , Ø rste , have almost four time as many . the hon . Gentleman ask about great british Energy . we will debate that matter on Thursday , but one reason why we go to the electorate on this point and be endorse on it be that , unless we have a publicly own national champion , all the evidence be that the job will go elsewhere . that be part of have a basic industrial policy . the hon . member talk about solar energy , but , again , he have to make up his mind about where he be on this . he say that he agree that we need clean energy in this country , and that we have to get off the international gas market , but the problem be that the Conservatives duck every difficult decision . then he ask about undergrounding . the Conservatives be in power for 14 year , so they have plenty of time to do the undergrounding of all the cabling . why do they not do that ? it be because they know that it be multiple time more expensive . now they come along , less than two month after the general election , and say that it be time for some undergrounding of the grid . for goodness ' sake ! I have experience of be Leader of the Opposition . perhaps it be time for the Conservatives to have some private tutorial on how to be in opposition . it be great to see my right hon . friend in such ebullient spirit . I have to say that his enthusiasm can only be match by that of the industry , which today have roundly welcome the decision that he take back in July to increase the size of this auction . that demonstrate that , if we have a Government who be consistent , positive and ambitious , the industry will respond and will back their plan . can my right hon . Friend assure the House that the great start that he have make will be continue with a consistent plan under this government , so that business can invest for the long term , know that the Government will always back they ? my hon . friend make a typically eloquent point . this be about a partnership with private industry . the truth be that much of the investment that we need for the clean power mission will come from the private sector , and I suspect that there be cross - party agreement on that . we on the Government Benches have a difference with the opposition , though , because we believe that a lot of that come from break down the barrier to planning and grid infrastructure , which be a massive challenge for supply chain and skill . there be also a role for what we call catalytic public investment , lever in extra private investment . the other point that my hon . friend make be absolutely right . there be huge enthusiasm in the private sector and industry more generally for this sense of mission for the country . we want this mission to involve every business that have an interest in this area , and I believe that we can achieve that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we Liberal Democrats very much welcome the result of this round . it be a significant improvement on last year , when the previous Conservative Government completely fail , with zero bid from the onshore wind developer . the result show that the CfD programme be back on track . they demonstrate the power of industry and Government work together to identify a fix problem , so that we can widen the level of private sector investment we bring in , which be require for a clean power system transition . Britain ' s unique geography , with its abundance of natural resource , be an asset . we must harness the wind and the world ' s large tide . it be hugely encouraging that a record - break amount of solar capacity have be procure . whatever the Conservatives be say now about their record in government , solar target be repeatedly miss , and this round be a welcome change . unlike the Conservative Government , who , as have be point out , leave we at the whim of the global oil and gas market , this Government be make choice that will increase our energy independence and low energy bill for our consumer . future allocation round , especially in the next few year , must continue to deliver increase quantity of renewable . that can be achieve by set ambitious budget and bring forward incremental reform of the CfD regime . can the Secretary of State assure I that this round be not just a one - off and that we will increase the pace of the CfD allocation round ? I thank the hon . Lady for her support and the warm tone that she use . she be right that we face a big challenge as a country to get move on the offshore wind Bill , the onshore wind Bill , solar on rooftop and ground - mount solar . the truth be that CfD auction have serve we well and continue to do so . we inherit this auction halfway through the round , and we increase the budget substantially to make sure that it be a success . but the right thing for we to do — I think this be the main point that she be make — be to talk to industry about how we can make sure that future round be a success . I be very interested in how we can have a line of sight for industry , so that it can have the industrial certainty to plan ahead . the annual auction round be serve we well , but we need to work with industry to make sure that we land the clean power that we need and get the job here too . the Secretary of State be right to point out that the previous Government preside over the fail fifth auction round for the offshore wind sector . it be devastating . I congratulate he on achieve success for this important industry , but part of the measure of that success will be the wide industrial benefit , include good job . what action will he take to make sure that coastal community such as mine see those job , as well as training and manufacturing ? my hon . friend speak with great experience — from both inside and outside this House — and I welcome her expertise on these issue . she be absolutely right that we have to face up to the fact that we be in a global race for these job . investor be try to decide whether to locate their blade factory and other investment in the UK or elsewhere . that be why we go into the election with a range of measure , include Great British Energy , the national wealth fund and the british job bonus . all be design to achieve the re - industrialisation that my hon . friend be talk about . what consideration have the Secretary of State give to proposal for an interconnector from north Africa to the UK , bring reliable solar and wind power at time when the wind be not blow here and the sun be not shine ? I shall address this question at a more general level , for reason the right hon . Gentleman might understand . I think we should be look at all proposal that can maximise energy security . he be talk about the Xlinks proposal . I be obviously aware of that proposal , and know that we need to look at it in the broad way . my view have always be that we need every source of power available , which be why I embrace nuclear , onshore wind , offshore wind , solar , tidal , carbon capture and storage — [ interruption . ] and absolutely , as the right hon . Gentleman say from a sedentary position , oil and gas also have a crucial role in the transition . my right hon . friend be correct that clean energy be by far the cheap way to power the UK , as confirm by industry body today in welcome his announcement , but there will be intense international competition for investment . how do he foresee ensure that we have the competitive advantage in attract that investment for year to come ? again , my hon . friend speak with great expertise . part of it be about be have a Government who be commit to a proper industrial strategy and have the lever to make that strategy happen . there be an interesting divide between the Opposition , when they be in government , and we . although , of course , America be a different - sized country from we , we see the Inflation Reduction Act as offer real lesson to we about how we can lever in private investment . we will not be able to do it on the scale of that Act , but these intervention can make a difference . there be also this crucial point : we care where the manufacturing happen , and we be determined to make sure that it happen in the UK . will the Secretary of State , who be obsess with renewable energy , actually be honest with the british people ? the truth be that the offshore wind turbine bid today be some 20 % above current price . the float offshore wind bid be some three time the current price . his Department say that this require subsidy of some £ 1 . 5 billion a year . that be before the extra transmission cost , before constraint payment , before compensation payment for blight my constituent ' countryside , and before the cost of back - up when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine . why will he not be honest and tell the truth : that renewable energy be more expensive , not cheap ? I be interested by the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention , because his manifesto be basically high bill and to make people poor . we do not need to look into the crystal ball ; we just need to look at the record . the truth be that the cost of live crisis — the energy bill crisis — cast a long shadow in this country . it be cause not by a dependence on renewable but by our exposure to fossil fuel . he just need to understand this basic point : whether fossil fuel be produce in this country or internationally , they be sell on the international market , and that be why the british people pay the price and the Government fork out £ 94 billion . the only way to get off the rollercoaster of international gas market and take back control be to become a clean energy superpower . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . this allocation round be testament to the continued success of the contract for difference scheme . as we be now on course to produce more renewable energy than ever and we need to get that power to consumer , do he agree that we need the same political and financial commitment to the development of transmission infrastructure as we do to renewable ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . we need to be honest about this : we face what we can only describe as a crisis with our grid situation , because we have people want to connect to cheap , clean renewable and be offer date in the 2030 — often late in the 2030 . we have industrial investment that we need to happen , for which date in the 2030 be offer . grid reform and , as part of that , plan reform be absolutely crucial for this Government and for any Government who be serious about this . I be afraid to say that the legacy of the last Government be disastrous when it come to the grid . we will build the grid , and I look forward to support from all part of the House from those who want to tackle fuel poverty and want low energy bill . fair play to the new Secretary of State : 5 . 3 GW of offshore wind be a great achievement , especially compare with the flat zero achieve by the Tories in auction round 5 . it unlock the vital Inch Cape array off my Angus constituency coast , and support job in Montrose , as well as in Moray West , and there be also the game - change Green Volt float array off the north - east coast of Scotland . he highlight 1 GW of onshore wind , 8 MW of which be come from England . will he tell the House where the rest of that onshore energy be come from ? his target be 60 GW by 2030 . how will he achieve that 9 GW a year from now until 2030 ? I welcome the first part of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , and even the second part . the only way this will work be if , whatever our difference — and we have large difference — we work on this task with every Government across the United Kingdom , whatever kind of Government that be . Gillian Martin , the Cabinet Secretary in Scotland , and I have have many conversation — probably more in a couple of month than be have in many year under the previous Government . that deliberate example of " country first , party second " have be set by the Prime Minister . we want to work with government across the UK to get the renewable revolution that we need if we be to make Britain a clean energy superpower . it be a pleasure to welcome my right hon . friend to his place , and to see he continue to champion this really important change , which our constituent up and down the country have be cry out for . one of the key issue we find when we go into people ' s home be fuel poverty ; it be real . constituent talk about not be able to heat their home — that be the reality for many of my Vauxhall and Camberwell Green constituent — so they will welcome this announcement , which will mean cheap bill and clean energy . do he agree that we need to get on with this as quickly as possible ? give that bill be to increase from 1 October , resident want action from this Government at a fast pace , so that they can see their energy bill come down . my hon . friend be 100 % right , and she put it incredibly well . it be hard for government of all stripe to admit this truth , but when the 1 October price cap be announce , these matter be not within the previous Government ' s control , and would not have be within ours , because of our exposure . these price be set internationally . when Putin or the petro - state make decision , they rebound on my hon . friend ' s constituent , and the only solution be our clean energy superpower mission . the truth be that it will take time , and it will be hard for she and my constituent , and the constituent of those across the House , but the answer have to be to go as fast as possible , because that be what get we energy security and low bill . I warmly congratulate the Secretary of State on his appointment ; he be the perfect example of a political renewable . as politician , we all have a great deal to contribute to onshore wind . more seriously , do the Secretary of State share my concern that the Guardian last year and the Daily Telegraph this year both draw attention to the chinese exploitation of Uyghur slave labour in the manufacture of so many solar panel ? other country have be ban their import . how do he propose to deal with the matter , because I be sure that he share my concern that we should not profit on the back of that sort of disgraceful exploitation ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his kind word . he raise an incredibly serious and important issue . when I come into Government , I ask for discussion across Government on this . control be in place , to be fair to the last government , and as part of the ongoing solar taskforce , these issue be be look at , but we need to kick the tyre on this , to make sure that the proper control be in place . my Department be very happy to have discussion with he and other interested party on those question . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and his tireless campaign in favour of unleash our renewable energy potential . as he know , Cornwall be ready , willing and able to play a full part in the renewable energy transition . can he outline his plan to support small , co - operative , community energy project ? when it come to those , once again , Cornwall stand ready to act . my hon . Friend ask a very important question , which give I a chance to advertise the Second reading of the great british Energy Bill on Thursday . all be welcome — standing room only ! as part of our plan for great British Energy , we allocate £ 3 billion of the £ 8 . 3 billion that we set out in the election for what we call the local power plan to do what other country such as Denmark and Germany do as a matter of course : unleash local renewable , with local community , council , community group and co - op be part of that . that be important , because it be a way to tackle fuel poverty and generate income for local community . it be also important as a way of win consent from local people . I look forward to my hon . friend and other make a contribution on this question in that debate and other . if , as the Secretary of State say , he want to offer a line of sight for industry , he should look more closely at the opportunity that come from the development of tidal stream , particularly through the creation of a supply chain from the ground up ; that be always easy than recover one that have already go overseas . but that line of sight have to go in both direction , which be why developer in tidal stream energy be ask the Government to set a 1 GW deployment target . will he listen to those representation now , and act on they ? when I come into office and examine the issue around pot 2 , which cover tidal , I be very keen to make sure that we increase the tidal minimum , which we do by 50 % . these be important discussion to continue . there be a dilemma here , as the right hon . Gentleman will know , which be that tidal remain relatively expensive , but the point of the tidal developer be that many technology remain expensive until they be deploy at scale . these be hard question , because they be about value for money and how much we invest in tidal , but my Department need to have those important discussion . I congratulate the Secretary of State and his Department on their excellent work . give all that we have hear from the shadow Minister today , do my right hon . friend agree that this Government ' s record success show that the main block to the sprint to renewable be the conservative party ? my hon . friend make an important point about the legacy of the last Government . to widen her point , I would say to member across the House — we need to be candid that this be hard for we as constituency MPs — that there be a need to connect debate in this House about fuel poverty and energy bill and the decision that be be make in our area . candidly , unless we build the grid , solar and onshore wind , we will never get off the rollercoaster of international gas market . all of we face a choice . we need a public debate about this , because if we be to tackle fuel poverty and do the thing that I describe , building be require , and we need to make that happen . I gently say to the Secretary of State that he promise at the general election to bring energy bill down by £ 300 . they be now go up by 10 % in October . when will my constituent see the reduction that those in his party promise — or do they not mean it ? I think that tonight , the hon . Gentleman will think that that be not a very smart point to make . week after we come into office , the price cap go up . I have explain why the price cap go up — because of our reliance on international gas market . the decision that he have to make be this : do he support our mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower in order to bring bill down , or do he not ? there be one notable absence from the allocation round result today , which be Berwick Bank wind farm . locate in the North sea , Berwick Bank have the potential to deliver up to 4 . 1 GW of clean electricity , and to lead to further investment in the supply chain and manufacturing . the port of Leith in my constituency be a prime location for the project , but we be still wait to hear about the consent . can the Secretary of State confirm that he will push the Scottish Government to speed up their section 36 consent process , so that Berwick Bank can come forward in the next allocation round and we can get on with deliver a sprint to clean energy ? I be glad that my hon . friend have raise that point . we face planning decision and question at a policy level , if I can put it that way , right across the United Kingdom , include in Scotland and in England . we will work with the Scottish Government and other to make sure that we have a planning system that be fit for purpose , and that can build the clean energy that we need . this Secretary of State be live in a completely different world from my constituent , because they be not ask for this on the doorstep at all . by the way , he be quite happy to spend £ 11 . 6 billion on climate aid abroad and £ 8 . 5 billion on GB Energy , yet rob our pensioner of £ 300 at the same time . but I will give he the benefit of the doubt . when will my pensioner in Ashfield receive significant discount on their fuel bill , and of how much ? I think that the hon . Gentleman ' s party support a publicly own energy company , but I may be wrong about that . I can absolutely say that this be the way to deliver low bill for his constituent . [ hon . member : " when ? " ] member can shout all they like — I know that this be hard for the hon . gentleman — but the reality they must face be this : do he believe that a continue reliance on fossil fuel , and this country say no to renewable , which I think be their position , will give we energy security ? the truth be it will not . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman say that he agree with I ; well , I look forward to he support our clean energy superpower mission . I welcome this phenomenal , record - break achievement from the Secretary of State , which represent a significant milestone towards clean power by 2030 . let we see more project in Burnley . do he agree that the good way to protect my constituent ' energy bill from price shock , and the patriotic thing to do , be to ensure our nation ' s energy security through home - grow clean power ? that will lower energy bill and give tyrant like Putin a bloody nose at the same time . I agree 100 % . the notion that our exposure to fossil fuel as a country give we security be belie by what have happen over the last few year ; as the Prime Minister often say , it mean that Putin ' s boot be on our throat . my hon . friend talk about this patriotic mission , and he be completely right . other party in this House have a decision to make on Thursday : will they support the great british Energy Bill ? we have public ownership of our energy system in Britain — foreign public ownership , by state - own company from abroad . we welcome that investment , but we also want british public ownership . I very much hope that other party will learn the lesson of their election defeat and support our Bill on Thursday . to be helpful to member , I gently point out that it be important that they be here for the start of a statement if they wish to be call to ask a question . I will be very kind today . I call Claire Young . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . the late allocation round be good news and should be welcome , especially after the fiasco of the last round . it be vital that Britain invest in our sustainable green energy production , so that we can guarantee our energy security and lead the world as a green powerhouse . however , the only way that we can achieve that be if we also push ahead with energy storage and ensure that we boost our capacity to retain the energy that be generate , so what step be the Department take to accelerate the roll - out of new storage solution , include green hydrogen ? the hon . Lady , whom I welcome to her place , make an important point . we often get question about what to do in an intermittent system . we need different form of both dispatchable power and energy storage . one project that my Department be work on — continue some of the work of the previous Government — be long - duration energy storage and battery technology . personally , I think that the system continue to underestimate the potential role of battery and long - duration storage , and we will say more about that in the month ahead . the Conservatives continue to oppose our publicly own clean power company despite widespread public support for it , include in my constituency . do the Secretary of State recognise the absurdity of the Opposition ' s argument ? they be quite happy for public ownership of energy in this country , as long it be by foreign government , not UK citizen . my hon . friend , who have great expertise on these issue , make an important point . we welcome the success of Ø rste in today ' s allocation round for the Hornsea wind farm . it be great for danish taxpayer that they will get some benefit from it , and it be great for Britain that we will get the investment , but as the Prime Minister often ask , why not Britain as well ? why should we not invest in clean energy ? why should our taxpayer not benefit from this ? why should we not create job in this country as well as accelerate clean power ? it seem a simple and logical proposition to I . the Secretary of State will know from his recent visit to Telford that business right across the country , include in my constituency , want to partner with the Government on this agenda . will this statement and future announcement mean that those private sector business , which want to put their skill and money into this agenda , and take risk on behalf of the Government and the country to make we a clean energy superpower , have the Secretary of State ' s backing ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I very much enjoy my visit to Telford , where I speak with local business . it be easy to think about these thing in very macro term , of how many gigawatt and so on — the kind of thing I like talk about — but he be right that this be as much , if not more , about all the job that we can create in the supply chain . People in this country want hope and change , and this will deliver it . I welcome the auction increase solar capacity . there be great project in my constituency , fund via that scheme , such as Hessay solar . will the Secretary of State visit sunny York to see the site once it be complete , and do he share my conviction that solar will be critical in the energy mix if we be to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and gas ? I very much welcome my hon . friend ' s embrace of solar as part of the energy mix . it be really important to say this : we need more rooftop solar . lot of people in this House ask , " why don ' t we do more on rooftop ? " , and I agree with they . there be also an important role for ground - mount solar , however . I very much look forward to come to York at some point to see the project he talk about . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , for which I thank he . it be incredibly exciting and mark a complete change from conservative party policy . the Celtic sea , off the coast of my constituency , have the unique condition of deep water and strong wind , offer we the opportunity to be a global leader in the new technology of float offshore wind . however , those unique condition require a unique approach from Government . as we look forward to allocation round 7 , will the Secretary of State join I in work to refresh the approach in the auction so that more support go towards flow project in autumn 2025 ? my hon . friend be a great champion of float wind in the Celtic sea . he be right : we be proud of the 400 MW project in this round . we need to look — include in the auction round , through GB Energy and in other way — at how we can build on our advantage in crucial float wind technology , take the opportunity that they provide , and have the industrial capacity . I look forward to discussion with he and other colleague on how we make that happen . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 25 July , the main estimate be lay before the House and pass without debate or vote . on 29 July , the Chancellor come to the House and make a statement about the public finance , and lay a further document call " fix the Foundations " , which show a wildly different picture of the public finance from that which have be present to we just one work day before . naturally , that raise concern in the House . I and a number of member question the Chancellor of Exchequer about it at the time . the fact that she be evasive in the debate and , frankly , look rattle raise further concern . today , a letter from the Cabinet Secretary to my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor have be leak . it explain that official know at the time that the estimate lay by the Chancellor be incorrect . I also have a letter from the Office for Budget Responsibility in response to a freedom of information request that I make prior to the recess . it explain that the OBR be show the content of that document two day before the estimate be lay before the House . indeed , the OBR be give the " fix the Foundations " document in order to fact - check it on the day that the estimate be lay before the House of Commons . that raise a number of issue for the House , but the one that I be most concerned about be whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer have knowingly mislead the House of Commons on the state of the public finance and her knowledge at the time . knowingly mislead the House be a breach of the ministerial code , and I want your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , on what the appropriate course of action might be for the House . if we can not rely on the financial information lay before we , but trust that it be accurate and wave it through , we be in a very difficult place indeed . I have notify the Chancellor of the Exchequer of my intention to raise this point of order . obviously , once an independent adviser on the ministerial code be appoint , I can make representation to they , but in the meantime we be face with a situation where either the estimate or the " fix the Foundations " document be knowingly wrong . in either case , the House may have be significantly mislead , and I would be interested to hear your guidance on what we can do about it , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order and for advance notice of it . he indicate that he have inform the Chancellor of his intention to make the point of order , which of course be the correct thing to do . there be two separate point here . the first be one of privilege . he should write to the Speaker to make the point that he be concerned that the Chancellor may have mislead the House . the second be about the accuracy of the estimate . that be not a matter for the Speaker , but it may be something that the right hon . Gentleman choose to raise with the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee once they be elect next week . passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill consider in Committee [ Caroline Nokes in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee they should not address the Chair as Madam Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . " Madam Chair " , " Chair " and " Madam Chairman " be also acceptable . clause 1 - prohibition on franchise extension and new franchise I beg to move amendment 18 , page 1 , line 12 , at end insert — " 25B Report on impact of prohibition on franchise extension and new franchise the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament — ( a ) within six month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , a report on the anticipated impact of the prohibition on franchise extension and new franchise under section 25a ; and ( b ) after a period of five year have elapse after the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , a report outline the actual impact of the prohibition on franchise extension and new franchise under section 25a . " with this it will be convenient to consider : clause stand part . amendment 19 , in clause 2 , page 2 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 1aa ) before make a direct award of a public service contract to a public sector company under subsection ( 1A ) , the relevant franchising authority must provide information to the Office of Rail and Road on the public sector company ' s ability to become responsible for the provision of the relevant passenger railway service . ( 1ab ) the information provide under subsection ( 1aa ) must include an overview and analysis of the capacity of the public sector company to provide the relevant service while maintain or improve exist service provision . ( 1AC ) follow the receipt of the information provide under subsection ( 1aa ) , the Office of Rail and Road must publish an opinion on whether it be reasonably practicable for the public sector company to provide , or secure the provision of , the relevant passenger railway service . " amendment 13 , page 2 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 1ba ) every contract make in accordance with subsection ( 1A ) shall place a duty on the public sector company to encourage and invest in innovation across all aspect of its operation , include but not limit to — ( a ) operational efficiency ; ( b ) fare and ticketing ; ( c ) station and onboard service ; ( d ) passenger information ; and ( e ) digital transformation . " Amendment 14 , page 2 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 1ba ) every contract make in accordance with subsection ( 1A ) shall place a duty on the public sector company to consider the need of — ( a ) passenger ; ( b ) resident of rural area ; ( c ) resident of area underserve by the rail network ; and ( d ) the wide rail network when consider make change to exist service level . " Amendment 1 , page 2 , line 22 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . amendment 6 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30za Impact on provision of roll stock ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , lie before Parliament a report on the impact of the awarding of public service contract to public sector company under section 30 ( 1A ) on the provision of roll stock by roll stock leasing company . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must consult with other franchising authority before finalise a report under subsection ( 1 ) . " amendment 7 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30za Impact on procurement ( 1 ) within six month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , the Secretary of State shall publish detail of the Government ' s propose approach to procurement once passenger rail service be provide by public sector company under public service contract award under section 30 ( 1A ) and the impact of the awarding of such contract to public sector company on procurement process . ( 2 ) any publication relate to the Government ' s propose approach to procurement under subsection ( 1 ) should include detail of the approach towards — ( a ) technological development ; ( b ) the management of demand and supply ; ( c ) the supply chain ; ( d ) future sectoral planning . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to publish detail of the Government ' s propose approach to procurement and the impact of the Bill on procurement process . amendment 8 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30za independent financial monitoring of public sector company ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , instruct an independent body to conduct monitoring of the financial management of any public sector company with whom a direct award of a public service contract be make under section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , " monitor of the financial management " include the auditing of account , the review of spend efficiency , and the making of recommendation to improve cost - effectiveness . " amendment 9 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30ZB Report on cost of contract with public sector company ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , instruct an independent body to report on the total cost to the Government of contract award in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 2 ) the first report under this section must be lay before Parliament within twelve month of the first award of a public sector contract in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) , with subsequent report to be lay annually . ( 3 ) any report publish under this section must include consideration of any liability previously hold by franchise which be now public sector liability . " Amendment 10 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30zc annual reporting of performance of publicly - own train operating company ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament an annual report on the performance of public sector company to whom public service contract be make under section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 2 ) an annual report publish under subsection ( 1 ) shall include detail of a company ' s — ( a ) financial performance ; ( b ) revenue growth ; ( c ) cost control ; ( d ) innovation ; ( e ) service quality metric ; ( f ) customer satisfaction metric ; and ( g ) value for money . ( 3 ) the first annual report under this section must be lay before Parliament within twelve month of the first award of a public sector contract in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . " amendment 11 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30ZD performance - base assessment of publicly - own train operating company ( 1 ) public sector company with whom public service contract be make in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) be to be subject to performance - base assessment in relation to their management of the relevant passenger railway service . ( 2 ) performance - base assessment of public sector company under subsection ( 1 ) be to be conduct by an independent body instruct by the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) in conduct a performance - base assessment the independent body must assess the public sector company against publish target in relation to — ( a ) the punctuality of service ; ( b ) customer satisfaction ; ( c ) revenue and passenger growth ; and ( d ) operational efficiency . ( 4 ) every contract make in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) must place duty on relevant public sector company — ( a ) to prepare performance improvement plan where publish target be assess under this section as not be meet ; ( b ) to place limitation on the remuneration of senior manager while a performance improvement plan be in force . " Amendment 12 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30ze Impact on performance and efficiency of the UK rail network ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within five year of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , instruct an independent body to conduct a review of the impact of the Act on the performance and efficiency of the UK rail network . ( 2 ) a report on the finding of the review must be lay before Parliament . " amendment 15 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30zf impact on open access operator the Secretary of State must , within twelve month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , lie before Parliament a report on the impact of the awarding of public service contract to public sector company under subsection 30 ( 1A ) on open access operator in the UK . " Amendment 16 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30ZG Impact on exemption of passenger service ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within twelve month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , lie before Parliament a report on the impact of section 25a and 30 , as amend by the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , on the exemption of passenger service under section 24 . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must include whether the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 — ( a ) have make , or be expect to make , it more or less likely for an application for an exemption to be make to an appropriate designating authority ; ( b ) have make , or be expect to make , it more or less likely for an application for an exemption to be grant by an appropriate designating authority ; ( c ) have make , or be expect to make , any difference to the basis on which decision as to the granting or refusing of application for exemption will be make by the appropriate designating authority . " Amendment 17 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30ZH Independent body to advise on pay and term and condition of employment for employee of public sector company ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , establish an independent body with responsibility for — ( a ) provide advice to Government on the — ( i ) remuneration , and ( ii ) term and condition of employment of employee of the public sector company provide passenger railway service under a contract award in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) ; ( b ) advise the Government on value for money during the negotiation of the term and condition of employment of employee of the public sector company provide passenger railway service under a contract award in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) ; and ( c ) prepare an annual report to be lay before Parliament by the Secretary of State on the term and condition of employment of employee of the public sector company provide passenger railway service under a contract award in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 2 ) advice provide in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( b ) shall be base on annual investigation of working practice conduct by the independent body and consider — ( a ) value for money ; ( b ) affordability ; ( c ) domestic and international comparator ; ( d ) the future of the rail network , include the modernisation of working practice . ( 3 ) advice provide in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) shall include advice on whether any conflict of interest exist between any Government Minister and any union involve in the negotiation of the term and condition of employment , and how any such conflict should be manage . ( 4 ) an annual report under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) shall include a comparison with the term and condition of employment under the franchise which provide the relevant passenger railway service prior to the awarding of a contract in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 5 ) the first annual report under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) must be lay before Parliament within twelve month of the first award of a public sector contract in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . " amendment 22 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30za Review of impact on exemption of passenger service ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within one year of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , conduct a review of the impact of that Act on the exemption of passenger service under section 24 of this Act . ( 2 ) a review conduct under subsection ( 1 ) must consult — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers ; and ( c ) english combined authority on their willingness and ability to make an application to the appropriate designating authority for the grant of an exemption from designation under section 23 ( 1 ) for the purpose of apply for or be award a public service contract under section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report on the finding of the review before Parliament . " amendment 2 , page 3 , line 23 , after " Scottish Ministers " insert — " or an elect public body " . this amendment , and accompany Amendments 3 , 4 and 5 , would expand the definition of " public sector company " to enable public service contract to run passenger railway service to be award to public sector company own by local elect public body . amendment 3 , page 3 , line 25 , after " Ministers " insert — " or an elect public body " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 . amendment 4 , page 3 , line 27 , after " Ministers " insert — " or an elect public body " . see explanatory statement for Amendment 2 . amendment 5 , page 3 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( ba ) ' elect public body ' mean a body which be — ( i ) a mayoral combine authority ; ( ii ) a combine authority ; or ( iii ) a unitary , county , district or borough council or which be compose of more than one of the body list above . " this amendment in consequential on Amendments 2 , 3 and 4 . amendment 20 , page 3 , line 32 , at end insert — " 30d independent body to provide advice on propose contract ( 1 ) the Secretary of State shall , within three month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , establish an independent body with responsibility for advise the Secretary of State on contract propose to be make in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 2 ) the independent body must provide advice to the Secretary of State , include recommendation as to how or whether to proceed with the agreeing of the contract , within three month of a request for such advice be make by the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) should the Secretary of State wish to proceed with the agreeing of a contract — ( a ) have receive advice against proceed with the agreeing of the contract from the independent body ; or ( b ) without take such step as be recommend by the independent body , the Secretary of State must make a statement in Parliament of the reason for do so . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State shall consult other franchising authority before finalise proposal for the establishment of the independent body under subsection ( 1 ) . " amendment 21 , page 3 , line 32 , at end insert — " 30d annual report on ticket effect of public service contract ( 1 ) the Secretary of State shall lay before Parliament an annual report on the effect of public sector contract award in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) on — ( a ) ticket pricing , ( b ) tap - in , tap - out option , ( c ) single - leg pricing , ( d ) digital season ticket , ( e ) compensation for delay and cancellation , ( f ) ticket interoperability with — ( i ) other train operator , and ( ii ) bus and light rail system operator . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State shall consult other franchising authority before finalise a report under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the first annual report under this section must be lay before Parliament within twelve month of the first award of a public sector contract in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 4 ) each subsequent annual report must be lay before Parliament before the end of July in each subsequent calendar year . " clause 2 to 4 stand part . the schedule . it be good to see hon . member so soon after the summer recess . I know that the Secretary of State for Transport , the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , have be busy over the summer , but I hope that she manage — like the Deputy Prime Minister — to find some time to let her hair down . when we last meet , I set out why the Conservatives can not support the Bill . I do not doubt that Government Members sincerely believe in their plan , in get rid of privately run train operator , and in put politician in charge of run train service , but just because an ideological belief be deeply hold , that do not make it right . it be certainly not the same as use evidence as a basis for decision making . our railway be vital to our economy : million of people rely on train , whether to get they to work or school , to make essential journey , to see family and friend , or simply to visit other part of the country . our rail system be complex — a mix of public and private build up over many year . one thing it be not , though , be a toy train set to be play with , but I fear that be the approach this Government be take . they be rush through this ideological reworking of our rail system despite the absence of solid evidence to back up their approach , at a time when other country be choose to increase private sector involvement and competition in their rail system . there be no good reason for this Committee stage to be race through in one day , rather than through a normal Bill Committee that would allow proper time for consideration and discussion , the time appropriate for such a substantial and significant change . proper time would allow this legislation to be make well — indeed , fit for purpose — draw on the strength of our rail system as well as the weakness , and use the lesson of our experience and that of other , while still fulfil the Government ' s intention as set out in their manifesto . instead , in their haste , this Bill simply take a one - size - fit - all approach , pull the plug on even the good train operating company despite the mixed record of the Department for Transport when it come to the performance of the franchise it run already . in the Government ' s haste , the Bill lack any control or incentive to reduce the risk of increase cost to taxpayer and passenger . we can say the same for performance : where in this Bill be the incentive to improve that , or the protection for passenger should performance worsen when the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley be at the control of our train ? in the Government ' s haste , those thing be miss too . in their haste , if they do what they say in their manifesto , they be go to bring thousand of rail worker into the public sector , all under a single Government employer . we will have union recline comfortably on ministerial sofa as they discuss pay for thousand of people , fund by the taxpayer , with no safeguard to speak of to make sure the taxpayer get a good deal . on Second Reading , I say that some more thought should go into the Bill over the summer . I ask a series of question and make a number of suggestion . at the very least , I be expect the Government to table some amendment , but I be sorry to report that , as far as I can see , they be go full steam ahead . there be no sign that any serious thought have be give to the long - term impact of government - run train company on growth , or on the efficiency of our railway . there be barely a word on the liability that this Bill would transfer on to the Government ' s balance sheet , and crucially , no evidence have be share about how passenger and their journey will be affect . fundamentally , the Government be rush ahead but travel blind , press on irrespective of the impact on passenger or taxpayer , which they simply do not know . the right hon . Lady have make herself passenger - in - chief and then set off on a journey without know the destination . that be not a sensible way to govern . passenger should always come first , above provider , union and ideology . that be why our first amendment would require the Government to set out what impact they believe the Bill will have . I find the hon . member ' s comment on public ownership a bit rich , give that privatisation of our railway have spell 30 year of failure — 30 year of delay and price increase for passenger , and eye - water profit for private company . Most people in the UK oppose privatisation at the time , and most people still oppose it today ; in fact , a clear majority of her own party ' s voter oppose the privatisation of the railway . can she not see that the Secretary of State , in bring forward this Bill , be serve the interest of our constituent ? unfortunately , the hon . member be simply wrong in some of the statement she make . I be not ideological about this — I know that there be a place for the public sector and a place for the private sector . in our reform , we propose a close work together of track and train through great British Railways , much of which this government be plan to bring forward . however , there have also be benefit to this country from privatisation , include a significant growth in passenger number , which have not be see in many other country . that be one reason why several european country be plan to follow our model and increase competition in their rail service , in order to drive up passenger number and provide great efficiency . as I say a moment ago , amendment 18 would require the Government to set out what impact they believe the Bill will have . for instance , what impact will get rid of private sector train company — the good performer as well as the weak one — have on passenger , fare , reliability and the cost of the railway to taxpayer ? the amendment propose that the Government should set that information out clearly in a report within the next six month . I be sure that hon . member do not consider that to be unreasonable ; surely , it be the least that any of we would want to see , since we all represent both rail user and taxpayer . it would mean that we would all know what difference the Government expect the legislation to make . I would hope that the report would be set out in a way that stand up to scrutiny , that it draw on evidence and that it have a suitable level of rigour for something so significant . it would also give we all something to hold the Government to account against , as well as the manager who take over responsibility for train operator . to that end , our first amendment also propose a follow - up report in five year ' time , which would articulate the actual impact of these reform . that be not a lot to ask , so I hope the Government will seriously consider the amendment . passenger and taxpayer deserve to know what difference this change be likely to make , and then what difference it have make — to service and cost , to what their money will buy and how wisely it have be spend — and to be able to compare the impact of the choice this Government be make with those make by government across Europe . as I say , several of those government be reform railway in the other direction by unwind their public model and introduce more private provision into their network . the shadow Minister ask about the benefit that will accrue if this change be make . we on the Labour Benches have be work on it for year , so the suggestion that it have somehow be rush be a nonsense . may I gently point out to she that over the year that this change have not be make , million if not billion of pound have be ship out of this industry to subsidise and support other nation state ' railway system ? if ever there be a nonsense , that be it , stare we in the face . she talk about ideology : the ideology of privatisation have be ruinous for the railway , and it be about time that it be correct . there be a few problem with what the hon . Member have just say . one be that he talk about those figure , but the Government have not take the time or trouble to set out what the impact of the Bill on passenger and taxpayer be expect to be . be the Government confident about that impact , I be sure they would have set it out , but they have not . that be why our amendment propose that they should set it out . we also know that while on the one hand , there be some saving to be make from management fee — I will come to that later in my speech — the benefit of competition , and the pressure of profit and loss and the bottom line , drive innovation and bring efficiency . that do not necessarily happen to the same extent in the public sector . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I will make some progress . for the reason I have describe , we have also table amendment to put some condition on franchise move into the public sector . under the Secretary of State ' s plan , the running of train on our network will increasingly be task to a little - know Government company call DFT OLR Holdings Ltd , or DOHL , the current operator of last resort . it seem to I a huge risk to expect DOHL to successfully take over and run every franchise in the country . DOHL have have , shall we say , mixed result with the franchise it have take over , and expect it to run a further 10 on top of the four it be currently operate strike I as a lot to ask . I recognise that the Bill make reference to that risk by provide for franchise extension where it would not be practical to bring the service in - house , but under the current plan , that would be decide by the Secretary of State . it be not that I do not trust the right hon . Lady , but she have show herself to have a great deal of confidence in public operator , in the absence of any substantial ground for that confidence . I have be tell that there be no plan to increase headcount , budget or resource of any kind for dohl as it take on that increase in workload from four to 14 franchise . I welcome the Government make an effort to achieve efficiency at the centre , but I struggle to believe that more than triple the number of franchise bring in - house will not involve some increase in resource . we therefore think it would be prudent for the Office of Rail and Road to form an independent judgment on whether DOHL have the capacity and expertise to take on each new franchise as it come up , and to run it , at a minimum , as well as it be already be run . that could be do well in advance of most contract end , so it would not really be a hindrance to the Secretary of State ' s plan , but it would provide a great deal of reassurance to passenger , and all of we as their representative , about the capacity of the Government to successfully take over the function of so many train operating company . on impact assessment and how we can have confidence that DOHL will improve performance , we can look at past performance . I remind the shadow Minister that the operator of last resort currently run 14 franchise . since the east coast main line , which serve my region , be take over by LNER , revenue have grow substantially . since TransPennine Express be bring back into public sector operation in May 2023 , we have see cancellation decrease from an average of around 20 % to 5 % . in the last quarter , TransPennine , which be run by the operator of last resort , DOHL , be the most improved operator in term of cancellation score compare with the same period last year . I accept some of the point that the hon . Gentleman make . that be why I say that the record of DOHL have be mix . sometimes there have be improvement in performance , but that be not the case for all the franchise it run . that be my reason for not be confident that it be the right organisation to take on such a large increase in its workload , particularly without any further increase in its resource , include some operator that be perform well than the train company that he mention . we want every contract that be award to place a duty on DOHL to look at how to modernise our network and to ensure that passenger be at the forefront of all decision making — passenger not just in urban area and around London but , crucially , in rural area and place that have traditionally be under - serve by the rail network . time and again , the Secretary of State have say that her no . 1 priority be passenger — that she will protect their interest above all else , and that it be for they that she be seek this change . this be a chance to put her money where her mouth be and create a legal duty that promote the need of passenger in all future agreement with public sector operator . that will build in a layer of accountability on thing that we all agree be important . on amendment 8 , public body mark their own homework be not something that Opposition member believe lead to good result . I know from my time in government that independent scrutiny make life hard for Ministers , but it also improve accountability , and with that outcome . that be why we seek to introduce proper financial reporting and oversight for public sector operator . under the franchise system , whatever its shortcoming , train operator be incentivise to increase passenger number and control cost . that have be an undeniable success of privatisation . passenger number have double and cost have be control , increase at a far slow rate than revenue . in future , passenger and taxpayer will have to foot the bill for any loss of control on cost , any inefficiency or any failure to innovate . that be a serious implication , and something we should do our good to protect people from . create , or recreate , some incentive be a good place to start . we will need to know how well the public train company be perform — what they be do to increase passenger number and drive growth in rail service , how reliable their service be , how well they be keep cost under control , and how satisfied passenger be with the service they provide . our proposal will allow we to identify both good and bad performance , hold the manager of those company to account and reward they accordingly , such as by link managerial pay to performance . those company will no long have shareholder to answer to , or the financial incentive that go with a senior role in the private sector . the Government have tell we that part of their rationale for these change be to well align the incentive of train operator with the interest of passenger , but the Bill currently provide no mechanism for that . we be not seek to frustrate a change that this Government be elect to deliver ; we simply wish to bring proper transparency and accountability to the process . that include report on the cost involve in bring operate company into public ownership . Government Members will no doubt point to the money that will be save by remove management fee , but this equation be not one - sided . while the Secretary of State might be save £ 150 million each year on fee , industry expert have predict that the Bill could cost passenger and taxpayer up to £ 1 billion a year in lose productivity and growth — and that be before account for the Government ' s take on all the long - term liability of the company . pension obligation , roll stock and long - term lease will all be transfer on to the Government balance sheet , and we have have alarmingly little information on what that figure will be . the shadow Secretary of State be make a case from her ideological point of view , although she deny it . run through her speech be a deep suspicion of the public sector . suddenly she be suspicious about the quality of service for passenger . suddenly she be suspicious about the quality of service provide , and the amount of money be spend on it . if only those suspicion and that scrutiny have be apply by the shadow Secretary of State and her colleague while they be in government to the disastrous privatised railway service . be she really try to convince this House that privatisation of the railway be in any way a success ? it seem to I that she be try to stand as a barrier to public opinion and the Bill ' s progress , because the majority of people in this country support public ownership of the railway and the Labour Government be elect with that as a clear manifesto pledge . I be sure the hon . Gentleman be about to finish . I be , thank you . I will bring my remark to a close by ask , be it not the case that the shadow Secretary of State be be deeply ideological and be only interested in the privatised model and the pursuit of profit , regardless of the effect on the public ? the hon . Gentleman and I probably do have different view ideologically ; I will acknowledge that . I think that he probably , as be imply in his intervention , think that profit be bad . I think that profit can be a helpful thing , and it be thank to the motivation of people to make profit that we in this economy , and those in many similar economy , have the prosperity that we enjoy today . I think that Government can do a lot , but I be also thoughtful about when Government can help and when Government might hinder . that be why I take the view that , in rail , sometimes it be right for the public sector to do thing and sometimes it be right for the private sector to do thing . one thing that I fundamentally think be miss from the Bill be scrutiny . I be not try to frustrate the mandate that the hon . Gentleman ' s party have to bring forward this legislation — I think I make that clear — but I want to improve it , and improve it involve introduce a level of transparency and accountability that simply be not in the Bill . that be why I table my amendment . we also seek clarity on how the Bill will affect other privately run passenger service on the network . it be clear that deep down , those on the government Benches know that the public sector can not , and should not , run every service on the network . that be why open access operator like Eurostar and Gatwick Express have rightly be allow to continue under these plan . open access represent a huge opportunity for passenger rail in this country . when do right it can provide nimble , cost - effective service that give passenger great choice and bring in revenue for the network . in fact , the EU have enshrine in law the right of open access operator in tender for passenger service . we be not propose that at this stage , but I be concerned about how this change will impact on those already operate on the network , and what opportunity will remain open to they or other to offer new open access service in future . the same go for the future of devolved concessionary model . why , if Government member truly believe that private provider be simply siphon off cash , can transport for London and Merseyside still run concessionary model ? while I happen to think they should be allow to do so , it do not seem fair to have one rule for Sadiq Khan and another for everyone else . what about Manchester , Leeds or Birmingham ? what if they want to run their own transport system in a way that suit they ? my understanding be that the Labour Government want to build on the progress we have make in devolve responsibility to city and region , but this Bill look more likely to reduce the option for other devolved authority , leave they able to run concessionary model only if they get an exemption under section 24 of the Railways Act 1993 to do so . that bring I to union and pay . the Bill will over time create ten of thousand of new public sector rail worker on a jumble of anachronistic term and condition . there should be an independent body to look at what we be inherit and to advise on what be fair to those employee and the taxpayer each year when it come to pay . teacher , nurse , doctor and our armed force all have independent body that help take the politic out of pay . how can it be a good idea for rail union boss to sit around the table with Ministers negotiate pay without the assistance of an independent pay review body , especially Ministers who from time to time benefit from generous union donation ? I imagine that the Secretary of State herself can see how that would look . she must know that it would not pass the sniff test . this look like the return of the 1970 — a return to deal do over beer and sandwich in No . 10 . surely nobody in this country beside the union want to see that happen . we have actually just have a taste of it with the Government ' s recent ASLEF deal , in which Ministers skilfully negotiate a bumper pay rise for train driver for nothing in return — nothing for passenger and taxpayer . this no - string pay deal mean remove all reform to working practice — in other word , all the thing that might help modernise the network and drive down fare — shortly follow by ASLEF announce another strike anyway . who know what deal be do to get that call off ; perhaps the Secretary of State will be make a statement on that . we on the Opposition Benches be blue in the face from make this argument : living standard be not raise through inflationary pay rise ; they be raise by improve productivity . I would be interested to know whether the hon . Lady have speak to her immediate predecessor to understand exactly the value of the reform he be pursue as Secretary of State , and if she be aware that they be worth less than half the cost of every time the railway go on strike under his leadership . unfortunately , the right hon . Lady ' s approach be deeply flawed and risk our face more strike in future , rather than few . [ interruption . ] yes , to directly answer her question , I can assure she that I have speak to her predecessor in the role , and I know that the reform propose to modernise the railway be crucial not only to control increase cost and fare , but to improve the reliability of our train service . unfortunately , she give all that up overnight when she give away a bumper pay deal of almost 15 % , with nothing from the other side to improve service . the independent body I be propose would look at pay and term and condition in the round . it could shed some light on who be get a fair deal and help put modernisation at the top of the agenda in negotiation . give that this Government seem to be set on create a single huge employer across the network , as set out in their manifesto , which surely mean harmonise pay and term and condition across many thousand of employee , none of whom I suspect will want to give up whatever term they most value — a four - day working week , 34 day of annual leave and the extra money they negotiate to start use ipad be some example — can the right hon . Lady imagine what effect this might have on ticket price and the efficiency of our network ? an independent pay review body could at least gather evidence and advise Government on what make sense to fill job and provide value for money for the taxpayer . Madam Chair , I be grateful to you for give I some time to outline our amendment , and I be mindful that other member wish to talk to their amendment or make maiden speech , so I will wrap up my comment with a couple of final point . as we make clear on Second Reading , his Majesty ' s official opposition do not support this Bill . our rail system need reform , and we have set out plan to do that , but this Bill be not the right way to go about it . on the contrary , the Government be be drive by a flawed ideological belief along the line of " public sector good , private sector bad " . it be not underpin by evidence of what work , and they be not be straight with people about the possible downside such as high fare for passenger , high cost for taxpayer and less reliable train . why be the Government rush through this Bill ? be it to please their Back Benchers , who we know be deeply unhappy about scrap the winter fuel allowance , or be it to please their union paymaster ? I know the right hon . Lady have promise everyone that she be go to move fast and fix thing , but this look more like move fast and break thing . I say sincerely to she , as I be sure she will want to make this legislation as good as it can be and , like I , want to do the well possible job for all our constituent and for the country we serve , that she should please consider the amendment we have table and think hard about give they the Government ' s support . as a point of information and for my assistance , it would be very helpful if member wish to be call could indicate clearly that they wish to speak . rise — thank you . I call Graham Stringer . that be early than I expect , Ms Nokes ! before I come to the amendment I have table , I should say that I be probably the only member in the Chamber who remember the debate on the National Audit Office report after the original privatisation of rail , and if the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) apply her proposal to the original decision to privatise rail , against the criterion the then Government be use , she would find that it have be a complete failure . I remember that when in this Chamber I ask Teddy Taylor , a Conservative I respect greatly , how he justify sell off the railway for less than they be worth , which be what the National Audit Office report say , his justification — the policy of the then Conservative Government — be that it do not matter because they would take all the subsidy out of the railway . have the hon . Lady be present then and have those test be apply to the original policy , the Conservatives ' policy of privatisation would be see to be a complete failure . the other point I would like to make about what the hon . Lady say , which a number of intervention from the Government side bring out , be that a huge amount of money have be transfer to other rail system and to pension fund in north America and elsewhere that could have be use to benefit the transport system in this country . incidentally , one of the reason why passenger number have increase on the railway be that the previous Government do not invest in road over many year . that have lead to congestion which have force people on to the railway ; it be not the privatisation of the railway that have attract those passenger . those profit have go out precisely because the Treasury do not want the debt on the balance sheet , but one can not have it both way . if we be to repatriate those profit , which I believe take the railway back into public ownership will do , we of course have to take the debt . an accountancy sleight of hand , because the Treasury do not like see the debt on the balance sheet , be the direct cause of the profit be take out of this country . on the Government side of the House , there be real enthusiasm for this Bill , and the soon the train operate company be back in public hand and that money be repatriate to this country , the well . however , I share with the shadow Transport Secretary a worry that official in the Department for Transport may not be up to it . excuse may be use to slow thing down , because the operator of last resort be not ready and they be worried about take on the extra capacity . it be a genuine worry , but it be a problem that should and have to be overcome if we want a publicly own railway work for the benefit of passenger and the taxpayer of this country , not a privatised system . I have therefore table an amendment to remove clause 2 ( 3 ) , which could be use as a loophole as it would allow the Secretary of State to carry on with a franchise under certain circumstance . I ask my colleague on the Front Bench to be explicit about what those circumstance might be , because my worry be that they will be get advice from official in the Department for Transport who have not cover themselves in glory and have fail with the railway over many , many year . as the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent like evidence , I refer she to a Public Accounts Committee report in May that be excoriate in describe the official in the Department for Transport and how they have deal with the railway system . I will read some of the conclusion from that report , because it should worry we all if we want this Bill to work — not just to be pass into legislation but actually to work . the first point make by this all - party Committee with a conservative majority in May this year be this : " it have be six year since the Department identify the need for a root and branch review of the railway , but it have achieve very little in this time . " it then say : " there have be too little focus on passenger and taxpayer and how to get they a well deal . " those be the first very worrying point from Labour ' s perspective . the report also say : " six year since the Department start work on rail reform , it have fail to resolve fundamental disagreement and clarify key aspect of reform . " there be other point too , but I do not want to bore the Committee too much . the last point be : " the Department have fail to engage with the workforce to successfully deliver its reform ambition . " that be also very worrying . I note as well the comment of an official from the Department when discuss the appalling performance of Avanti , which I think be permanently in breach of its contract and which have laugh at the Government and the travel public as it have receive massive subsidy . it be not work for profit ; it be not at risk . it have just be rip off the taxpayer for many year — since it take over from Virgin in fact . a dft spokesperson say : " strip Avanti ' s contract would just cause more upheaval for passenger rather than solve the challenge the operator be face . these include restrictive working practice that can ' t be reform without ASLEF ' s agreement . " I think those official could be and have be a barrier to reform . I would not expect my colleague on the Front Bench to do anything but be loyal to the official who work in the Department , but I would like they to respond on how they be go to overcome some of the potential problem they will find in a Department they control . there be not only the problem where there will be resistance . owe to the way the franchise be deal with , some of the well train - operate company — such as Greater Anglia , which have a reasonable record — will come up first , whereas Avanti have eight year leave on its contract . it seem to I that it would be easy for official to recommend deal with the good first rather than the bad , which be not in the interest of passenger or the taxpayer . we really need as a Government to get control of that and deal with the bad first , because that be where we be lose money , that be where passenger be suffer , and that be where money be be take out of the system . as I say , I do not expect the Front - Bench team to criticise the official they have to work with , but I hope they will take on board the fact that there be real problem and that we need to deliver right across the rail system to create a wholly publicly own industry as soon as possible . the Liberal Democrats ' first principle be to put the rail user at the heart of any new arrangement for rail passenger service . we be ultimately agnostic about public or private ownership so long as what the Government propose clearly deliver the improvement on our railway that be so desperately need . I thank Ministers for their prior engagement and for today ' s debate . I be aware that the Bill be only a step towards more comprehensive legislation later in this Parliament . we Liberal Democrats have table three amendment to address three core issue that be relevant to the Bill but might become even more relevant to any future Government plan . amendment 21 be aim at keep passenger experience under review . public confidence in our rail system have be fall year on year . great scrutiny be need of how nationalisation will impact day - to - day travel . our amendment will ensure that get a fair deal for passenger be the guide principle of the Bill . do my hon . friend agree that an essential part of that be address the problem that the railway face now ? although the Liberal Democrats be agnostic on nationalisation , as my hon . Friend say , the problem that customer face now be about pricing and timetabling , and this Bill will not address they . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention and repeat that it remain to be see how quickly that can be address . that be really our main point — we will scrutinise the Government on how quickly these change can be deliver , because that be what all our constituent be really ask for . our amendment would ensure that an annual report be publish on the effect of public sector contract , particularly on the ticketing system . fare hike , delay and cancellation all contribute to a loss of confidence . despite that , passenger number be up ; people want to use our railway as a clean , green way to travel . we agree with the Government that competition be not work as intend , but we can not expect nationalisation to be a silver bullet that solve all the issue with our rail service . it be therefore vital that the Government get a clear picture and be fully transparent about the public experience throughout the change . the current ticketing system be simply not fit for purpose . complicated and inconsistent ticketing be a barrier to rail travel . if we be to meet our climate commitment , green travel must be encourage . I often hear from my constituent that they find it hard to understand when a ticket be good value for money , which highlight the need to simplify the entire system . when people buy a ticket , the good value fare should be clear and should be display first . there have be case where operator - own ticket machine have have an in - build bias to sell their own company ' s ticket even if they be not the good value . commuter should not have to jump through hoop to find the most effective price . amendment 21 would also require a look at the effect of nationalisation on digital season ticket and compensation for delay and cancellation . Delay repay be another big issue on our rail network . in the last reporting year , train operator close 7 . 6 million delay compensation claim . that figure be 30 % high than the previous year even though passenger journey be only 16 % high . however , current operator treat delay repay claim differently : while some passenger can get automatic compensation if their journey be delay , other have to fill in complicated form and have to wait . a unified approach to delay repay be clearly need to improve passenger experience , and I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) that it be absolutely vital that passenger see such change very quickly , rather than have to wait for a whole - system change . the same be also the case with season ticket . annual pass for similar - length rail journey differ immensely across the country depend on the operator . an annual report scrutinise how nationalisation affect those inconsistency be essential to reduce they . to ensure that passenger get a fair deal from nationalisation , I urge member to support our amendment 21 . amendment 20 aim to bring people further confidence as rail company be bring into public ownership . the amendment would establish an independent body to review contract make by the Transport Secretary and public company . that body would put the customer at the heart of service , as well as deliver , put commuter first and hold operator to account . the amendment would ensure that if the independent body do not agree with a propose contract , the Secretary of State must explain to Parliament why they be go ahead . to give the public confidence in our railway , the process of contract allocation must be keep under scrutiny and be fully transparent . our third amendment be amendment 22 , which would require the Government to review how the transition to public ownership affect service such as Merseyrail and Transport for London . those service be already under public control , but in those case the control be local , not national . the amendment would allow more service to be operate by local public body in the future — we have discuss that in our pre - meeting . the review would not simply look at direct impact , but engage with the local public body themselves on their capacity and their wish to deliver such service . if the new Government be serious about devolution , the option for combined authority to deliver service must be on the table . we have already see how devolved authority can deliver rail service effectively . transport for London and Merseyrail be two such example . if devolved authority wish to deliver rail service , there must be a way for they to have discussion with central Government . I understand that such a proposal might be for the future , but it be important we put a marker down here . amendment 22 provide a mechanism for that process . nationalisation must be a means to an end . the public at large do not care who be run the train as long as there be good service and travel be affordable . our liberal Democrat amendment would ensure that the legislation have the passenger at the heart of any change and that the public get value for money . rise — I be come to the end of my remark . the Liberal Democrats want to work with the new Government to improve our railway and deliver a fair deal for passenger . I call on all colleague to support our amendment . I will address my remark to my amendment 7 . it be a probe amendment , whose main purpose be to raise and discuss procurement reform . I start with good news : 100 new job at Alstom Derby , refurbish CrossCountry ' s Voyager fleet , in an upgrade worth £ 60 million . train manufacturing in Derby be at death ' s door some month ago , and now it have a heartbeat , with 10 train for the Elizabeth line in the pipeline . I thank the Transport Secretary and many other hon . member for their extraordinary support in the dark day some month ago , when hundred of job at Alstom — thousand when we consider the supply chain and agency worker — be be lose . the city come together to demand action . no one want to see their city or their workplace go through that , so we need to see an end to boom and bust , replace with consistency and certainty . we need crisis and stick plaster to be replace with long - term funding and stable project . we see a failure to act in that way when privatisation happen . when British Rail be split up , there be real concern that the upheaval would crush the world - renowne expertise in the supply chain in Derbyshire . accord to Hansard on 20 December 1994 , in that year alone , 5 , 000 job be lose nationally . that be one of the first unnecessary tragedy of privatisation . in spite of that setback , more than 10 , 000 worker be employ today in Europe ' s large and most diverse rail cluster , centre around Derby . it cover every aspect of the railway supply chain . since the Bill ' s Second reading , I have be pleased to visit and meet with rail forum member , include h ü bner , Serco , DB ESG , Resonate and Millennium Site Services , which be all enthusiastic about work with this Government to deliver improvement to rail . the Transport Secretary say on Second reading : " as private operator be bring in , their contract and supply chain will be consider , to ensure that they be deliver the good possible service for passenger . " — [ Official Report , 29 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 1074 . ] my amendment seek to establish what detail publication relate to that consideration should include . specifically , the amendment suggest that detail should include the approach towards " technological development … the management of demand and supply … the supply chain … future sectoral planning . " through well procurement we can also speed up delivery , reduce cost and create social value . that point be make in the Maier rail and urban transport review , which be recently publish — I commend the Transport Secretary on commission it . one of its valuable recommendation be that the Rail Minister should be give responsibility for work in partnership with business to support the establishment of local supply chain capability . it make the point that as supply chain capability go up , cost and skill shortage come down . I start with the good news of 100 job at Alstom , but there be no complacency in Derby , because we be look five and 10 year ahead , and I know there be no complacency from the Transport Secretary . on Second Reading , my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) remind the House that to meet decarbonisation goal , the UK need to upgrade up to 4 , 000 roll stock unit . with management of contract and sectoral planning , there be enough domestic work to create a stable base for train builder and their supplier , who can then top that up with export . I therefore look forward to hear from the Minister how we can get the structure right now for delivery in the future . I will not speak for a great deal of time , as this issue be largely devolve in Scotland . however , I welcome the Bill , and the Scottish Government have be keen to support it through a legislative consent motion . that support the work that have already be do in Scotland . we have put the railway into public ownership as a last resort , but the Bill will provide stability go forward for the Government and the operator and enable they to do much well on medium and long - term planning , with certainty on what the future hold . my amendment 6 bring into the debate the role of roll stock leasing company , or rosco . many member on the Government Benches will agree that the rosco be take a huge profit out of the public sector . roll stock contract in the past couple of year take more than £ 3 billion each year , and the amount of profit be take from that be in the billion over the lifetime of the contract . that money could be reinveste in the railway . I appreciate that it be not for this Bill , but I would like the Government to come forward with proposal on rosco in the next Bill that will come forward later in the Session . that be all I want to say at the moment . I do not intend to press my amendment to a Division , but I would like some assurance from those on the Government Front Bench that serious consideration will be give to how we deal with rosco and the amount of profit be take . I start by declare an interest . I be proud of the fact that I be a trade unionist and have strong link to the transport union , particularly Unite , the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers , and ASLEF . indeed , as I point out on Second Reading , when I be a young fellow many year ago , my first job be on the railway , when they be part of British Rail . in those day , I be a member of the National Union of Railwaymen . more recently , I serve on the Transport Committee for almost six year , and I be delighted that many of the argument and issue that I and many other stakeholder raise in numerous session have finally find their way into a Government Bill and on to the Floor of the House of Commons . have serve 14 year in opposition , I understand the Opposition ' s call in their amendment for report , performance assessment and impact assessment . I be familiar with the argument . however , the Bill ' s integrity must remain intact . much of the information request by the Opposition about performance will be produce routinely , so there be no need for a separate clause request it . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport and her team for prioritise the Bill , bring it to Committee so soon after the recess , and keep up the momentum from before the summer . I believe that the Bill will fix a structural failure in UK railway by end the presumption in favour of the private sector for passenger service delivery . contrary to the view express by the opposition and set out eloquently by the shadow Secretary of State , the Bill will save taxpayer money , as profit will be use to improve rail service , rather than inflate considerable , unwarranted dividend payment to private train operator . as my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) indicate , the private train operating company be often own by foreign government , so in fact we be subsidise the rail fare of passenger in other european country . the previous Government allow train operating company to pay out hundred of million in dividend while take public subsidy . that be financial mismanagement . it be bad value for money and exploitative of the taxpayer and commuter . the privatisation of the railway be a privatisation too far , even for she whose portrait should be remove . do my hon . friend agree that it be utterly ridiculous that the only nation state on the planet not able to run the railway in this country be this one ? absolutely . if ever there be a charge of political dogma to be make , it must be about the fact that , under the term of the privatisation , the british taxpayer and the British Government be not allow to own a stake in our own railway . for too long , private company have provide a substandard service while make substantial profit . over the last seven year , the remain private train operating company — I apologise for mislead the Committee , but I misspoke early when I say that there be 14 of they ; there be 14 franchise in total , four of which be operate by the state through the operator of last resort — have pay out an average of £ 130 million annually to their shareholder . those company be often own by foreign government — in Germany , Italy , France and across Europe and the world . meanwhile , passenger ' day - to - day experience have be of overcrowded carriage , delay , service failure and , bad of all , some of the high fare in Europe . it be worth think about the cost , and the profit that some private train operator have be able to generate for shareholder . figure release just this week show that Govia Thameslink Railway pay out a staggering £ 82 . 4 million in dividend , with £ 62 . 3 million of that be for the 2023 - 24 financial year . that represent a 268 % increase from the previous year . in return for those princely profit , Govia consistently fail to meet two third of its customer service quality target , as report in the Financial Times . the situation be encourage to persist under the last Conservative Government . I welcome the fact that Labour be make this a priority from day one , as that be fundamental to fix the foundation and deliver the economic growth promise by the Prime Minister . I support the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) and the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) about the roll stock company — the so - call rosco . many commentator see a problem with the newly form great British Railways have to continue to lease roll stock from rosco , as that would allow those company to profit from taxpayer ' money . my view be that rosco be an unnecessary link in the chain . I frequently raise the issue with expert and industry leader on the Transport Committee , and I believe that we would benefit from meet our roll stock need by place order directly with UK - base manufacturer such as Alstom and Hitachi , rather than enrich the rosco . despite be in post for a relatively short time , the Secretary of State have make a strong start with the Bill . however , I urge she to consider the point raise by I and member on both side of the Committee about how we continue to procure roll stock as we move forward . on Second Reading , the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , say that purchase exist roll stock would not be a responsible use of taxpayer money . I understand that , but will the Minister , in respond , clarify whether in the future , under GBR , there will be an option to purchase new rolling stock directly , instead of have to continue to lease through the rosco ? as my hon . friend the Member for Derby North say , the UK need to upgrade to 4 , 000 unit of roll stock over the come decade , with Network Rail estimate cost in the ten of billion of pound , so this be an ideal opportunity to explore a new financing model for roll stock . I be not naive — I understand the financial situation that we have inherit from the last government — but I ask the Government to explore not - for - profit financier if roll stock can not be nationalise under GBR . may I point out respectfully that Eurofima , a supranational not - for - profit financier , have state that , for every £ 1 billion of financing on UK railway , it could save the taxpayer £ 350 million over 30 year due to its low financing cost ? that be compare to use the exist rosco . will the Secretary of State update we on the possibility of use not - for - profit financier for roll stock in preference to the rosco ? I will take up the point make by the shadow Secretary of State about the pay review body . may I point out that they be not universally welcome ? I have be look at response to pay review body in the health service , and the last Government have a less than wonderful record when it come to implement the recommendation of pay review body , not least those relate to junior doctor . the Royal College of Nursing have say of pay review body that there be " nothing independent about they . " the chair and member of pay review body be hand - pick by the Prime Minister and Government Ministers , and the term of reference be decide by the Government . there be some scepticism about how independent they truly be , and about whether , when they make recommendation , the Government be oblige to implement they in full . I ask the Minister if it be possible to provide a timetable for the next step . when will future Bills be introduce to the House , and when be Great British Railways expect to be fully establish ? I acknowledge and express my appreciation for the engagement of the Front - Bench team . I stress that I support the Bill because I believe that it represent a critical step in fix the long - stand issue in our rail system . the current privatised framework be give a fragmented railway , and have fail to deliver value for money , an efficient service or customer satisfaction . I be pleased that we be move towards a model that prioritise the need of passenger over the profit of shareholder . rethink our approach to rail management and financing be a crucial first step towards fix the foundation and put great British Railways at the service of the travel public . the Greens be not agnostic on privatisation . we very much support the principle of the Bill and look forward to its progress . I want to make a short speech on amendment 2 to 5 , which I table . they be very simple and common sense ; their goal be to leave open the opportunity for elect devolve body to set up company that they own , in order to bid to run railway service under the overall guidance and wing of Great British Railways . the Bill , which restrict the definition of a public sector company to those own by Ministers , either here or in Wales or Scotland , do not allow for that . that seem to clash with the direction of travel towards more public sector devolution , with which my party and I agree . it would improve and future - proof the Bill if we amend propose new section 30C of the Railways Act 1993 so that Ministers could in future choose a company set up or own by combined authority , or by group of unitary , county , district or borough council who decide to co - operate , ahead of further devolution , on improve their railway . any decision on the award of franchise , on the suitability of a body to run and own local railway , and on where investment should go would remain fully with Ministers . I table the amendment in a constructive spirit , and I hope that they will start a constructive conversation that will continue here and in the other place as the Bill progress . I call Abtisam Mohamed to make her maiden speech . thank you , Ms Cummins , for give I the opportunity to speak . it be a real privilege to deliver my maiden speech in this debate on the Bill , which will see the big overhaul to transportation in a generation . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) on make excellent point about place passenger at the heart of decision , rather than unthinkable profit for shareholder . I deliver my maiden speech with a sense of profound honour and humility . represent the vibrant and diverse community of Sheffield Central be a responsibility that I do not take lightly . I would like to start by say a few word about my predecessor , Paul Blomfield . a Labour MP for the last 14 year , Paul turn a majority of 165 to a majority of a whopping 27 , 000 . he achieve this electoral popularity because he make politic accessible and be a great constituency MP . he listen to people and make their concern his priority . he fight for the people of Sheffield Central tirelessly and consistently . he be everything we should look for in the character of elect member : humble , honest and extremely hard work . he have receive many award in recognition of that . on a personal level , Paul have be my mentor . his guidance and support during my campaign have be invaluable , and for that I be deeply grateful . if he be watch , I would like to thank he for all the support that he have give I , and for everything that he have do for the people of Sheffield Central . Sheffield Central be a microcosm of all that be Sheffield and all that be modern Britain . it be characterise by its rich cultural diversity , beautiful green space and a thriving independent economic dynamism . from the beautiful Bole hill view to the new Pound ' s Park in the city centre , the small independent shop in Sharrow Vale and the up - and - come Neepsend and Kelham , we have an unwavering sense of community spirit that genuinely make every area feel like home . that be because it be home to remarkable individual and organisation that work tirelessly to make our city a well place . it be a place where tradition meet innovation ; we have see the recent excavation and regeneration of a 12th century castle , and have new thrive business hub , such as Leah ' s Yard , which be the place of old toolmaker and be now the city ' s new exciting independent home for maker and creative . Sheffield have earn its stripe as the undisputed start - up capital of the UK . we also have a very large student population . Sheffield Central be home to two brilliant , world - class university that enrich the fabric of our community . I be fortunate to have be a student at both of these excellent institution at various point in my life . with vibrant museum and the large theatre complex outside London , we be a city that recognise people ' s creativity , knowledge , identity , tradition and passion . our theatre have be home to the world snooker championship since 1977 and , more recently , the multi - award - win musical , " stand at the Sky ' s Edge " . Sheffield have no desire to copy ; we desire to celebrate and embody our uniqueness . we storm ahead in our ability to bring people together , to think , to create and to celebrate . as the first city of sanctuary , Sheffield be a city rich in diversity , with settle community and heritage from all over the world . in 1963 , a man cross two continent to start a life in the city of Sheffield . he come by invitation of the British Government to work in the then grow steel industry . he be draw by the desire to better himself and his family . later , his son join he in the 1970 and they work for the renowned Forgemasters . in 1982 , they be able to support the journey of a young woman and her two little girl from the Yemen to the United Kingdom . that man be my grandfather , and you be listen to one of those little girl tell her story now . I be honour to be the first person of yemeni heritage and the first british arab woman to be elect as a Member of Parliament . I be immensely proud of that honour , and I feel privileged to represent not just my constituency , but every person who have ever hope for a well future . I have climb personal mountain and face many personal barrier and hurdle that have come my way , and not only have I have to overcome they , but I have fight for and help many other along the way . I grow up in some of the most deprived part of Sheffield and attend some of the most underachieving school . I grow up with people like I : people who have very little hope and huge odd stack against they ; people who do not understand politic and system , just day - to - day survival . and when life become about survival , live within the constraint of our own prism , our voice be our only mean of break through . I leave school with four gcse and go on to graduate four time . I refuse to become a statistic . I refuse to be define by my postcode or the school I go to . I work hard to qualify as a teacher and then a lawyer . but I be never satisfied unless I be use my experience and voice to well the life of other . I have console and weep with many parent who have lose their child to gang violence , either bury or in prison . I have work tirelessly , bring together the police and youth provider , develop community - lead service , work to reduce crime and get young people engage in community activity and into job or education . I have support woman flee domestic violence and seek well support for they and ensure their safety . I recognise that there be many priority in politic , but build strong community will always be at the heart of mine . I will champion localism , ensure that local authority and , equally , community organisation and charity get the support they need to deliver the good in early year , youth work and mental health support , create local job and service for those who need they the most . I will press on the urgency of our commitment on climate action , where we work for the good interest of our planet rather than the interest of oil and gas company . I will advocate for more affordable housing to provide young people hope for the future . and hope be key . Hope will shape our individual story , who we be and the journey we take . I personally break through deprivation barrier by embrace the education system and the opportunity provide then by the Labour Government . a strong education system be the cornerstone of a thriving society . it be the key to unlock potential and create opportunity . so support the education system , from early year right through to high education , will always be a key priority not just for I but for the constituency I represent . I will also use my platform to strongly advocate for cohesion in society . I be drive by the belief that fairness and inclusion be core value that must be embody in all that we do . I will do everything in my power to promote multiculturalism in our brilliant country and will reject the tired populism of blame , exclusion and hate . our unity be our strength . indeed , the positive reaction against the recent riot celebrate an identity of diversity and inclusiveness . as I look ahead , I be fill not with foreboding , but with optimism . we have a new Labour Government with a strong mandate from across the country . I will work with my colleague to strengthen and champion our community . I will work alongside anyone who want to eradicate racism and bind our cosmopolitan community together . we be strengthen by our diversity , not weaken by it , and we must hold firm to the fundamental right and freedom we all cherish . it be imperative that everyone feel value and include , and we must strive to ensure that our public service be accessible to all . I will work tirelessly to make and promote law and policy that foster inclusivity and challenge the systemic barrier that prevent all individual from reach their full potential . I stand here as a woman of colour , alongside many other from different background , and as a proud product of multiculturalism who now have the honour and privilege of be the voice of the people of Sheffield Central and beyond . I be here to listen , to learn , to serve and to act in the good interest of all our community . it be a real privilege to listen to the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) . her passion for the constituency that she have be elect to represent shone through in her speech , and I congratulate she on be the first british arab woman to be elect to Parliament . I really enjoy listen to what I would well describe as a picture portrait , in her word , of her constituency . I will reflect on that next time I drive up or down the M1 — while also concentrate on my driving , of course . let I now turn to the Bill . I rise to support the opposition amendment , particularly amendment 10 , 12 , 15 and 17 . as other have say , this be a short Bill , but I believe that its aim be radical and ideological . it will completely change our rail system , remove the presumption in favour of private sector operation of passenger service and allow the Government to bring those operator into public ownership when a franchise end . in short , I see this move as nationalisation and , indeed , ideologicalisation . although the Bill introduce such fundamental change , it be also be rush through this place with limited scrutiny , for just four hour for Committee consideration . small Bills have sit in Bill Committees for many more session . in fact , I think that a private Member ' s Bill of mine spend more time in Committee than this . I be disappoint because there seem to be scant regard for what these change will cost . I be also disappointed because I think the Bill should be consider alongside the railway Bill , which be yet to be publish , and from my perspective that make the scrutiny of the Bill , particularly at this stage , even more important . I agree that the current model be not work . I be a former Rail Minister , and when we be in government we acknowledge the need to change and make the case for rail reform . however , that reform be about simplification , not nationalisation . it be about bring the track close to the train and put the passenger first . let I begin with amendment 10 and 12 . I do not think we should underestimate the need for strict scrutiny , accountability and transparency . at the end of the day , that be what we on the Opposition side of the Chamber be here to provide . without the additional measure propose in the amendment , it seem very unclear how the shift from franchise to public ownership will work , and how its impact will be assess . how will the cost be monitor , and where will investment in future roll stock come from ? another problem with the Bill in its current form be the arbitrary transfer of franchise to public ownership , base not on performance but simply on chronological franchise date . I raise that on Second Reading . west Midlands Trains , for example , be one of the well performer , but its contract expire this month . contrast that with Avanti West Coast . as many member have probably experience when travel to this place , it be currently one of the bad operator , yet its contract expire in 2026 . my reason for support the amendment be to ensure that , through strict reporting and oversight of the new operator , we will see target that be link to performance and innovation . it be important that they be also link to managerial pay , and it be all about keep the passenger at the heart of what we be do . it be also important to look closely at how the operator of last resort will manage the many more train service that will fall under its remit . I be not quite sure whether the OLR will have more resource to do that — hence the need to have account and monitor what be happen . it be also important to understand how and where decision about infrastructure and investment be be make . I will cite the example of the midland rail hub , which the last Conservative Government commit to . it be absolutely critical to growth and improvement in service , and not just in Birmingham but across the west midland and other region . I would like to understand how some of the investment will be progress under the new model , and how they will be hold to account . amendment 15 seek to address the issue of open access operator . again , I raise this issue at Second Reading and , to be fair , the Rail Minister write to I and confirm that there will remain a role for open access service , alongside publicly own service . I welcome that , not least because it give I a reason to continue to bang on about the need for the Government to support the bid for open access for service from Wales to London Euston via Aldridge . however , we need a train station in order for the train to stop in Aldridge , and we want it to be build by 2027 and not push into the siding by the new Labour mayor . so forgive I , Madam Chairman , but I will keep talk about that until we see it deliver , not least because resident be expect it to happen . amendment 15 seek to carve out the space for open access operator and ensure that there be fairness in the awarding of contract , which will be critical move forward . I genuinely believe that there be a place for both the current system of provide train service and open access operator . generally speak , a lot of they have prove their value to the passenger and the taxpayer . I will touch briefly on amendment 17 , which be about reform term and condition . I welcome the breakthrough in the pay talk , which be very positive , but it be really disappointing that it have do nothing to address the urgent need for reform of some of the term and condition . I see that as be crucial for the future stability of rail passenger service and for have the passenger - focus , seven - day - a - week service that the fare - pay passenger expect . without the tool to scrutinise the ideologically drive change , there be a real risk that the Bill fail not just the taxpayer , but fare - pay passenger , as many member have highlight this afternoon . finally , for constituent to be able to enjoy any benefit of rail travel , they need access to a local station . I will close my remark by refer to Aldridge , because it be just one of a handful of constituency that have a track but no train station . I urge the Minister to join I in push his colleague in the Treasury and the West Midlands combine authority to help I deliver a train station for Aldridge on time . I call Julia Buckley to make her maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Chair , for allow I to make my maiden speech . what a privilege it be to follow my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and her move story of her family overcome racism and her personal passion for change . I be delighted to contribute to this afternoon ' s debate on our plan to introduce great British Railways and bring train back into public ownership . nowhere will these benefit be feel more keenly than in my constituency of Shrewsbury , where service be thin on the ground , lack carriage and frequent and reliable service . Most resident and visitor to Shrewsbury would very quickly conclude that our town be a beauty spot with so much potential but cut off from the wide economic region by a lack of robust public transport . this be mirror by our inadequate bus service , with over 5 , 000 route cut since 2010 . Shrewsbury be dream of a Sunday service or a bus after 6 pm to support our young people and our night - time economy . public bus franchise will make a huge impact on so many life . we also have high hope for midland Connect ' s plan to electrify the train route between Shrewsbury and Wolverhampton to boost our capacity . Shrewsbury be , of course , the new name for my constituency — or should that be Shrowsbury ? apparently , pronunciation reveal which side of the river you grow up on . as it turn out , the people of Shrewsbury — and Shrowsbury — be very tolerant of both pronunciation . my constituency be know for many year as Shrewsbury and Atcham , until several village lead up to Wenlock Edge be donate to South Shropshire under the boundary review . my predecessor , Daniel Kawczynski , be well known to this House , as he serve our constituency for 19 year and be particularly focus on raise the profile and challenge of our river , through establish and chair the River severn caucus . I hope to continue this important work with my neighbouring colleague as we tackle the share threat of flooding and compromise water quality . there be another , perhaps even more famous former MP for Shrewsbury . go back a little far into history , Benjamin Disraeli be our Member of Parliament from 1841 , when he earn a reputation as be both witty and able before go on to twice become Prime Minister and to decriminalise the work of trade union . Shrewsbury have many famous son , but none be more well know than Charles Darwin , the father of evolution . he be bear and raise in Shrewsbury , attend Shrewsbury school as a boarder in the building that have since become our town library and have a statue commemorate his contribution to learn . we be delighted that his family home will finally become an international visitor attraction to celebrate his work . unlike Darwin , I have only live in Shropshire for a mere 20 year , so I be grateful to have be graciously adopt by the good people of Shrewsbury to represent the county town for Shropshire . it be renowne as one of the fine medieval market town , with regular farmer market brim with local producer , agricultural livestock market and our award - win indoor market , which go from strength to strength with late - night event and live music , win Britain ' s favourite market no less than three time . the River Severn famously form a loop around the town centre , frame by our old town wall , as a backdrop to our old historic property , stone - flag narrow street , regency crescent and impose black and white timber - frame building . in total , we have over 600 list building , include the castle — now a museum — the art gallery , the old market hall and the famous Shrewsbury abbey . our main shopping street , the Wyle Cop , which climb the steep hill from the English bridge up to the town square , be report to host more independent shop than any other street in the country , thank to the support of the Shrewsbury business improvement district and our chamber of commerce . there be beautiful riverside walk , cycle path , pedestrian bridge and — the jewel in our crown — the Quarry park along the river , with Percy Thrower ' s famous sunken garden in the dingle . this be where the Royal Horticultural Society host its annual flower show . with such well - keep beauty and heritage charm , it be easy to see why Shrewsbury attract so many visitor each year , boost by our array of cultural festival include the folk festival , the food festival and of course the Darwin festival , as well as the county show at the West Mid showground and Loopfest . we also welcome gentle , sustainable tourism — those who come to walk in the Shropshire hill , kayak down the river or take a leisurely cruise on our famous tour boat , the Sabrina . I be sure that member listen be already plan to book their next visit , and I would be happy to oblige with a guide tour for any who make it . we have some 30 or so small village in the rural hinterland : Upton Magna in the east towards the Wrekin ; Montford Bridge ; Nesscliffe with its long - stand military training camp ; Minsterley , Pontesbury and Bayston Hill to the south ; and Shrawardine and Westbury almost on the Welsh border , in what be historically name the Marches . these roll green hill provide our farming base and woodland natural habitat , and serve our agricultural sector , ably support by the nearby world - lead Harper Adams University , where our farmer of the future be train in sustainability and productivity . that be crucial , give their impact on the food and drink supply chain that flow through the county to support our local economy . we have several large employer , include the world - lead Morris Lubricants factory date back to 1869 , Salop Leisure , Beaver Bridges and , of course , Shrewsbury Town football club , where manager David Moyes once play . despite the very long list of famous Shrewsbury man , I be here today as the first female MP for Shrewsbury , and not before time . I be the daughter of a coalminer whose pit be close in 1986 , and who never work again . I be 12 year old when this affect our family and our community , and it be when my interest in politic be first ignite . as an adult , I be fortunate to win a scholarship for my phd in EU policy , and I work in the European Parliament in Brussels for five year , specialise in regional investment funding to tackle inequality . while I be there , I make friend with the chirpy young woman in the next office , another northern lass who be passionate about politic — Jo Leadbeater , who later become Jo Cox . we run the New York marathon together in 2001 with Suzy Sumner , as the Northern Lasses . we be so proud of Jo when she become an MP and how , with her usual style of tiggerish enthusiasm and charm , she would persuade everyone towards her policy aim . that be all the more reason why her death be so very difficult to comprehend : a senseless loss of someone so sincere and positive . Jo never shy away from stand up for what she believe in and what really matter , however difficult or unpopular . she never say she be too tired or too busy . she just get on and fight for what be important , and always with a win smile . Jo inspire I to go back into politic . after realise that life be too short and precious to wait for other people to solve problem , I decide to be more like Jo . that week , I rejoin my local Labour party , and become a town councillor and then a county councillor , and ultimately leader of Shropshire Labour group . I stand as the parliamentary candidate for the seat in 2019 , and I return this year to win and become our MP , thank in no small measure to the support of my husband John and the patience of my child Annabel and Edward . I conclude by say to Jo and her sister Kim that finally the Northern Lasses be reunite in this place . I call Sorcha Eastwood to make her maiden speech . I congratulate everyone who have make their maiden speech today , and I have to speak from the heart and say that it be incredibly move to hear the hon . member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) talk about her friend Jo Cox , who be a former colleague of so many in this House . Jo ' s philosophy , that we have more in common than that which divide we , certainly inspire I . we have a lot to learn from that in my part of the world in Northern Ireland . it be an honour to be here today as the new MP for Lagan Valley . like many other , I be the first woman MP for my home constituency . I would not be stand here today without the people of Lagan Valley , who have give I the privilege of represent they on Lisburn and Castlereagh council , in the Northern Ireland Assembly and now at Westminster . I want to take a wee moment to thank Team Lagan Valley Alliance , my colleague David Honeyford MLA and my successor Michelle Guy MLA . I also want briefly to pay tribute to my dear friend and colleague Stephen Farry , who serve in this House for five year represent the constituency of North Down . I be delighted that Alliance be continue the legacy of Stephen ' s contribution in this House . there be a saying back home , " it ' s far from here that you be rear , " and it certainly be far from here that I be rear . there be absolutely no expectation that I , as the daughter of Brigid McKeown , who be bear on the side of Blaris Road in Lisburn , would wind up as the MP for Lagan Valley . my journey in politic begin around our family table . where I grow up , people do not really take an active interest in politic unless it take an active interest in they . I learn around our family table about public service in housing , education , policing , nursing or whatever it may be — that it be about what we can give back to our community . my mum use to ask I every Sunday , " do you want to do a wee general knowledge quiz ? " and I would be like , " yeah , who doesn ' t like a quiz ? " she use to take I into our back room and say , " who be the Prime Minister ? " and " what ' s the capital of Spain ? " what I do not really understand be that my mum , who leave school with no qualification and work damn hard as a domiciliary care worker , want her daughter to have a well life , and education be the key to that . no , it be certainly far from here that I be rear , but that make my presence today even more important . but this be not about I or my life or my family ; this be about the ten of thousand of people across Lagan Valley who grow up the exact same way . in fact , just today , while sit on these Benches , somebody send I a wee private message to ask , " can you help I with this ? oh and here , by the way , it ' s good to see that one of we get in there . " they do not mean " one of we " in the northern irish sense of the past ; they mean somebody who grow up in the same street as they , who have the same social problem and know what it be like to work a minimum wage job : strong , dignified people ; people who want well , vote for change and for the first woman MP for Lagan Valley , but more importantly who vote for the first united community MP for Lagan Valley . our job here be to speak truth to power . frankly , the people of Lagan Valley would not let I away with anything less . the system be break . the social contract be shatter . it be not work . we have play this tape through to the end . we know how it end . it so often end with the most vulnerable in society crush by a system that be sometimes overwhelmingly stack against they . the system be harm people . austerity be a political choice , and not one that my constituent — or frankly anybody in the UK — should be force to bear . nearly 40 % of people who be work be in receipt of universal credit . young people be price out of the housing market , we be not build enough social or affordable home and renter be be exploit . we have full - time worker across health , education and hospitality dipping in and out of food bank . when do food bank become normalised ? I do not want a single one of we ever to regard food bank as a part of our social architecture . we should be ashamed and disgusted and spend every minute in this place to eradicate their need . People who be work full time and in a household where both be often earn well above the median wage be have to shell that money out again through childcare cost , and many time it be the woman who have to give up her job . some politician need focus group to tell they what people feel about certain issue , while other create divisive culture war to distract we from what really matter . but it should be as clear as day that people do not want more of the same . they do not need to be tell that it be go to be painful , because they have be in pain for a long , long time . the message need to be one of hope , ambition , vision and inspiration . from listen to the speech , not just today but over the past few day and week in the House , I know that that be not something we be short of . People know that underfunded and unfunded promise be make , and nowhere have that be feel more than in Northern Ireland and in my constituency , Lagan Valley . Alliance proudly go out before the election and campaign primarily on two thing — first , reform of the institution and end the veto , which so often have lead to have no government for the gut of 10 year where I be from . that be not acceptable . we also campaign strongly for a fair funding package for Northern Ireland . that be not just a political opinion of mine ; the Fiscal Commission for Northern Ireland say that Northern Ireland be not fund base on need . I will certainly be make no bone about fight for that in this House . it be one thing to say that we need reform of the institution and for the UK Government to say that we have win the intellectual argument . well , guess what ? we have also win the argument at the ballot box time and time again . that be not something I will shy away from championing in my time in this House . I sit around in Ballymacash estate on Friday and talk to people there about a number of thing they be do in that area that be absolutely fantastic . that community have go on from year of social exclusion and isolation to develop so much . we talk about funding stream , and one we mention be the UK share prosperity fund . they say to I , " that ' s your job to go and fight for that . " do you know what ? it be . I meet woman from Tonagh estate . they ring I and say , " we be desperately worried about our winter fuel payment . " they be not the people with broad shoulder . People say that politics be personal . it be absolutely personal to I — I make no bone about that . one in two of we will get cancer in our lifetime . I know personally five of my constituent who last year be diagnose in our accident and emergency department . just two of those people be alive today , and that be within one year . one of those people diagnose in A & E be my husband , who have a rare form of blood cancer . through that time , cope with that diagnosis , we have meet hundred of family right across the UK and Ireland who have be impact by this . every second we be in this place , somebody in this country will get a diagnosis of cancer . I be not sure how this slide down the public agenda , but cancer survival rate in the UK be as much as 25 year behind other european country . although health may be devolve , the concept of the NHS definitely be not , and I will certainly be fight tooth and nail to make sure that it remain the way that it be mean to be , so that we do not underfund it and gaslight the patient who need it or the staff who be work in it . Britain have the few CT , MRI and PET scanner per person of 16 comparable country , as well as a shortage of radiographer to run they . this have a direct impact on cancer diagnostic and the life prospect of our constituent . I be not one to just highlight problem and walk away . there be solution . an enhanced windfall tax on energy giant would create revenue that could be use to help safeguard the wellbeing and health of vulnerable individual and , in do so , prevent future hardship and illness , which be costly to the NHS . a phase carbon tax could help capture environmental cost and cost of inaction , allow for investment in green technology and create new job . today ' s debate be about the public railway ownership Bill . if I can be brutally honest , I be not sure that we have ever recover from the Beeching report . this be obviously a devolved issue , but we in Lagan Valley be desperate to get the train back to where they should be . we be certainly delighted to look forward to the Knockmore line be reopen again . austerity have fail , and the last thing we need be more of it . now be our opportunity to transform the life of our constituent , change the thing that really matter to they and deliver big investment in public service that match our big ambition for they . half a mile from my home in Lagan Valley , it be a change place . there be GAA pitch , Orange hall , LGBT club and egyptian society . that be the new Northern Ireland — the north — everyone ' s share homeplace . I know that , in Lagan Valley , there be a weight on my shoulder to deliver leadership for people right across the community regardless of their view , but I have no fear that either Alliance or myself , in my time in this House , will fall short when it come to represent and fight for people . I look forward to work with everyone in this House on the issue that matter to we , and I look forward to work with the Government to create the change and make a society where our constituent , particularly in Lagan Valley and right across Northern Ireland , can flourish . I look forward to work with you all . thank you , Madam Chair . I call Paul Waugh to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Chair . it be an honour to make my maiden speech during the passage of such a landmark piece of legislation and one that be very much long overdue . it deliver on our promise at the election of real change , and every one of we here be proud to represent it . it be also an honour to follow my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) and the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , who make such moving and powerful speech . they be a real tribute to this historic 2024 intake . they show up the excellence and diversity of our intake . in a maiden speech , it be customary to pay tribute to one ' s predecessor . I sincerely thank George Galloway for his career of public service . I wish to pay tribute to the late Sir Tony Lloyd , a man who command respect across this Chamber and whose decency , internationalism and compassion be an example to each one of we . as Tony once advise his staffer , now my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) : " if it be not about make people ' s live well , don ' t be a politician . " rochdale certainly have a long history of make people ' s live well and of strong link to this Palace of Westminster . indeed , it be a rochdale lass , 15 - year - old Emily Kelsall , who , in 1843 , lay the foundation stone of the Elizabeth Tower that house Big Ben . the Kelsalls be close friend of another of my predecessor , the great parliamentarian Richard Cobden and his ally , John Bright , who famously describe England as the mother of Parliaments . Cobden and Bright , one a rochdalian by adoption and one a rochdalian by birth , be two rochdale radical who campaign as vigorously against slavery as they do for cheap food through the abolition of the corn law and for a wide franchise . another rochdalian who be friend with Cobden and Bright be the Lancashire dialect poet Edwin Waugh , after whom my young son , Eddie , who be in the Gallery , be name . Waugh capture the beauty of the " hill and hillock , knoll and dell " , and the moor and brook of my Pennine constituency . from Blackstone Edge to Hollingworth lake , from Healey Dell to the landscape garden of our magnificent town hall , there be greenery and beauty throughout our town and its village of Littleborough , Wardle , Milnrow and Newhey . the Pennine way cut through my seat , yet our Pennine way be more than just the well - love footpath ; it be a way of do thing , too . our Pennine way be one of community , co - operation , self - help and resilience . ever since the Rochdale Pioneers set up shop in 1844 to sell affordable basic like butter , sugar and flour , we have be proud to be the birthplace of a global co - operative moment , and I be proud to be the first Labour and Co - operative MP in our town ' s history . that sense of co - operation and community have be enhance by the current of migration that have flow through our town as steadily as the River Roch itself . scot , like my own Waugh clan , the Irish , Italians , Ukrainians , Poles , Pakistanis , Kashmiris , Bangladeshis , Nigerians — we even welcome the occasional Yorkshireman — have all staff our factory and our NHS and create new family business . all be proud Rochdalians . just as our town have show real resilience in the face of economic downturn and Government cut , our community cohesion have prove resilient , too — despite the provocation of extremist on all side . as well as radicalism and resilience , our town ' s story be a story of renewal . many of our mill have close , but there be still a strong sense of industry , of hard work , of grafter , of entrepreneur , of people who put something back into the town that raise they . there be people like Richard Tang , whose Zen internet start as a small , home - base business , but be now a major network provider and our big private sector employer . there be people like Sir Peter Ogden , who found Computacenter and this year invest million into my beloved Rochdale AFC — up the Dale — in recognition of its role as a hub of our community . from the brass band of Milnrow to the rock and folk music of Feel good festival , our art be thrive too . rochdale sixth - form college be one of the high achieving in the country . our armed force veteran support group be superb . springhill hospice be a beacon of excellence , and the Oasis ward at Rochdale infirmary be a national model in dementia care . my own journey from Rochdale to this place be make possible only by an enable state : a fantastic teacher , John Williams , who spot the potential in I and my twin brother , Mark ; a council house that give I the stability and affordability that many family sadly lack today ; and free school meal that mean we could focus on learn , not earn . as a former chairman of the Lobby , it would be remiss of I not to also mention the role that my parliamentary journalism have play in propel I on to these Benches — and I would like to dispel the vicious rumour that the main reason I stand for Parliament be to guarantee five more year of jerk chicken . the phrase " Westminster village " be often use as an insult , but this place really be a village , in the good sense of the word : a community of more than 3 , 000 people from all walk of life , make sure that this be an open and accessible people ' s House , not the preserve of an elite . for 26 year , I have have the pleasure of work in this building , with its fabulous canteen staff like Betty , Rita , Daphne , Terry and Godfrey , the Doorkeepers like Adrian , the security staff like Saeed , the many Clerks and official , and of course , the police . I will never forget the day when we lose our own " village policeman " , PC Keith Palmer , in the terror attack of 2017 . it have be my pleasure to work with my Lobby colleague and with mps of all party , and I would like to reassure all the Tory leadership contender : don ' t worry , your secret be safe with I . politician and journalist have more in common than either would like to admit . at their good , both be honourable trade — and they be trade ; they be not profession — but the big difference between we be the difference between criticism and action , between commentary and do . in the end , I could no long just write about the appalling state of our public service ; I want to do something about it . I want to do something about the NHS worker like my wife , who come home every night exhaust by a sheer lack of staff . I want to do something about all those work - class kid like I whose destiny be still too often determine by their postcode , not by their potential . I also want to do something about this misinformation age that we live in , and to combat the rise of extremism that disfigure too much of our discourse . it be Stanley Baldwin who denounce the newspaper baron for want power without responsibility ; today , too many social medium company have exactly that . this summer ' s spread of online hate and falsehood be a challenge to which this Government will have to rise , just as they rise to the challenge of crack down on the thug who attack our community and our brave police officer . tackle online publisher — that be what they be : publisher , not platform — may sound radical , but in reality radicalism be often just common sense ahead of its time , a reminder that all our right be hard win . what could be more commonsensical than demand that the vote be give to the working class and to woman , more than 100 year ago ? what could be more commonsensical than this railway Bill , give the public control over the service that spend billion of pound of their own money ? what could be more commonsensical than tackle climate change or give town like rochdale more control over their own future — town that do not want a handout , but deserve a fair share of the national resource ? the Pennines be famously the backbone of England , but the people of Rochdale be the backbone of England too . common - sense radicalism , resilience and renewal — those be the watchword of my home town , of this country and of this Government , and I will do my utmost to live up to they . I call Charlie Dewhirst to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Chair , for allow I to catch your eye during this very important debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) on a really excellent maiden speech , and I hope that I can match the very high bar that have be set by hon . member in all part of the House so far today . I start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Greg Knight . I be very fortunate to be follow he ; he be a very well - like and respected Member of this House . his parliamentary career span five decade , and he serve as a Minister in the government of Thatcher , Major and Cameron . he be first the Member for Derby North , from 1983 to 1997 , and excel in the role of Deputy Chief Whip and Minister for Industry . he then return to this place in 2001 for the then constituency of East Yorkshire , which have now become Bridlington and the Wolds , and be re - elect on five separate occasion until his retirement this year . Sir Greg serve for a second stint in the Whips Office during the coalition year and work tirelessly behind the scene on many of Parliament ' s less fashionable Committees . I will always aspire to match his dedication and integrity in public life , but there be one area in which I will never be able to compete with he — that is , of course , the election campaign jingle . for any hon . member who be unaware of his unique impact in this area , I wholeheartedly recommend a quick internet search after today ' s debate . more seriously , Sir Greg be rightly reward with a knighthood for his service to this place , and I place on record my thank for his support and friendship in recent month . I wish both he and Lady Janet a very happy and well - deserve retirement . I now have the unbelievable privilege of represent my home constituency of Bridlington and the Wolds , and it be truly the great honour of my life . I be sure you will agree , Madam Chair , that there be no fine county than Yorkshire , and nowhere showcase it well than the East Riding — from the stunning cliff and world - famous seabird colony at Bempton and Flamborough Head to the golden , sandy beach stretch from Bridlington to Hornsea and the roll hill and picture - book village of the Wolds . each of the four town in the constituency have its own unique appeal . Bridlington be the large shellfish land port in the UK and the lobster capital of Europe . it attract million of visitor every year and be home to many thousand of people who have retire to the area , and I will always fiercely defend our local pensioner . Driffield , my home town , be the capital of the Wolds — or capital of the world , as I think it say on the road sign as a child — and home to one of the large one - day agricultural show in the country . Hornsea boast not only a beautiful coastline but the large freshwater lake in Yorkshire , and Market Weighton be once home to William Bradley , who be believe to be the tall person ever to have live in this country at 7 foot 9 inch tall , and to whom the town pay tribute every year on Giant Bradley Day . I do not wish to test your patience , Madam Chair , by singe the praise of all the many village and hamlet across my constituency , but it would be remiss of I not to mention Nafferton , where I grow up , and Wansford , where I now live . both be home to excellent local pub ; if you do find yourself in the area , I would be delighted to buy you a drink . I hope to repay the faith place in I by the electorate with hard work and diligence . I want to improve access to local health service , increase transport link , ensure access to high - speed broadband for all and address the historical funding formula in education that disadvantage child in rural local authority area . I be one of the few member who can claim to represent more pig than people . agriculture , fishing and tourism be the foundation of our local economy . if I can make our beautiful corner of Yorkshire a well place to live and work before I depart this place , I will , I hope , have do some good . I return to the topic of today ' s debate . privatisation of the railway be necessary because British Rail be not work , either for rail user or the british taxpayer . however , the process of privatise rail operator have not be perfect , in part because franchise operate monopoly ; in that respect , they be no different from the nationalise service that they replace . however , where genuine competition exist , rail privatisation have be a success . on the east coast main line , the government - subsidise franchise , London North Eastern Railway , compete with open access operator hull train , Grand Central and Lumo . that have lead to cheap price for user , high satisfaction and great punctuality , and inter - city service have be extend to new town and city across Yorkshire and the north - east . one of those operator , Hull train , now run two direct service a day between Beverley and London , and I would love to see they extend to Bridlington and Driffield , just up the line in my constituency . however , the legislation put those efficient , non - subsidise open access operator under threat . instead of learn the lesson of those success story and expand they across the network , the Government be slide back to a nostalgic vision of the 1970 , even though public service be in fact inefficient and expensive for rail user and the public purse . the legislation ' s failure to provide specific guarantee to open access operator will mean that there be no incentive for they to invest in new rolling stock or expand their service . we need more open access , not less . minister claim that there be a continued role for open access operator where they add value and capacity to the network , but they will soon be at the mercy of an entirely nationalise infrastructure and provider . do Ministers not realise that a reborn British Rail will work for passenger only if its inter - city service face stiff open access competition across the network ? the east coast main line be a mature and successful test case , and it should be expand . otherwise , what incentive will there be for a new British Rail to deliver cheap and well service ? none , I suspect . the legislation be as rush as it be ideological . the only loser will be rail user and the taxpayer . I call Paul davy to make his maiden speech . I express my gratitude to you , Ms Cummins , for the chance to address the House for the first time . I congratulate all hon . member who have deliver their maiden speech in recent day . their eloquence serve as testament to the remarkable talent in this House , and I be honour to be count among they . I eagerly anticipate their contribution to future debate in the year ahead . I also pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Jason McCartney , who have demonstrate over the past four and a half year a real passion for improve the life of many people in the constituency . today , we discuss the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill . for my constituent , the change can not come soon enough . the Bill will be a cornerstone in kick - start economic growth , unlock opportunity across the country — especially in Colne Valley — and accelerate we towards net zero . we be all shape in many way by our upbringing . my commitment to community be deeply influence by grow up in south Wales . my parent quietly volunteer to drive stroke survivor to the aptly name stroke club , which provide essential respite . for they , it be not charity ; it be just something you do . work in the mine teach I the value of collective support . miner watch out for each other ; their safety depend on it . that sense of community cohesion contribute to proud and resilient community that shape our nation ' s success . we must reignite those bond through community wealth - building initiative , and by retain wealth in local community . that transformation , inspire by the co - operative movement , be pivotal . bear in Wales and shape by the Labour movement , I find purpose through education and global experience during my professional career . now , just a few year later , I stand before the Committee as the newly elect Member for Colne Valley . it be an immense honour , and I be genuinely humble that the people of Colne Valley and Lindley have place their trust in I . the Colne Valley constituency embody the community value instill in I during my Welsh upbringing , value that be evident in its vibrant village and urban centre — Meltham , Lindley , Linthwaite , Slaithwaite , Marsden , Golcar , Honley and Holmfirth — where community ecosystem thrive and people look out for each other through various community group . there be festival and show , such as the Holmfirth art festival , the Honley show , Lindley street festival , Marsden jazz festival and Golcar lily day , and everybody be welcome to contribute , participate , or simply enjoy themselves . there be sport club , such as Honley cricket club , Wooldale wanderer football club and Holmfirth bowl club , that be weave into the fabric of our constituency . of course , there be the local business that serve and employ our community member , include the Picturedrome in Holmfirth , Coopers Yard , Beauty and the Barista , Read , Trojan plastic , and many other . we should not forget the community support group , such as Crossroads in Meltham and the Holmfirth food bank . much of the above only come about due to individual sacrifice and an unwavering belief in our community . develop a strong community spirit be an ongoing effort . it be not something that you simply bottle . it be a living , often delicate entity that require nurture and protection . external support be crucial to put in place the foundational element . for example , we need to empower people through safe , secure , affordable home and decent job . those foundation allow individual to contribute more broadly to their community . in Colne Valley and Lindley , a palpable community spirit thrive — a spirit you can almost touch . that vitality be evident through numerous community group , from EcoHolmes , which focus on build affordable home , to Holmfirth Tech , which provide community space , as well as the Full Life food bank and various faith - base organisation . that be why , 15 year ago , Leah and our two daughter choose to make this area our home . it be why , every single day , we appreciate how lucky we be to live in such an amazing place with such amazing people . of course , I have to mention the excellent beer , which do help . however , as I suggest early , focus beyond our immediate need can be challenging when we be tired , lonely , hungry , distracted , or simply busy . too many of our people be in that position ; they find it impossible to get off the treadmill of look to make end meet . as the Member for Colne Valley , I aspire to be a voice for those who struggle to be hear amid the pressure of the cost of living challenge they face . I aim to be a calm , consistent advocate for all , emphasise the strength that come from unity , and a voice that celebrate the selflessness of those whose altruism form the bedrock of a healthy society . however , I also recognise the importance of be a strong , resilient voice , one that call for well and more effective way of build and retain wealth in our community to benefit everyone . my value stem from the collective , and my unwavering commitment lie with my community . those be the value and principle I will carry with I every day as I go to work in this place for the people of Colne Valley . I call Calum Miller to make his maiden speech . it be an honour to be call to give my maiden speech , Ms Cummins . I start by thank the hon . member for Colne Valley ( Paul Davies ) for his speech . he speak about a spirit in his community that you could touch ; he have a pride in his community that we can feel , and can almost touch as well . he speak about the selflessness of service to the community , a point echo in excellent speech give today by the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) , for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) , for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , and for Bridlington and the Wolds ( Charlie Dewhirst ) . it be my honour to speak in their company . Convention require that I say a few word about my predecessor , and I have be advise that , despite political difference , these should be complimentary and civil . I have try , but the good that I can say be that the view of the last MP for Woodstock belong to a different time — which be quite understandable , since Lord Randolph Churchill hold it until the parliamentary borough of Woodstock be abolish in 1885 . for over a century , Woodstock disappear from the constituency name in this House . meanwhile , the town of Bicester have never previously be name in a constituency . Bicester and Woodstock be a fusion of four previous constituency . I therefore have no immediate predecessor to refer to , but I want to thank Robert Courts , John Howell , my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) and Victoria Prentis for their service to the community in my constituency . like any new Member , I be eager to learn from how other have do thing , so I be grateful to have such a diversity of approach to draw on . I be fortunate to be call on to ask a question in the first Prime Minister ' s Question Time of this Parliament . I speak then about the River Evenlode , but I could equally have refer to the Rivers Cherwell , Dorn , Glyme or Ray . each cut a path through my constituency and each have to carry its unfair share of pollutant from Thames Water ' s sewage spill . tackle the pollution of our river and waterway be a common concern among my constituent during the election campaign , and I welcome the Prime Minister ' s undertake to work across party to address this scandal . alongside our waterway , the railway be significant feature of my constituency . we have no few than seven station . to address the subject of this afternoon ' s debate , at each you will find passenger keen to see improvement . the traveller through Bicester North bemoan the age of the roll stock , which break down far too often , and the shorten train with their inadequate seating . constituent near Bicester Village be deeply concerned about the future closure of the London Road level crossing , which would cut off those live in south - east Bicester from the rest of the town . I hope the Rail Minister , to whom I have write , will respond positively to my request to ensure that East West Rail bring forward sufficient funding for alternative crossing for all user . another feature of my constituency be the rapid propose growth of town and village , under plan adopt by the last government and support by conservative local council in 2017 . Bicester have already see tremendous growth . a similar scale of development be plan for Eynsham and the wide Kidlington area , include Begbroke and Yarnton . as this government prepare for an increase in housing provision , the lesson from area like those in my constituency must be learn . my constituent understand the need for more home for local resident , and especially for those who can not access social housing , but they want to know that sufficient infrastructure will accompany new home . I be talk about not just improvement to the hard engineering for travel , grid connection , sewage and other utility , but also the social infrastructure of school , GP surgery , dispense chemist and NHS dentist , as well as community , youth and sport centre . we must make sure that these service be fund and deliver before new home be release . I have live in the constituency for over 12 year , and my wife and I have raise our four child there . they attend local school and be active in local sport club . long before I run for this election , they ensure that I know the future constituency well by drag I to most of the sport ground and sport hall that it contain . I owe my place to the many voter who put I here , but I would not be here without the steadfast support of my family , and I be so pleased that they be here today . for some , that support have come with encouragement ; for other , it come with occasional embarrassment about my endeavour . but from all , it have come with love , affection , and a willingness to keep I ground through the occasional well - deserve put - down . I be truly grateful to they and hope that they know how much I appreciate their support . my constituency contain a vibrant mix of community beyond its two town . famously , Kidlington contend to be the large village in England , with its population of over 13 , 000 . when the parish council suggest in 1987 that it be a town , irate resident force it to back down and reinstate village status . that do not , however , explain why group of Chinese Harry Potter fan be spot take photo outside suburban home in the village in 2016 . despite extensive search , I never find the Dursleys of Privet Drive on the electoral roll . one of the great pleasure of represent this area be travel across its stunning countryside and discover the passion for history , environment and community that burn in each town and village . I can not do justice to that diversity today , but I say thank you to the thousand of constituent who contribute to their community as town and parish councillor , school governor , village f ê te organiser , wildlife champion , Royal British Legion fundraiser , youth sport coach , or food bank collector , and in many other role besides . every week , as I visit organisation in the constituency , I be inspire by the selfless action of those who put community first and build strong relationship , one freely give hour at a time . it be that sense of community and of what we can do for each other that bring I here today . from volunteer as a school governor , I come to see how both the setting and implementation of national policy have deep local impact . I become a county councillor in 2021 and see up close how local government have be hollow out by national funding decision that respect neither the role that local authority play in deliver critical service , nor the unique insight they hold at local level about the need of their resident . those experience put I on the path towards stand for election , and it be a huge honour now to be a Member of this House . I hope that during my time here I can serve my community with the same selflessness and energy show by so many of my constituent . I call Graeme Downie to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Chair . I be delighted to make my maiden speech today as the first MP for the new constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar . it be a privilege to follow the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , and I would like to congratulate all mp who have make such fantastic and powerful maiden speech this afternoon . with such a high turnover of mps , the calibre of the speech I have hear since the election should give everyone a sense of optimism about the future and what this Parliament can achieve . I believe I must start my speech with a particular tribute , and so I shall . they be know for be colourful and preen , strut around like they own the place , and expect to be wait on hand and foot by a fantastic team of underpaid and overworked staff . they demand honour , and they disappear without permission whenever the mood take they . in the past century , their name have include Andrew , Malcolm and Angus , and I be even tell that some individual have be find in bush in a horrible state . no , these be not my honourable predecessor . they be not even Members of the other place . instead , they be the name of just some of the peacock that reside in the beautiful surrounding of the Pittencrieff Park in Dunfermline , and that only last week be award the freedom of the city . I be sure that my immediate predecessor for the seat that now make up the constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar will not object to be upstage by the peacock , but I would like to place on record my thank to both Douglas Chapman , the Member for Dunfermline and West Fife from 2015 until retire prior to the election , and John Nicolson , the Member for Ochil and South Perthshire . Douglas and John work hard on behalf of their constituent in the good and true tradition of public service , and I wish they well . I would also like to thank my immediate predecessor from the Labour party , Thomas Docherty . Thomas be still know by many in this House , and we should remain grateful to he for first propose the idea of recall mps , although I suspect that gratitude be perhaps feel by I and some of my colleague rather than by some of the Members opposite . my " Aww , Dad " sense of humour be something I be accuse of have long before I have child , and where well than a debate on railway to put some of that reputation to the test . so I will steam ahead with my remark and do my utmost to stay on track , hope to reach my destination on time and not come up against the buffer of your patience , Madam Chair . I have never serve in the armed force , but I be raise in a family that do . much of the sense of public service that I hope to bring to my contribution to this House be root in the value of the member of my family who have do so . my grandma , Margaret Delworth , be a plotter for the RAF during the battle of Britain , with the air raid siren next to she play a part in the deafness she suffer later in life . my grandpa serve in the Royal Signals in campaign in north Africa , Italy , include at Monte Cassino , and later with the UN in Korea . my parent , Jim and Cathy , be both member of the Royal Observer Corps — indeed , that be where they meet — and I be very proud that they be in the Public Gallery today . when I be six , my parent take what I now realise must have be an incredibly brave decision : to move our family to Berlin , where we live on RAF Gatow for three and a half year . many of my early memory be from there , and it have shape the rest of my life : I play football with FC Westend , a german club base nearby ; the death of Rudolf Hess be historic but mean I get a day off school ; and the defection of a soviet general see my sister lock in the cellar of an air traffic control tower for hour — Helen have always be a very supportive old sister , but I would be lie if I say that there have not be time when I wish she have be leave there just a little long . but it be an early November morning in 1989 that truly shape my politic . I be wake at 2 am by my dad , who sit I down in front of a german tv channel and proclaim , " this be history . " I watch as ten of thousand of people scale the Berlin wall , herald the beginning of the end of the cold war and move towards a united Germany . the event of 1989 teach I that oppression be not , can not and never will be either acceptable or effective , and neither should it be tolerate . I want to take this opportunity to add to the sentiment across this House that the UK will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take to fight the aggression of Vladimir Putin . he might hold the honorific of " president " , but a dictator be a dictator , as many before have warn from these Benches . it be that history — that privilege of observe good triumphing — that make I immensely proud to be serve the constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar . the area have a proud military history and , with the Royal Navy base HMS Caledonia , that continue to this day . the firth of Forth be a regular home to the grand fleet , and throughout the 20th and 21st century the ship and sailor that protect we then and continue today have call that part of west Fife their home . this allow I to mention Rachel Squire , who some might remember be the Member of Parliament for Dunfermline and West Fife before her sad death in 2006 . she lead the successful battle to save the dockyard at Rosyth , which remain a vital and major asset to the local economy and our community . I visit the dockyard just last week to see the progress on the construction of the first two Type 31 frigate and be impress by the talented and dedicated workforce who build and maintain the warship that keep our country safe . as the world continue to look to Britain for leadership and security , we must never forget the community and worker who be the backbone of a deterrent and strength that so many depend on . I be afraid I will now return to the bad pun as we ride the rail again from Rosyth to Dunfermline , Scotland ' s ancient capital . close to Pittencrieff Park and the preen peacock we find Dunfermline abbey , the rest place of Scotland ' s king and queen , include Robert the Bruce , and the birthplace of Charles I . close by be the birthplace of Andrew Carnegie , the great scottish businessman and philanthropist , who value and promote industry , innovation and education with a global view of Scotland and the UK . his legacy of library and education be strongly feel in Dunfermline and around the world , and nowhere more so than in the United States , in institution such as Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh . however , a local historian tell I that after Andrew ' s death his widow employ a certain Mary Anne MacLeod as a domestic servant in her home in New York — answer on a red baseball cap for why I might not want to dwell on that connection too much . as I continue my journey , poor rural transport sadly mean that a replacement bus service be require as I take we to Dollar , a beautiful village at the foot of the Ochil hill . I hold an excellent surgery there this weekend and I be very tempt to return this weekend for the village ' s annual beer festival — I note that beer have be a theme in many of the maiden speech we have hear since the election . dollar be most famous for Dollar academy , and despite cordial disagreement over certain aspect of the Labour party manifesto , I be very grateful for the excellent work it do with the local community and school in the area to share its learning and experience . travel back towards Dunfermline , we will find the railway track once again . these track transport coal from the mine in nearby village such as Oakley , Comrie , Valleyfield , Saline and Steelend , and be more recently use by the former Longannet coal power station near Kincardine . as the Member for a constituency with a proud history of mining , I be delighted to stand on a manifesto that will end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme . at this point , I will mention just one more of my predecessor , Gordon Brown , who be elect as the Member for Dunfermline East in 1983 . in prepare my speech today , I read his incredible first contribution to this House . I urge other to do the same , as it be a powerful speech focus on the need to tackle unemployment . with this new Labour Government invest in green job , manufacturing and infrastructure , we will have the opportunity to make the constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar and site such as Longannet driver of the Fife , Scottish and UK economy once again , tackle unemployment by establish new industry and expertise that will help the global fight against climate change . I begin this speech by talk about the contribution of family and my optimism for the future , and I will begin wind up in the same vein . first , I want to take a moment to thank my wife , Jen . it be very simple : without her love and support , I would not be stand here today . we have hear about the importance of family in maiden speech from member from all part of the House . all member of this House will be aim to make even the small contribution to create a well community , a well country and a well world for our own family and future generation . I want my two daughter , Hannah and Eilidh , and all child , regardless of where and how they start their life , to be able to grow up in a world where the opportunity exist for their own aspiration and ambition to be meet , nurture , support and fulfil . that be something we have hear powerfully in speech this afternoon . as the Dunfermline - bear author Iain Banks write , " the future remain malleable and retain the possibility of change " . those be wise word that I will try to remember as I work across the House to create that well future . I call Rebecca Smith to make her maiden speech . it be a pleasure to follow the maiden speech of the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) . I be especially interested in his recollection of the fall of the Berlin wall in 1989 , which be also one of my early political memory , although I be obviously on the other side of the House as a result . I be interested in his reference to Monte Cassino , which might make sense later on in my speech . I be incredibly grateful to the people of South West Devon , who put their trust in I on 4 July , elect I to serve they here in Parliament . start out in this place just a few short week ago , it be almost a quarter of a century to the day since I first set foot in Parliament . forgive the clich é , but if someone have tell the 18 - year - old I , who be spend a week ' s work experience with the MP for South West Devon , Sir Gary Streeter , that one day I would follow in his actual footstep , I would not have believe they . everybody I have meet since enter this place who know my predecessor tell I that I have big shoe to fill . for some , that might seem daunt . after all , he be a size 10 and I be a mere size 4 . however , know Sir Gary as I do — in fact , have know he since we first meet at a Kylie Minogue concert in 1991 , where we both enjoy her rendition of " the Loco - Motion " — I be honour to follow in his footstep and the legacy he have leave . after 32 year as a Member of Parliament , Sir Gary ' s legacy be one of kindness , integrity and a deep commitment to the people of South West Devon . I know that there be member on both side of the House , past and present , who appreciate his wisdom over the year . it be something that he will tell you come from his deep christian faith . I be grateful that I still have access to that wisdom , give that he be now one of my constituent and that I also share his faith . unsurprisingly , although Sir Gary achieve a huge amount for our constituent , there be issue affect South West Devon today ; long - term battle that he fight and that remain in need of a victory . one such issue relate to our great Western Railway line through Devon . today ' s debate therefore provide the perfect opportunity to commit myself to the fight for a well railway service to the far reach of Devon and the south - west . follow the devastating flood at Dawlish in 2014 , the previous Government do much to safeguard the line through Devon . the sight of a railway track suspend in mid - air with nothing between it and the sea be not easily forget . I will therefore be campaign cross - party alongside colleague to see the new Government commit to complete the remedial work at Dawlish . they must also ensure that forthcoming hs2 work at Old Oak Common in London do not hamper the progress make on our journey time between London and the south - west . the main line through Devon do not just take holidaymaker to our beautiful county ; it be vital for those who live and work there too . the west side of Plymouth be serve effectively by several small station , but to the east , in my constituency , there be very few option for train travel between Plymouth and Totnes , some 30 minute away . indeed , the current level of service make a mockery of the exist " Park and ride by train " that be advertise as people drive down the A38 . I will therefore continue to fight for CrossCountry train — not just great Western Railway service — to call at Ivybridge station . as the population of that town and of nearby Sherford grow , have adequate access to mainline train service close than Plymouth , Totnes — or , in some case , Tiverton Parkway — be essential . to see the full economic benefit of the Plymouth and South Devon freeport , with its key site at Langage and Sherford , we must see the delivery of a metro railway link Plymouth with Tavistock and Ivybridge , include a stop in Plympton . that would also enhance connectivity for the dartmoor village , which be now a welcome part of South West Devon follow the recent parliamentary boundary change . the previous Government ' s plan to reopen the line between Plymouth and Tavistock be critical to deliver that metro service . I therefore call on the new Government to push forward with that proposal and enable we to get the metro scheme off the ground . I can only hope that the new Government be as commit to support those much - need improvement in South West Devon as they be to the new legislation that we be hastily debate today : a Bill that seem to indicate ideological time travel back to the nationalise railway system of the past and a mistaken belief that state - run institution be the answer to all our woe . our railway system need to drive forward into the middle of the 21st century , not creep backwards to the 1970 . in the case of South West Devon , that mean the difference between reach our full potential and miss the mark . I would waste the opportunity to extol the virtue of South West Devon far if I leave thing there . yes , transport be a big issue locally , whether that be about the need for a bus route between Plymstock and Plympton , cycle path in the South Hams that do not require mountaineering experience to navigate , or improve junction on and off the A38 at Lee Mill , but I hope I will be allow just a few moment to introduce hon . member more fully to South West Devon . South West Devon have to be one of the most unique constituency in the country . I challenge hon . member to name another constituency anywhere with our combination of urban and rural , moorland and coastal community . it combine the city suburb of Plymouth — the ancient stannary town of Plympton , and Plymstock , with its rich maritime history — with the rural South Hams and Dartmoor national park . we have the thriving town of Ivybridge , the inland and coastal village and farm of the South Hams , the historic country estate of Flete and Maristow , the village on the edge of the Tamar valley , and rugge dartmoor farm and village . South West Devon be home to the new town of Sherford , the soon - to - expand community of Woolwell and Royal Marines 42 Commando at Bickleigh barrack . there be so much history , so much beauty and so many wonderful and unique community — indeed , too many to list here and be finish by the Adjournment , hon . member will be pleased to hear . life have deal I experience that have turn into passion that I be determined to build on here in Parliament . I have spend the last six year work for the Commonwealth War Graves Commission — hence the comment on Monte Cassino . from travel around the south - west , share the story of the man and woman of the Commonwealth , whom the commission commemorate across the world , I have develop a lifelong passion for this wonderful organisation and the importance of keep alive the story of those who fall . I know that all hon . member have recently hear from the commission about those commemorate in their constituency , and I encourage they to get in touch with their regional public engagement co - ordinator if they would like to know more . when I be grow up , my parent , who be in the Gallery today , offer up their home as foster parent . that experience have leave I with a deep interest in the care system and how we enable care - experience young people to have the future they deserve . while there be those in this place with far more experience in the field than I , my interest span over two decade , and I be determined to be a voice for those young people . finally , have start my elect career in local government , I bring with I experience of a range of issue include work to tackle violence against woman and girl . enable woman and girl to feel safe and be safe in their community , and in my community in South West Devon , be a long - term challenge . yet , have chair the Plymouth violence against woman and girl commission and see the cross - party determination to deliver on it in this place , I believe that we will see the societal change that we fight for . in 1919 , Plymouth , which make up a significant proportion of my constituency and be my home city , see its Member of Parliament , Nancy Astor , become the first female to take a seat in the House of Commons . since then , a female MP have represent at least a part of Plymouth for all but 11 year . the long gap in female mps be from 2017 to 2024 . I be delighted to have bring an end to the drought , pick up the baton of Plymouth ' s six former female mps and also become the first woman in South West Devon . Nancy Astor herself say in her maiden speech just over 100 year ago : " hon . member … should not be frightened of what Plymouth send out into the world . after all , I suppose when Drake and Raleigh want to set out on their venturesome career , some cautious person say , ' do not do it ; it have never be try before … ' but , on the whole , the world be all the well for those venturesome and courageous west country people , and I would like to say that I be quite certain that the woman of the whole world will not forget that it be the fight man of Devon who dare to send the first woman to represent woman in the Mother of Parliaments . " — [ Official Report , 24 February 1920 ; Vol . 125 , c . 1624 . ] fortunately , I be venture out from Plymouth in the well - wear footstep of the woman and man who have go before I , buoy by the courage of the people of South West Devon — man and woman who vote to send I to this , the mother of all Parliaments , to fight for they and our special part of Devon . I call Jen Craft to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Chair . it be the honour of my life to address this House as the Member of Parliament for Thurrock , my home , and to speak in this important debate on the future of our railway . I congratulate the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) on her passionate speech , which be infuse with pride for the community she serve and a strong commitment to her new role , particularly to help the people of Dawlish to rebuild after the flooding and to speak up for those who have experience the care system . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) on such a brilliant speech , which be infuse with peacock and train pun , which I will not try to outdo . I will steam ahead , get back on track and diesel - power on with the main body of my speech ! I would like to begin by talk a little about my predecessor , Jackie Doyle - Price . although our politic be different , she serve our community for 14 year and be a vocal campaigner against violence towards woman and girl , both in this country and internationally . she highlight the role that rape and sexual violence play as a weapon of war , and the lifelong impact that these appalling crime have on woman and girl here in the UK . she be a strong supporter of SERICC , the groundbreake rape and abuse service base in my constituency , which find she a listening ear and a vocal advocate for its work . I will ensure that I will carry on that relationship and continue that work . I would also like to thank the former Member of Parliament for Barking , Margaret Hodge , who give I my first job in politic and teach a newly graduate , idealistic young woman that politic be more often than not about who get the pothole fill , the grass verge cut and people ' s individual problem solve than the big issue of the day . moreover , she teach I that be a visible , vocal advocate for one ' s constituent be the fundamental job of be an MP . in do so , she defeat the extremist of the British National party by demonstrate that politic can be a force for good — work that I be extremely proud to play a part in at the time , and something that I will continue to take forward , to counter the threat from extremism and populism that our community face today . she have also show kindness and support as I , like many other who be new in this House , struggle to navigate the early day of this unique role . it be an incredible privilege to have the honour of represent my home in this place . Thurrock have have representation from across this House since its creation in 1945 , but this be the first time that someone bear there have address the House as its Member of Parliament . I be that much unfairly malign of creature — a true Essex girl . I prefer Dr . Martens to white stiletto , but I be extremely proud of the county of my birth and the history of our community and the people who live there . Thurrock have a fight spirit , have play an important role in the decoy operation prior to the Normandy landing in the second world war . it provide a muster and departure point for those leave to take part in the D - day operation . several hundred year early , Tilbury be where Queen Elizabeth I rally her troop before fight the spanish armada , famously declare : " I know I have the body of a weak and feeble woman ; but I have the heart and stomach of a king , and of a king of England too " . the Empire Windrush land at Tilbury dock in 1948 , bring those who answer the call to help restore and rebuild our country after the second world war . a permanent exhibition , " tilbury bridge walkway of memory " , be a move testimony to those who come . unfortunately , it be currently close as a side effect of the Tilbury to gravesend ferry cease to operate for the first time in nearly 600 year , something my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) and I be determined to rectify . far down the river , we can find the Purfleet heritage centre which , among its extensive collection of local military memorabilia , also host an exhibition honour the contribution of the Gurkha regiment to our armed force , reflect the significant Gurkha and nepalese community who have choose to make Thurrock their home . the museum be well worth a visit , although I would take with a pinch of salt anything one of the volunteer guide say about the etymology of Purfleet and its deriving from an exclamation of Elizabeth I , " my poor fleet " . the town of Tilbury and Purfleet be just two of the many that make up Thurrock . Aveley , Ockendon , Stifford Clays and Chafford Hundred all have their story to tell . one reason I be so pleased to be make my maiden speech today as part of the debate on the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill be that one of the unite factor of all of these town be the role they play as key commuter location for job in the City of London and the dockland — journey that be primarily make use the rail network . the public ownership of our railway , deliver a well service and well value for taxpayer ' money , will make a daily difference to the life of many of my constituent , and , indeed , to many of my friend and family . I would not be here without the support of many people , but in particular my family : my child , my mum and dad , my husband Ali — a strong or kind partner you would struggle to find — and my in - law Mike and Sue . it really do take a village . I would like to share my own personal story about my motivation for be here , beyond the love of my community and my desire to serve . almost seven year ago , I find out that the baby I be carry have down ' s syndrome — a rug - pull , life - alter moment which I do not realise , but wish I have , would be the making of my family and the start of a truly incredible journey . as the actress Sally Phillips say , the special educational need and disability parent club be the one no one want to be in , but once you be there you realise that all the good people be there . however , the world do not work for family like mine . it do not work for child like mine , and it do not work for people like I and my daughter . when I receive her diagnosis , I make she a promise that I would do everything I could to make her life easy . little do I realise that it would lead I here . I be here to serve my community , to speak up for the home that I love and the people who live there . if by be here I can make a difference to the life of child and family such as mine , I will consider it a job well do , however long my constituent may opt to keep I . I speak in support of amendment 20 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , which would create an independent body to ensure that scrutiny and transparency be at the heart of the public service train operating contract the Government propose to award . with the end of competitive tendering of franchise contract , which historically , despite their flaw , have contribute to some improvement to cost control and passenger growth , it will at least ensure that quality and accountability be present in the process , and will be important . I welcome the Government ' s desire to improve our railway , but it be important that there be accountability and to remember that public ownership and direction have historically cause problem as well as improvement . although the majority of current train operating contract be in the private sector , since the pandemic they have be subject to even more significant direction and sometimes micromanagement by the Government than before . my journey into London today show how the public versus private debate be not all that be need to improve our railway . at Didcot Parkway this morning , only one out of three ticket office be work and two out of four ticket window be close . that lead I to miss train number one as a result of private sector problem , and I be prevent from catch the next couple of train as a result of public sector problem , namely Network Rail signal problem . again , the ideology be less important than the delivery . in Oxfordshire , there be many example of action with negative effect that have be take with at least partial public sector approval or sign - off . they include the withdrawal of high - speed train from Great Western Railway , lead to inter - city train with few carriage elsewhere ; CrossCountry ' s current temporary timetable , lead to major service gap through Oxford , particularly in the evening peak period , which I be pleased to say the Secretary of State have heavily criticise ; and timetable cut on Chiltern Railways since the pandemic , combine with rolling - stock reliability problem that contribute to overcrowding . ensure that the good - quality public sector arrangement be in place will make it easy for the Government to focus on the investment that our railway need , so that it can play its full part in the economic transformation that our country deserve . example of propose beneficial project in Oxfordshire include a new station at Grove , a new Oxford to Witney railway , the completion of East West Rail to Cambridge , Didcot to Oxford electrification , passenger train on Oxford ' s Cowley branch , and — this be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) — an effective solution for the impact on local traffic of the Bicester London Road level crossing . I agree with everything that my hon . friend be say , and I thank he for give way . I just want to congratulate the hon . member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) on her maiden speech . we should not forget that there be so many new member . it be such a wonderful speech , and I wish the hon . Lady , and her daughter , all the good on her journey . I be sure that my hon . friend will want to mention her speech at the end of his own . my hon . friend be absolutely correct , and I be sorry I omit to do that early . the passion express by the hon . member for Thurrock and her tribute to her constituency be very clear , and it be touch and move to hear about her child and her family . I know that she will be a great champion for special educational need and disability provision . let I end by say that I hope the Government will extend their passion for public ownership to the investment in rail infrastructure that we in Oxfordshire need , and from which , as many other member have say , the rest of the country will benefit . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) on her maiden speech . I be not sure I can compete with one that range from Essex girl to Elizabeth I , but I will do my good . it be an incredible honour to stand here today as the newly elect Member of Parliament for Pendle and Clitheroe , where I grow up ; the place that make I . as the Member for a significantly redrawn constituency , I want to begin by pay tribute to both my predecessor , Andrew Stephenson on the pendle side and Nigel Evans on the Clitheroe side . Andrew Stephenson , most recently a Health Minister follow a number of other Government role , be a widely respected constituency MP who work hard for Pendle for 14 year . Nigel Evans be a parliamentarian for 32 year who love work in this place . he serve as its Deputy Speaker in two spell , and bring great distinction to his role . I wish they both well for the future . I also want to pay tribute to two of my labour predecessor , Gordon Prentice and Sydney Silverman . Gordon be the Labour MP for Pendle from 1992 to 2010 ; he be a principled , independent - minded MP , whose work on " right to roam " legislation improve access to our countryside for all . Sydney Silverman , MP for the predecessor seat of Nelson and Colne for 33 year , stand as a true giant of parliamentary history for his leadership in the campaign to abolish capital punishment . it be an honour to follow in the footstep of two man who fight so passionately for justice and human dignity . Pendle and Clitheroe be an area that have a rich history , stunning natural beauty , and a strong sense of community spirit . from Barnoldswick , Barrowford , Clitheroe , Colne , Earby , Nelson , and Whalley to our village that stretch to the edge of the Ribble Valley , the Pennines and the Yorkshire Dales , every part of the constituency have its own unique identity . at its centre stand Pendle Hill , a landmark that unite we , dominate the landscape on both side of this new constituency . Pendle Hill be not just famous for its witch trial , though they often steal the spotlight . it have also be a source of inspiration for radical and non - conformist who have leave their mark on history . it be on Pendle Hill that George Fox experience the vision that lead to the founding of the Quakers . we can also claim Katharine Bruce Glasier , a formidable christian socialist and found member of the Independent Labour party , who live in Earby and champion the right of work people . then there be Selina Cooper , a hero of the suffrage movement , who emerge from work in the mill from the age of 12 to lead the charge for woman ' s right . Pendle be a powerhouse of the industrial revolution , drive by its iconic cotton mill , and the same grit and ingenuity that see our mill thrive continue today in world - class engineering firm such as Hope Technology . its track bike , design and manufacture in Barnoldswick , be ride by Team GB to break a world record three time and secure a gold medal at this year ' s olympic game . but while we celebrate our past and present achievement , we must face the challenge of today . Pendle have the high rate of child poverty in the entire country , so I will be focus on the material need of ordinary people in my constituency : reduce the cost of living , rebuild our public service , revitalise our high street and support our local business to create good , meaningful job . I will champion our local farmer so that we can boost food security and sustain the rural economy that form an important part of my constituency . I want to touch on my background as a former police inspector . we see the good of british police just a few week ago . in the face of violent disorder aim directly at they , our officer show great courage , professionalism and restraint . they work long , hot shift in full riot gear — many on their cancel day off — with thousand of other officer redeploy at a moment ' s notice to plug the gap in day - to - day policing . I want to express my deep gratitude to Lancashire police , and to thousand of my former colleague nationwide , for their service to our country . where other seem intent on undermine our police , I look forward to be an outspoken advocate for police in Parliament . the demand on policing have grow dramatically in recent decade , with increase reporting of domestic abuse , sexual offence and fraud , while policing have also feel the strain of other public service that have be run down and be not fit for purpose : the criminal justice system , mental health service and child ' s care . as we rebuild our public service — and we will — we need to simplify the policing mission , which have become blur and , frankly , too broad . let we decide what we really want from our police , which mean decide what we do not want our police to do , and where policing stop and other public service be well place to step in . if we can provide that clarity of purpose for our officer , we can create a well police service that be more focused on prevent and investigate crime . I be delighted to be make my maiden speech during a debate on take the railway into public ownership , and I commend my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary for the speed with which she have set to work in her new office . but on the subject of speed , in my constituency , the Clitheroe to Manchester train take an hour and 20 minute to travel a mere 30 mile . the Colne to Preston train take an hour and 15 minute to travel just 25 mile . both offer one diesel train per hour , and they be totally unreliable . while public ownership be by no mean a cure - all , this Bill be a crucial first step in create a reliable , well - integrate railway that serve every part of our country . regional inequality in our country be stark , and we need serious investment in infrastructure , such as by reinstate the short rail link between Colne in Lancashire and Skipton in Yorkshire , if we be to see small town in the north of England thrive and prosper . I believe that public service should be in public ownership , and the railway be no different , so I be delighted to support this Bill . in conclusion , let I finish by say to every one of my constituent in Pendle and Clitheroe : whether you vote for I or not , I will be your champion . I will fight for you . it be my privilege to serve you . I call David Smith to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Chair . it be a real honour and privilege to be able to make my maiden speech today , as the House debate the role of our railway . before I continue , I must give credit to all those who have give their maiden speech today . it be quite a daunting prospect to follow they all . I must comment on a few of the amazing journey that have bring people here . I think of my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) and the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) ; it be quite inspiring to hear their story . I must also comment on the speech of the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , as we be mutual friend of Sir Gary Streeter . it must have be quite a sight to see he do the loco - motion all those year ago . it be of special importance to I to talk in the debate today on the role of our railway . the east coast main line go right through my constituency . in fact , I think about half of it do , because we be the third large constituency in England , with station in Morpeth , Alnmouth and Berwick . today we be debate the Government ' s plan , over time , to put the railway back into public ownership , or as some might say , into public service . that be really what I want to address today — the idea and ideal of public service . all of we be here to serve the public , but we can only serve here because of the people who have go before we , the people who support we , and of course the people who vote for we . so first , my thank must go to the people of North Northumberland , include those who vote Labour for the first time . indeed , whether they vote for I or not , I will serve they to the good of my ability . my thank also go to my family — first and foremost my wife , daughter and son , who be my bedrock and whose patience with I be frankly astonishing , but also to the generation that have go before . when I think about public service , I think of my grandparent ' world war two generation . we have already hear about Monte Cassino a couple of time . well , my grandfather fight at Monte Cassino , El Alamein and elsewhere , and it would have be beyond his wild dream that his grandson would one day be stand here . speak of those who have go before in public service , I must recognise the great work of my predecessor as member of Parliament for what be now North Northumberland . first , those two political pea in a pod , the right hon . former Member for Berwick - upon - Tweed , Anne - Marie Trevelyan , and my hon . friend the former Member for Wansbeck , now the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) . as a former miner and engineer , my hon . friend will have a great interest in the success of the railway , and he have also serve his constituent with great distinction and tenacity for many year now . Anne - Marie Trevelyan ' s public service include many significant role in government , include Secretary of State for Transport , and I would like to thank she for her graciousness in the handover of the constituency casework . I must also mention Lord Beith . although he retire from this place in 2015 , he be still hold in very high regard in Northumberland for his nearly 42 year of service . if I can earn just a small portion of the respect that he garner , I will consider myself fortunate . so now I pick up the baton , and I confess that one of the first thing I check , with a name as distinctive as my own , be whether I be the only David Smith MP elect on 4 July . imagine my surprise and disappointment , then , when on the follow day I receive a congratulatory email from a Labour Member of Parliament call David Smith . thankfully , that particular David Smith MP be a member of the Australian Parliament . I be , for now at least , the only David Smith in this place . it be a convention for member to try and mention every settlement in their constituency when give their maiden speech . I have mention that mine be the third large in England , so that may be a challenge . it be also traditional for member of this place to make compete claim about how theirs be the most beautiful constituency in the land , so I be pleased to be able to put that debate to bed . surely it be a certainty that the land of Bamburgh and Warkworth castle , of Druridge bay and Holy Island , of Rothbury , Wooler and the Cheviot hill and of the historic county town of Berwick , Alnwick and Morpeth be the most beautiful in England . the number of member who have holiday in my constituency seem to confirm my conclusion . I be sure that those who have travel on the east coast main line through my constituency , along our magnificent coastline , will agree . North Northumberland be not only beautiful , but have produce and give a home to some of the most notable public servant in british history . who can look past the role that Northumberland play in the establishment of early british Christianity ? the northumbrian saint , especially Cuthbert and Aidan , be renowned for their faith , wisdom , compassion and miracle , even if today , at least accord to my daughter , the most famous North Northumberland resident with magical power be a certain Mr Harry Potter . Emily Wilding Davison , the suffragette from Morpeth , be another North Northumbrian who fight for what be right . Emily famously hide herself in a broom cupboard here in Parliament on the night of the 1911 census so that she could record her address as the House of Commons to confound those who would deny woman the right to vote . I be delighted to follow in her footstep , and those of William Beveridge , the MP for Berwick - upon - Tweed who author the eponymous Beveridge report , which serve as the basis for that great innovation , the welfare state introduce by the Labour Government in 1945 . what would so many of we do without it ? North Northumberland be also home to vibrant and hard - work community that serve in their own way . whether it be those in the fishery of amble and Seahouses , the farmer work the land across the constituency from Alwinton to Norham to keep we feed , or the serviceman and woman at RAF Boulmer who protect the UK ' s airspace , the people of North Northumberland rightly take great pride in the work of their hand , in the county that they call home , and in the contribution that they make to the common good . nowhere be that more true than in the grand town of Berwick - upon - Tweed , with its historic wall and majestic bridge , one of which , the Royal Border bridge , serve the east coast main line . my particular favourite , though , be the Union chain bridge , for all that it represent for the Union between Scotland and England . we truly have cross - border life in North Northumberland . today we have a choice to build either wall or bridge across that border , and I choose to be a bridge builder . the truth be that when it come to transport infrastructure , and even public service , we have a choice . will we use it for private benefit or for the common good ? for I , the common good must be paramount . we be of equal value by virtue of our humanity , but not all of we have the same opportunity , the same start in life or the same challenge to overcome . many community in my constituency feel left behind , and many feel out of sight and out of mind . see the humanity in each other be a proactive choice . at time over the summer , some people in our country choose to ignore the humanity of other , with terrible consequence . one of the most famous piece of literature in our country ' s history , a national treasure , come from my constituency : the Lindisfarne gospel . how good it would be if they could return home to Holy Island one day , perhaps on the east coast main line . as beautiful as their calligraphy be , to I their primary value come in the wisdom they contain and the story they tell . as I set out on the task of be a Member of Parliament , my thought turn to the wisdom of another part of the good book . proverb , chapter 31 , say : " speak up for those who can not speak for themselves , for the right of all who be destitute . speak up and judge fairly ; defend the right of the poor and needy . " those be wise word for all with a heart for public service , especially those of we who call ourselves parliamentarian . as for I , they will be the axiom by which I expect my public service to be judge , however long I remain in this place . I call Katrina Murray to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Chair , for call I to speak in this debate on public ownership of the railway . as a lifelong trade unionist who have spend the last 20 year campaign to bring public service back from the private sector , this issue be understandably close to my heart . I congratulate all the other member who have make their maiden speech today . New Members from across the House have show their passion and their reason for be here . I very much appreciate the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) for reason that may become apparent . it be a great honour to be the first Member of Parliament for the new constituency of Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch . my thank go to the people of the community that make up the constituency for place their trust in I . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Stuart C . McDonald , who be MP for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East for the last nine year . it be appropriate that I be make my maiden speech as the ballot for private member ' Bills take place in the Lobby , because the progression into law of his private Member ' s Bill , protect the right of parent of premature baby , show that we can all make a difference when we work together in the House . as Stuart C . McDonald say in his maiden speech , the former Member for Glasgow South be also call Stewart McDonald , and there continue to be significant confusion . many member may not be aware — well , the hon . member for Mid Dunbartonshire ( Susan Murray ) will know — that there be a far complicate factor locally , in that East Dunbartonshire council ' s Kirkintilloch East and North and Twechar ward be very ably represent by Councillor Stewart MacDonald . I thank all of they for the commitment that they have show to their community . I wish to thank a further predecessor , Rosemary McKenna . she serve initially as Member for Cumbernauld and Kilsyth , then as Member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East , from 1997 to 2010 . when I be a young woman activist in the Scottish Labour party , Rosemary be one of the big influence on I that eventually bring I to this place . she be one of the people who sit I down and say , " maybe you should think about stand . " the new constituency of Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch run from the boundary of Glasgow in Millerston to the boundary with Falkirk at Castlecary , and be bisect by the M80 motorway . it be serve by Croy station on the main Glasgow to Edinburgh express railway line , with Stepps , Greenfaulds and cumbernauld be on the local line from Glasgow . rail service be vital in a constituency where people travel to work . Cumbernauld be designate a new town in 1955 , but it have a very rich history . it include Cumbernauld village and its weaver , and Condorrat , and the rich farmland between the Campsie hill to the north and the Luggie water to the south . there have be settlement there since before roman time . the northern boundary of Roman Britain , the Antonine wall , run through the constituency . the Bar Hill fort , garrison by people from across ancient Europe and the middle east , which be establish to protect the wall , be still accessible from Twechar . evidence of the mining history of the constituency remain strong . there be the Kilsyth Victoria cottage hospital , one of the place in the constituency where I first go to work ; the remnant of the miner ' row , which be now farm outhouse ; and the vast swathe of new housing build on former colliery land in Cardowan , Chryston , Kilsyth and Twechar . it would take a far braver woman than I to make comment about football in the week lead up to or follow an Old Firm game . cumbernauld ' s most famous outing on film be in the 1980 Bill Forsyth classic , " Gregory ' s Girl " . for those who be not familiar with the film , it centre around a school football team who experience a significant improvement in form when one of the girl , Dorothy , turn up for the trial and subsequently play up front as a striker . this film be a firm Murray family favourite . our house be burgle when I be quite young , and the young member of the Murray family be probably more upset that the " Gregory ' s Girl " video be in the recorder that have be steal , so it be poetic that one of Scotland ' s big woman ' s team , Rangers Women , play all their home match at Broadwood in Cumbernauld . I be sure that I can pass on the good wish of probably most in this House for when the team face Arsenal ' s woman ' s team in the semi - final of the first qualifying round of the champion league tomorrow . as I have say , one of the big selling point of the constituency be its connectivity to Scotland ' s central - belt city . if there be to be that connectivity , we need a proper , integrated public transport system , base on public need , rather than on the most profitable route . no matter which part of the constituency I be in , what people want to talk to I about most be public transport — whether it be an amend railway timetable that mean that there be no service after 10 be on a Sunday , or a bus service that get cancel because there be no cover to allow the driver to take a break . during the summer holiday , the youth group at Twechar Healthy Living and Enterprise Centre plan a day trip to Millport use the bus service . it involve multiple bus and ferry , but it require phone around to get lift back to the village for the last leg of the journey , as the Twechar bus stop run at 5 pm . like most of we , I have spend more time than be healthy consider the basis of my politic and value . one benefit of make my speech later on be that I have be able to listen to the maiden speech of so many other member . when the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) make his maiden speech , he speak about Galloway dairy farm , which be important to I because I immediately think of my grandmother . she grow up on one of those farm . the old daughter of the dairyman , she be bright ; she pass she 11 - plus and be entitle to a place at the grammar school . but in the 1920 , dairyman ' s daughter do not go to grammar school , certainly not if they be the eld and they have six young sibling . she never forget that , and among her child , grandchild and great - grandchild there be an expectation that we would take all the educational chance open to we , and fight for they when they be not obvious . we be expect to " stick in " at school , go to university and , when we have get our qualification , embrace a life of service . I be proud to come from a family of teacher , doctor , civil servant , health worker , school staff and social care staff . I be also proud of the fact that my parent be here today . we be support in challenge thing that be not fair and stand up for ourselves . it be probably no surprise that I end up a trade unionist in the health service , fight for public service and never shut up . for the whole of my work life , I have work in partnership and try to build alliance between worker , and between community . many of the community of Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch be at a point of transition . it be in a spirit of partnership and alliance that I will work to strengthen the bond that bind our people together . I will work in this place , and in Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch , to confront the challenge that we face around those point of transition , and to ensure that it be what unite we that guide we . this afternoon , we have hear from across the House all the point that unite we . let we focus not on difference , but on area of agreement , because we cross path far more often than we cross sword . I call David Pinto - Duschinsky to make his maiden speech . I wish to start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) on her witty and passionate speech . her commitment to public service and her drive to improve the life of her constituent shine through . I would also like to compliment all those who have give their maiden speech today . the standard have be exceptional . what an honour it be to speak after so many inspiring colleague , and what an honour it be to give my first speech in this Chamber during a debate on the future of our railway . so many of my constituent depend on Mill Hill Broadway and Hendon station , and this Bill , bring the railway back into public ownership , place passenger at the heart of our rail system and ensure value for money for the taxpayer , will make a real difference to they . get the management of our railway and the number underpin they on a sound foot be crucial . I think I can justifiably claim to have a strong personal understanding of just how important it be to get your number exactly right , because , Madam Chair , if you ask I to think of a number , I do not need to ponder long . my lucky number be 15 . why ? because 15 be the size of my majority . I have the honour of hold the small majority in Parliament . it remind I every day who send I here , who I serve in this place , how grateful I be to the people who vote for I and how life turn on the very small of margin . so I pledge now to serve the people of Hendon , no matter how they vote , with every fibre of my being . small margin run as a theme in our family . 2024 be the 80th anniversary of my father be smuggle out of the Munk á cs ghetto in what be today Ukraine . in April 1944 , my infant father be herd , along with the rest of the jewish population of the town and surround countryside , into the crowded , squalid ghetto , with thousand jam into barely more than a handful of city block . but on 5 May 1944 , a christian woman pretend to be his mother spirit he out , just day before over 28 , 000 people — include , unfortunately , many member of my own family — be put on train to Auschwitz , never to return . small margin , Madam Chair ; small margin and the kindness of stranger . as a child refugee , my father land in London and be give great opportunity by this great country . his story inspire I every day and remind I of the importance of compassion , courage and the bond that connect we all . as I talk to people in Hendon , I hear so many similar story — story of refuge and rebirth , of contribution and belong . our jewish community ; our somali community ; our afghan community ; our iranian community ; our Tamil community ; those who have recently arrive from Hong Kong ; our nepalese community , many of whom serve so valiantly in the Gurkha regiment ; our Filipino community , who do so much for the NHS ; our Gujarati community — the list go on . there be so many wonderful community enrich this , the great of city . Hendon , in its diversity , represent what this country can be at its very good . it bring together not just different community , but different place , from Burnt Oak to West Hendon , from Colindale to Edgware , from Mill Hill to Hendon , all stitch together by the backbone of the northern line . there be our vibrant mosque , synagogue , temple and church ; community organisation like the Centre of Excellence in Grahame Park ; exceptional charity like GIFT and Kisharon in Hendon ; the Royal British Legion in Edgware ; and group like friend of the Welsh Harp in West Hendon . we be bless with organisation and inspire people who work hard every single day to make our community a well place and help other . we be the site of the first Tesco shop and of London ' s first airport ; home of Saracens rugby club and the RAF museum ; one of the epicentre of the fight against covid with the Health Security Agency lab ; and home of the beautiful Welsh Harp and of sweeping view from Mill Hill . what a privilege it be to represent such a place . but small margin be never far from the surface . too many household in our community struggle to get by , their ability to cope rest on the fine of margin , just one pay cheque away from catastrophe . More than a third of child in Hendon be grow up poor after housing cost . in place like Colindale and Burnt Oak , the figure be significantly high . that must change . tackle this unfairness and disadvantage be what motivate I to be here . it be why I be determined to use my experience from many year work in business and from my time in Government at the Treasury , the Home Office and the Prime Minister ' s strategy unit , to bring change and deliver for the people of Hendon . I will never forget those who go before I as member for Hendon . I want to pay tribute to Dr Matthew Offord , who represent Hendon for 14 year . I be grateful for his work on behalf of resident and for his advocacy , as chair of the APPG on explosive threat , for a landmine - free world . I thank Andrew Dismore , who be the personification of a dedicated constituency MP . even today , 14 year after he leave office , resident still talk of he . the impact he make be immense . there be someone else I would like to mention , a giant of our politic , someone who touch the life of million , and whom I be privileged to serve as an adviser at the Treasury : Alistair Darling . if I can summon up just a small portion of his decency , his resolution in crisis , his clarity in chaos and his composure when so many be lose their head , not to mention his Sahara - dry wit , I will be do very well indeed . he embody our mantra of country first , party second , and we miss he . I be also lucky to work with Charles Clarke when he be Home Secretary in the aftermath of the terrible 7 / 7 attack in our capital . he show what strength and determination look like on those dark of day . Ms Ghani , you may have detect by now that I have a slight stammer . as a child , I could not even say my own name some day . mind you , there be still people who have that trouble today — it be not their fault ; it be part - ashkenazi , part - sephardi and wholly unpronounceable . but I know that I be not alone in overcome a stammer : Bevan have one and overcome it by recite the poetry of William Morris . in my case it be not poetry but the NHS that come to the rescue . dedicated NHS speech therapist work with I for year , which mean that I can talk to you — that I could stand up in class , stand for Parliament and be here today . they give I my voice so I can now give voice to other , and I be determined to pay that forward by fight for world - class NHS speech therapy for all those who need it — those on the Treasury Bench should take note . we be all beyond lucky to be on these Benches , no matter how we get here and whether our majority be 15 or 15 , 000 . I hope that we all remember why we be here : to serve . we be here to serve our constituent , serve our community and serve our country , to remain true to our principle and conscience , and to avoid be dazzle by the theatre of this place or tempt by its theatric . I believe that politics be ultimately about the practical work of change people ' s live for the well , help other , and serve our community and the common good . especially at a time when we have see record number of antisemitic incident and a surge in Islamophobic attack , it be about come together and act with purpose to confront hatred and make sure that all people in our community can feel safe . when I think of our duty of service , I think of the woman who take my father from the ghetto and save his life . I see her face every day in the people I seek to serve . I reflect on the small margin that make big difference and how what we say and how we act impact on the life of other . whether it be unite to tackle hate or build bridge across community and across this House , I pledge to honour her example , reflect that spirit of service in everything I do , and work hard every day to serve the people of our country and the people of Hendon . I call Rachel Taylor to make her maiden speech . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) , particularly after his eloquent speech , talk without hesitation about his history , his ancestor and the struggle that he have face — thank you . it be a great honour to make this speech during the debate on the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill . the Bill be important to I and my constituent , who face many year of disruption and confusion because our train and station be operate by different company . it will bring our train back under the control of the public sector , generate investment in our station , and make it easy for constituent like mine to book travel and ticket . hopefully , it mean that our rail service will be make truly accessible for disabled passenger , with support and help always guarantee . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Craig Tracey , who be hard - work and serve our constituency well . he do important work for breast cancer awareness and raise question in Parliament on issue that matter to our constituent . he be supportive of local event . I be sure that constituent and member of this House will join I in thank Craig for his work and wish he and his family all the good for the future . I also pay tribute to my friend Mike o ' Brien , who be the Labour MP for North Warwickshire between 1992 and 2010 . while in Parliament , Mike hold numerous ministerial position . he be on the Home Affairs Committee that help to increase the number of refuge for victim of domestic violence . as Minister of State for Pensions , he work on the Pensions Act 2008 , which improve work people ' pension . as Minister of State for Health Services , he negotiate compensation for victim of thalidomide . I appreciate his help and guidance during my campaign . he be well love by his constituent , and I hope to live up to his legacy . I have always be someone who get stuck in to change thing that need change and speak up against injustice . that start from a young age , grow up in North Warwickshire , where I campaign for girl to be able to wear trouser at my school . I credit that attitude to my parent . my dad ' s family could not afford for he to stay on at school , so he leave to become a trainee mining surveyor , and go on to do qualification throughout his work life . he become one of the young magistrate in the country , work in urban renewal in Birmingham , and , in his spare time , draw plan to help individual and community group to secure planning permission . he also pay for our many summer holiday . my mum work as a registrar for birth , death and marriage , and be the local parish council clerk , but still find the time to make most of my clothe . I thank they both for be here with we today , along with my partner , Dawn , who be a great support throughout my campaign — thank you . my parent be both drive by a desire to do their good for their family . they instill those value of public service and hard work in I , and support I and my brother to follow our passion . I go to my local comprehensive school , which have evolve to become what be now the Queen Elizabeth academy . that school have make great stride to improve attendance and result , but it still struggle with inadequate facility . I work as a tennis umpire at Wimbledon for 10 year , and I have watch in recent year as grassroots tennis have flourish and become more inclusive , particularly at my local club in Coleshill . that be part of the legacy of Sir Andy Murray and the valuable work of the Lawn Tennis Association . I remember try my hand , as an umpire , at wheelchair tennis — the professional make it look so much easy than it be . it be wonderful to see Lucy Shuker bear the flag for Team GB at the Paralympics , and to see british player do so well at the US Open . even in my 50 , I be honour to play tennis for my county of Warwickshire . now , I can reflect on how much sport and drama have contribute to my life and the life of those I have meet through those activity . for I , sport and drama be driver of social mobility , and they help to give confidence and aspiration to so many young people , break down barrier to opportunity . that be why I will work hard to ensure that young people gain access to activity and local facility that have sadly be lose across the country . I go to university in Leeds in the mid - 1980 , in the midst of the Thatcher Government ' s attack on work people and the divisive dialogue that make it a frightening time to come out as gay . in 1988 , this place pass into law section 28 of the Local Government Act 1988 , ban school from tell young people that it be okay to be gay , so that a generation of young people be frightened , bully and hold back . I play my part in the protest against section 28 , and I be proud that the last Labour Government do so much to improve right for our community . research by the campaign Against Censorship , which be report by Stonewall this August , show that , even in this day and age , LGBT book be be remove from school library after complaint . last week , the TUC report the shocking news that over half of LGBT worker have experience bullying , harassment or discrimination at work . it be important to take stock and recognise the great stride that we have make towards equality , as well as the important stride that the new Labour Government will make , include the vital ban on conversion therapy and the commitment to ensure that young trans people receive high - quality healthcare . I want to assure my constituent and LGBT people across the country that I will work hard to protect the important gain we have make and to tackle the over - simplistic and often hateful discourse that we hear about trans people , just as I campaign against section 28 almost 40 year ago . in my 30 , I retrain as a solicitor and go into property law , because it be property that shape our life and our community , from the building of new leisure facility to the provision of affordable home . there be nothing like the feeling of work with someone through the up and down of buy their dream home . sadly , though , through my career I have watch as few and few young people have become able to realise that dream . that be why I be proud to be part of this Government , who know that the security of affordable housing be something that nobody should ever be without . I pay tribute to those people I have work with throughout my career and recently at Evans Derry Solicitors , who have ensure that the people of Atherstone and Coleshill have access to high - quality legal service on their doorstep , and who be incredibly supportive of my become their next MP . North Warwickshire and Bedworth be where I grow up , and I be so proud to be represent the place where I have spend most of my life . it be a thriving mixture of town and village — way too many to mention — and be part of Britain ' s impressive history of coalmining and industry . today , it be the logistic golden triangle in the midland , home to FedEx and Aldi , as well as to many small family - run business in the sector . that be why I be delighted that I will be join the all - party parliamentary group for road freight and logistic in order to represent business and worker in my constituency , work with they to tackle freight crime and address the skill shortage in that industry . atherstone be a market town famous for its hat industry and have retain its traditional charm , include the Shrove Tuesday ball game , where grown man and woman kick an oversized ball up and down Long Street for two hour until the final klaxon sound , declare whoever be hold the ball the winner . it be a historic tradition that have be play for over 800 year ; it be a sight to behold , and be certainly not a game for the faint - hearted — a bit like politic sometimes . Coleshill be a market town name after the River Cole , with a long history as a coach town . I have have the pleasure of meet resident at the Coleshill warm room and have play tennis there for many year , and can say that it be a wonderful community that I be proud to represent . I will work closely with business across the constituency , such as HT Brigham and Co , Tow - Trust Towbars , Jaguar Land Rover , BMW , Bristan and LTS Global Solutions , to make sure the local community be benefit from the innovation take place in my constituency . LTS Global recently let I take a trip in one of the first electric heavy good vehicle on the road in the west midland . these company show that green energy solution be possible and bring investment into our community . the world - class golf resort of the Belfry be also in my constituency , where just a few day ago we enjoy the British Masters golf , host by Sir Nick Faldo . I learn about its Eagles programme , an innovative programme train young golfer . bedworth be the large town in our constituency . it , too , use to be a coalmine town , and contribute to the textile and ribbon - weaving industry . my grandad be a coalminer , so I remember the impact that the mine closing have on our community . it be also why I be pleased to say that the Newdigate Colliery social club and the Miners ' Welfare Park remain as proud reminder of the town ' s history . in the centre of Bedworth stand the Nicholas Chamberlaine alm house , which be manage by the trust and remain in use for their original purpose — an indication of the kindness of those in Bedworth over many generation . the local school be name after that benefactor , and I have be lucky enough to meet teacher and sixth - form student there , as well as at the nearby Ash Green school , and to help the student with their important road safety campaign . in July , I visit Bedworth civic hall to watch its first show after reopen as a volunteer - run venue . that be a fantastic example of why we need community art , and of what can happen when local group of volunteer get together to save our community facility . bedworth be home to several thrive company produce high - quality good , such as Toye , Kenning and Spencer , which specialise in masonic wear and ribbon and also supply buttonhole for the Order of the British Empire insignia . in Exhall , the Premier Group produce 12 , 000 olympic torch for the 2012 olympic game . bedworth be very proud of our Armistice day parade — one of the large in the country hold on 11 November every year — and I will be honour to attend and pay my respect to the member of our armed force , past and present . the constituency be bless to have many small , picturesque village which I have explore over the year on many walk in our beautiful countryside and follow by visit to our great local pub , such as the Rose in Baxterley , the Office at Warton , the Horse and Jockey in Bentley , Austrey ' s the Bird in Hand , the Plough at Shustoke , the Beehive in Curdworth and the Blue Boar Inn in Mancetter , to name only a few . I assure my constituent that I will continue to visit they all , and all of our beautiful and unique village . North Warwickshire and Bedworth face two big local transport issue , which I will begin to tackle immediately . the first be the A5 . improvement from the M42 to the a426 would enable our local authority to plan for the future and unlock economic potential for the constituency and across the west and east midland . the second be hs2 . delay and uncertainty have disrupt the life of my constituent , especially those in Water Orton , without see any benefit . there have not be adequate recognition of the effect that this daily disruption have have on the life and health of local resident . bring train back into public ownership be the first step towards fix some of the transport issue we be face , which be why I support the Bill . I want to finish my first speech in Parliament by thank the people of North Warwickshire and Bedworth for send I to this place to do this very special job . the people of my constituency be down to earth , straightforward , direct , honest , hard - work people . those be the value that I be raise with , and those be the value that will continue to guide I in my role . I be so very proud to be represent North Warwickshire and Bedworth and all its town and village — my home — and I have not underestimate the challenge ahead . I promise I will work hard and do my very good for all my constituent , and stay true to my value , for as long as I have the honour of represent they in this place . it be an honour to serve under your chairmanship , Madam Chair . I thank hon . member of all party for their amendment , and for their consider contribution . I commend those member who have deliver some fabulous maiden speech today , with such quality , passion and dedication to serve , and a love for their community . it make I really proud to be a Member of this House , and I be certain that the memory of deliver their maiden speech will live with they forever . I will begin with amendment 18 and 8 to 12 , table by the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) . these relate to monitoring , report and scrutinise the impact of public ownership and the effectiveness of train operator . amendment 18 would require the publication of two report . the first would outline the anticipated impact of public ownership . that would simply duplicate the impact assessment publish early this year , and therefore would be redundant . the second report would assess the actual impact of public ownership , some year after implementation . a wide variety of datum be already routinely publish about both public and private sector train operator ' performance . that include reliability , punctuality , service quality , customer complaint and financial performance among other measure . the Bill do not change any of that and there be no need to wait five year to consider whether train operator ' performance be improve . amendment 9 would require the Secretary of State to procure independent report about the cost of the contract award to public sector operator . the Department already publish information on payment make to operator , whether private or public . there be therefore no need for the taxpayer to fund a separate body to report the same datum . nevertheless , the hon . Lady be entirely right to take an interest in the cost of these contract . in that spirit , I would gently remind she that end the taxpayer funding of private profit will result in an immediate and endure reduction in these cost . amendment 9 also raise the specific question of whether public ownership will expose the Government to liability that have previously sit with private operator . under the current national rail contract , the Government fund the cost legitimately incur by train operating company . that include , for example , the net operational cost of run service and the cost of meet pension liability . prior to the pandemic , franchised operator bear some cost risk , but be protect by the taxpayer against , among other thing , inflation and , in more recent contract , risk on movement in pension deficit recovery payment . the franchising system mean that bidder simply price any change in liability into their bid , mean that the taxpayer be expose to liability in the long term . public ownership therefore do not materially change the Government ' s exposure to liability in the long run . amendment 10 would require the annual reporting to Parliament on various aspect of the performance of public sector operator , and amendment 12 would require an independent report on the impact of public ownership on the performance and efficiency of the UK rail network . again , datum be already publish on a wide variety of aspect of train operator performance , include by the Office of Rail and Road in its role as a regulator . the Bill do not change that . the Office of Rail and Road also provide independent scrutiny of the performance and effectiveness of Network Rail , enforce compliance with its licence and conduct five - yearly review that set its funding and what must be deliver with that funding . amendment 8 and 11 look to require independent monitoring of the financial and operational performance of public sector train operator . the Department hold train operate company to account for their financial management through regular review of their management account and business plan . that apply to both public and privately own operator . in addition , in England publicly own operator be oversee by DFT OLR Holdings Ltd , know as DOHL . as a hold company own by the Secretary of State , DOHL be experience in review and monitor the financial arrangement of the company it manage , and contrary to what the hon . Lady say , it be build its capacity in readiness to take over more service . at the same time , public ownership will reduce the other contract management cost , because there will no long be the same commercial tension of the taxpayer interact with private profit . amendment 8 refer specifically to the auditing of publicly own train operating company ' account . it be already the case that DOHL and the operator it oversee must publish their audit account annually . turn to amendment 11 , train operator be already monitor under their exist contract against target for punctuality , reliability and service quality . they be also hold to account for manage within pre - set cost budget limit each financial year . drive up operator ' performance in those area be vital , and the Government will continue to review train operator performance regularly in those and other area . this have be an early priority for my right hon . friend the Secretary of State . for example , in her first week in office , Ministers hold meeting with the manage director of Avanti West Coast , TransPennine Express and their Network Rail counterpart to set clear expectation for immediate improvement . in parallel with these arrangement , the Government be develop detailed proposal for hold the future great British Railways to account for performance . this will form part of the broad package of reform that we will set out in the forthcoming railway Bill . we expect these arrangement will be in place long before the five - year review propose in a number of amendment table . amendment 11 also refer to performance improvement plan . mechanism to require improvement plan be already a feature of the Government ' s contract with both public and private sector operator . the Secretary of State have recently put in place formal remedial plan with CrossCountry in view of its unacceptable level of cancellation and service reduction . finally , amendment 11 raise the question of senior management remuneration when performance be poor . this matter can be consider when remedial plan be be put in place , take account of the circumstance in each case . amendment 19 , also table by the hon . Lady , and amendment 20 , from the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , both propose additional procedural step to be follow before a contract be award to a public sector operator . amendment 19 would require the Office of Rail and Road to publish an opinion on the practicability of transfer service to each public sector operator . clearly it be vital that service be transfer to public ownership smoothly , without detriment to the quality of service during the transition . for that reason , the transfer of service will take place use a well - establish arrangement and process . DOHL have significant experience of manage the transition of service from private to public operation in recent year . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way to the hon . Lady , as she have have plenty of time to put her case . those transfer of service have be complete successfully and smoothly despite the challenge timescale and circumstance , which have include financial failure and poor operator performance . we have also make it clear that we will transfer service on a phase basis as exist contract expire over the next few year . this be a measured , responsible approach that will far de - risk the process . the Bill do not alter the ORR ' s role in grant operator ' licence and issue their safety certificate ; in that role the ORR already independently assess the suitability and readiness of any operator , public or private , to take over service and operate they safely . in light of those safeguard the Government do not see the need to commission further analysis from the ORR , as amendment 19 propose . on amendment 20 , the Department for Transport have already award multiple contract to publicly own operator and have considerable experience of manage they in practice , take legal , financial and technical advice as need . we consider a new independent advisory body to be an unnecessary additional step that would add cost and risk delay progress . I can assure the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent that the Department for Transport be conduct a full review of the standard term of service contract enter into with public sector operator , reflect the fact that public sector operation be to be the Government ' s long - term approach , not just a temporary measure of last resort . on amendment 13 and 14 , the Government do not consider it appropriate to spell out such specific contractual requirement in primary legislation , which would risk constrain future flexibility to adapt operator ' contractual obligation to suit change circumstance . on amendment 13 specifically , it would not be efficient for the taxpayer to require up to 14 different operator in England , plus those in Scotland and Wales , to each pursue its own separate wide - range innovation strategy . indeed , a key purpose of our wide reform plan be to drive a much more coherent cross - industry approach in such area . on amendment 14 , I question why the four group identify , while clearly of course very important , should be single out for a specific mention when there be many other relevant consideration to take into account in service design , include the interest of the taxpayer , freight user , people with disability and resident of urban area to name just a few . the list could be endless , and the important point be that decision about future service level should take into account all relevant consideration . amendment 1 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) , would remove the power of the Secretary of State to continue exist franchise . I be happy to reassure my hon . friend that this provision be include in the Bill as a contingency measure only . it exist in case a short continuation be need to ensure that service transfer to public ownership smoothly and without disruption to passenger . it be intend to be use only in exceptional circumstance and only for so long as necessary to ensure the smooth transfer . it will be available to the Secretary of State only when " it will not be reasonably practicable " for a transfer to proceed . any continuation would be limit by procurement regulation to a maximum of two year in duration , but in practice we would expect the period to be much short . the power be clearly transitional in nature ; once service be transfer to the public sector it will no long be relevant , and clause 2 therefore give we the power to repeal it in its entirety . this be a sensible , pragmatic precaution that exist simply to smooth the transition to public ownership and protect the travel public from disruption . I hope that explanation offer my hon . friend some reassurance . I move now to amendment 6 , table by the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) . the Bill do not affect the provision of roll stock . it would not be responsible or affordable for the Government to take on the cost of renationalise billion of pound - worth of roll stock when there be so many other urgent pressure on the public purse . however , public ownership will open the door for a much more coherent approach to plan the long - term roll stock need of the whole industry . once great British Railways be establish , plan the provision of roll stock across the network will be one of many area where a single direct mind for the railway will add real value . we will develop a long - term industrial strategy for roll stock that support manufacturing , innovation and interoperability and align with the wide objective of the industry . it will look to end the boom and bust cycle of roll stock procurement , ensure sustainable pipeline for future work and consider the good financing structure for future order in partnership with private capital . I can assure my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) that we will consider the point he have raise as we undertake work on this matter . my official be engage with Eurofima to consider the potential of UK membership and the role that could play in the UK market . we will set out more plan on that in due course . a report mandate that in primary legislation be therefore not necessary in the Government ' s view . amendment 7 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , seek detail of the Government ' s propose approach to procurement and the impact of public ownership on the procurement process and the supply chain . she be absolutely right to highlight the crucial role of the broad and diverse private sector supply chain in help to deliver high - quality rail service , and I very much welcome the contribution make by business in her constituency and right across the country . I can assure she and those business that innovation and technical progress will remain as fundamental as they have ever be in deliver improvement for passenger , cost efficiency for taxpayer and benefit for the environment . I can confirm that there will be no immediate impact on the approach to procurement when service transfer to public ownership . exist private sector operator be already require to follow the same procurement rule as public sector operator . under the governance reform , great British Railways will provide much clear long - term direction across the whole railway system , give business and the supply chain the certainty and confidence they need to plan , invest and innovate for the future . amendment 15 , table by the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent , consider the Bill ' s potential effect on open access operator . the Bill be specifically about the ownership of service currently operate under the contract with the Secretary of State and Scottish and Welsh Ministers . public ownership of those service will not prevent open access service from run as they do now . the report propose by her amendment be therefore unnecessary . however , I take this opportunity to reassure she about the role of open access in the future in the context of the Government ' s wide reform . how we make use of network capacity and grant access be fundamental to the performance of the railway and what it deliver for all its user . open access operator such as Hull train , Lumo and Grand Central be a valuable part of our railway . we be keen for such service to continue to operate alongside publicly own service , where they add value and capacity to the network . the hon . Lady ' s amendment 16 , along with amendment 22 from the hon . member for Bath and amendment 2 to 5 from the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , touch on the role of devolved and local authority in the planning and delivery of rail service . amendment 16 and 22 each refer to exemption grant under section 24 of the Railways Act 1993 . those exemption allow service in London and the Liverpool city region to be procure by the relevant authority in those area , outside the franchising system . the Bill make no change to those exist arrangement and it will remain for those authority to decide how good to deliver the service for which they be responsible . amendment 2 to 5 would allow the Secretary of State and Scottish and Welsh Ministers to award contract to company own by certain elect public body . while the Government be commit to strengthen local involvement in the planning and delivery of rail service , it will be important to ensure that do not undermine the plan for great British Railways to act as a direct mind that provide coherence , consistency and clarity for the whole railway . to support that , the Government intend to award contract specifically to public sector company own by the Secretary of State via DOHL . our amendment 22 be not just about the current arrangement with Merseyrail and Transport for London ; it be much more about have the discussion about how local authority and local area can enter into franchising agreement in future if they so wish . I do not think that the Bill stop they do that now , though we have no plan to extend the scope of that . look ahead to the railway Bill , the Government have already say that there will be a statutory role for devolved leader in Scotland , Wales and mayoral combined authority in govern , managing and planning and develop the railway network . that will ensure that decision making be bring as close as possible to local community . I turn to amendment 17 , table by the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent , which propose an independent body to advise the Government on employment term and pay for rail staff under public ownership . that be an important issue , and one that the Government be determined to get right . my official be at the early stage of explore a number of option — include a pay review body — so that we can consider the most appropriate approach to meet the need of a transformed industry . last but by no mean least , I come to amendment 21 , table by the hon . member for Bath , which deal with fare , ticketing and passenger compensation . naturally , we be keen to see rapid progress in those area . we be commit to review the overly complicated fare system . Change be already be deliver by extend pay - as - you - go in the south - east and through fare reform on LNER . we will explore the option for expand ticket innovation such as digital pay - as - you - go and digital season ticket across the network , and we will hold operator — and , in due course , great British Railways — accountable for progress on these vital reform . we also intend that a powerful new passenger watchdog — the passenger standard authority — will independently monitor standard and champion improvement in service performance against a range of measure . I thank hon . member on both side of the Committee for their contribution to the debate . I hope that my response will have provide the explanation and reassurance that colleague be seek , and that that will enable they not to press their amendment and to support the Bill on Third Reading . it be a pleasure to conclude the Committee of the whole House for the Opposition , and it have be a pleasure to sit and listen to another set of distinguished maiden speech from member on both side . I join the Minister in the tribute he pay to the speech make from the Government Benches . I pay tribute in particular to the hon . member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) for her move remark about her commitment to her daughter and to the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) for his powerful remark about how his life be inspire by the bravery of the woman who save his father ' s life . on the Opposition side of the House , we have maiden speech from my hon . friend the Members for Bridlington and the Wolds ( Charlie Dewhirst ) and for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) . my hon . friend the Member for Bridlington and the Wolds do a fantastic job of sell the tourist credential of his constituency and proudly declare himself the Member for both pig and lobster . I be sure that his passion for the place where he grow up will serve his constituent well . my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon speak proudly of the history and beauty of her constituency . the House will be rich for her experience work for the War Graves Commission and her interest in foster caring . we also hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , who use her previous experience as a rail Minister to explain clearly the change that we need and have seek . she also highlight the lack of evidence and arbitrary nature of the Government ' s approach as well as the lack of thinking about the Bill ' s implication at a local level for project such as the west midland rail hub . that bring I to the matter before we , where I be afraid my ability to find word of praise dry up . as my hon . friend the shadow Transport Secretary outline , we have be ask today to rush through a major change to the operation of our railway on the back of a rush second reading and without all the benefit of a full Bill Committee . what exactly be it about give stakeholder in the railway industry the chance to share their view in Bill evidence session that the Secretary of State be so afraid of ? I wonder what witness might have raise — perhaps the fact that the facade of a simple solution to the challenge on the railway present by the Secretary of State have already fall away in the intervene week since Second Reading . on Second Reading , she praise the already nationalise LNER service while chastise private sector operator , warn they that they need to get their house in order . I can not decide whether the ASLEF leadership be just be unkind to she or have a mischievous sense of humour , because the day after crudely champion the no - string deal they have secure from the Government , where do union boss announce they intend their next round of industrial action to be ? not in one of the private sector operator that the Secretary of State be rush to wrest back into public control , but in the publicly own and run LNER . there could be no more definitive answer to the question of whether the Bill will make any real difference . if public sector operator be the answer , the Secretary of State might want to ask ASLEF why it describe its public sector manager as brutal , bullying , promise - breaker . the risk for passenger and taxpayer be in stark headlight . thankfully , the industrial action have be call off , though passenger ' travel plan be disrupt this weekend . it seem that we will avoid a protract strike , but what concession be make to ASLEF , and what involvement do Ministers have ? we have no idea , and we will have a similar lack of transparency in future , if the Bill pass unamended . what of the private sector operator that the Secretary of State have be so critical of , and critical of we for allow to continue ? what can we learn from her dealing with they ? despite all her warm word to her Back Benchers , what have she do since Second Reading , use her exist contractual power , to bring operator such as Avanti back into public ownership , if she really believe that will make a difference ? she have quite literally spend year repeatedly describe it as fail . she have have almost two month to remove the franchise from it , which she could legally do if it be in breach of contract and not deliver , as she have repeatedly imply . I be sure that some of her Back Benchers will have notice that she have not do that . it be yet further proof that she know that the question of who run the railway will not make a material difference . the Secretary of State know that bring Avanti and other into public ownership will not miraculously solve anything . in fact , the seven most punctual operator last year be private sector operator . of the seven bad perform operator for cancellation in 2023 - 24 , four be publicly run . at the start of the Committee , the shadow Transport Secretary outline a number of important question , which I hope the Minister would answer in support of his argument that we should vote with he tonight . how will accountability for improve performance be achieve ? how will cost be control ? how will innovation and reform be drive forward ? how will pay negotiation be conduct fairly for taxpayer ? those be basic question that , after 14 year , Labour should be able to answer , but we will vote tonight with they unanswered . I want service to improve — in that respect , we all want the same thing — but the Bill as be have little chance of make that happen . it will just result in back - room deal that will , more likely , put union boss first and bring no guarantee of improve performance for passenger . I respect and value railway staff , but government have wide responsibility to taxpayer . the Government have the right to proceed anyway , but our amendment aim to at least ensure accountability and transparency , and would make passenger , not union boss , the focus . we seek to ensure the good use of the Committee ' s time , so we will not press amendment 18 to a Division , but with permission of the Chair , we will press amendment 14 and 17 to a vote , as the one most able to secure the good version of the Bill . amendment 14 make it crystal clear that the primary duty of public sector operator be to passenger . whatever ideological change this Government make to the ownership of the railway , that should never change . amendment 17 aim to prevent a repetition of the no - string deal give by Labour to its union boss donor , and to ensure independence in the process . time and again , Labour Ministers have support the importance of independent advice in determine the pay of public sector worker . every single Labour MP voting against this amendment lay bare the stranglehold that the rail union boss have over their Prime Minister and Secretary of State . if they single they out for special treatment , they will need to justify to other public sector worker in their constituency why rail union boss be exempt from the process that to apply to teacher , soldier , nurse and million of other staff . to reiterate , we on the Opposition Benches be in agreement that change be need , but practicality and what work should come first , not this rush , ideological approach . member in all part of the Chamber can see that our amendment simply create safeguard for passenger and taxpayer , and ensure transparency and fairness . I hope that Government Members can see the benefit of that , and agree , even if they be convinced of the benefit of nationalisation , that there be well way to do it . in that spirit , I call on they and all member to support our amendment , and to deliver a well Bill in the Division Lobbies this evening . amendment , by leave , withdraw . clause 1 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 - future provision of service Amendment propose : 14 , page 2 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 1ba ) every contract make in accordance with subsection ( 1A ) shall place a duty on the public sector company to consider the need of — ( a ) passenger ; ( b ) resident of rural area ; ( c ) resident of area underserve by the rail network ; and ( d ) the wide rail network when consider make change to exist service level . " — ( Helen Whately . ) question put , that the amendment be make . the Committee proceed to a Division . will the Serjeant at arm investigate the delay in the No Lobby ? Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Luke Evans Paul Holmes Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Martin McCluskey Kate Dearden the Committee have divide : Ayes 111 , Noes 362 . question accordingly negative . More than four hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 29 July ) . the Chair put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order No . 83d ) . Amendment propose : 17 , page 2 , line 22 , at end insert — " 30ZH Independent body to advise on pay and term and condition of employment for employee of public sector company ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of the come into force of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , establish an independent body with responsibility for — ( a ) provide advice to Government on the — ( i ) remuneration , and ( ii ) term and condition of employment of employee of the public sector company provide passenger railway service under a contract award in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) ; ( b ) advise the Government on value for money during the negotiation of the term and condition of employment of employee of the public sector company provide passenger railway service under a contract award in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) ; and ( c ) prepare an annual report to be lay before Parliament by the Secretary of State on the term and condition of employment of employee of the public sector company provide passenger railway service under a contract award in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 2 ) advice provide in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( b ) shall be base on annual investigation of working practice conduct by the independent body and consider — ( a ) value for money ; ( b ) affordability ; ( c ) domestic and international comparator ; ( d ) the future of the rail network , include the modernisation of working practice . ( 3 ) advice provide in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) shall include advice on whether any conflict of interest exist between any Government Minister and any union involve in the negotiation of the term and condition of employment , and how any such conflict should be manage . ( 4 ) an annual report under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) shall include a comparison with the term and condition of employment under the franchise which provide the relevant passenger railway service prior to the awarding of a contract in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 5 ) the first annual report under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) must be lay before Parliament within twelve month of the first award of a public sector contract in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . " — ( Helen Whately . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Luke Evans Paul Holmes Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Martin McCluskey Kate Dearden the Committee divide : Ayes 113 , Noes 372 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 21 , page 3 , line 32 , at end insert — " 30d annual report on ticket effect of public service contract ( 1 ) the Secretary of State shall lay before Parliament an annual report on the effect of public sector contract award in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) on — ( a ) ticket pricing , ( b ) tap - in , tap - out option , ( c ) single - leg pricing , ( d ) digital season ticket , ( e ) compensation for delay and cancellation , ( f ) ticket interoperability with — ( i ) other train operator , and ( ii ) bus and light rail system operator . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State shall consult other franchising authority before finalise a report under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the first annual report under this section must be lay before Parliament within twelve month of the first award of a public sector contract in accordance with section 30 ( 1A ) . ( 4 ) each subsequent annual report must be lay before Parliament before the end of July in each subsequent calendar year . " — ( Wera Hobhouse . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Carla Lockhart James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Alistair Carmichael Jamie Stone Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Martin McCluskey Kate Dearden the Committee divide : Ayes 82 , Noes 360 . question accordingly negative . clause 2 to 4 order to stand part of the Bill . Schedule agree to . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill , not amend , report . Bill , not amend in the Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it have be an extraordinary privilege to take this Bill through the House , as the first major piece of legislation to pass through the Commons under this Labour Government . the work to rebuild Britain and return to a politic of service start the moment we enter office . we pledge to act decisively to get our country move and our public service work . I set out my motto for the Department for Transport — to move fast and fix thing — which be why this Bill waste no time in fulfil one of our central manifesto commitment , call time on the 30 - year ideological privatised experiment on our railway that fail passenger , fail to modernise our railway and fail our economy . it be why this Government have begin the work of reform by bring service back into public ownership , so that our railway will finally be run in the interest of passenger . there will be immediate benefit . our railway will serve the british public , be they passenger or the taxpayer , and as we bring service into public ownership , we will drive up performance . we will remove the burden of the million of pound squander every year in private sector management fee . we will bring service into public hand as soon as their contract expire , but if operator fail to deliver in line with those contract — if they continue to let passenger down time and time again — I will not hesitate to use every tool at my disposal to drive up standard , include terminate contract early where appropriate . in my meeting with Avanti and TransPennine and in the rail Minister ' s meeting with Northern , London North Eastern Railway , East Midlands Railway and CrossCountry , as well as their Network Rail counterpart , we have be clear that we will not tolerate for any long the poor performance that the last Government tolerate . my official will drive improvement use the mechanism in those contract . that work be already bear fruit . last week , LNER and ASLEF resolve their long - stand local dispute at no cost to the taxpayer , prevent 22 day of industrial action while ensure an improved service for passenger . as a result , there be no driver cancellation over the weekend or this morning — the first time that have occur for many year . last month , we end the long strike in our railway ' history . it be a strike that cost the taxpayer hundred of million of pound in lose revenue and cost the economy more than a billion pound , and a strike that the conservative party deliberately prolong and provoke , at enormous cost to the taxpayer and passenger . a passenger - centre railway need workforce reform ; I do not shy away from that fact . as we move towards great British Railways , we will waste no time drive those reform forward . this be an area where the party opposite totally " fail " . that be a quote from the former Conservative Rail Minister , who be no long in this place . to his credit , unlike his colleague , he have at least have the decency to apologise for what he put our country and our railway through . we be under no illusion : the Bill be not a silver bullet . it be the first stop on our journey to a modern railway for a modern Britain . we will introduce separate legislation later in the Session on the wide reform that be require . fix the industry ' s crumble foundation be the only way to deliver the last improvement that passenger expect and deserve . provide national leadership and a single point of accountability , great British Railways will bring track and train together . it will plan service on a whole - system basis . it will increase innovation while cut waste . it will put an end to outdated working and management practice , and end the operational meddling of Whitehall that have characterise the industry , particularly post covid . in short , we will create a simple , safe and more reliable rail industry , relentlessly focus on passenger and on grow our economy . that , of course , can not happen overnight , but as passenger in chief , I be not prepared to wait . that be why today I have make a write ministerial statement formally stand up shadow Great British Railways , in order to bring together the Department ' s passenger service , Network Rail and the operator of last resort . for the first time in 30 year , the railway will begin to act as one coherent system , and there will be the political backing for decision to be make in the public interest . Shadow Great British Railways will review performance and finance . it will begin work to modernise our railway and unblock barrier to ticket reform , and will start to make urgent improvement now for passenger and freight . before I finish , I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , for his excellent work , support and dedication of time to get the Bill through the House . I also thank the Clerks , Chairs and parliamentary counsel , and of course my fantastic official , who have work at pace and do an excellent job support we in our first two very short month in office . finally , I be hugely grateful to hon . member from all part of the House for their scrutiny and collaborative approach . I add my congratulation to the many hon . member who make their maiden speech during the Bill ' s passage . the Bill represent a line in the sand . it show that the Government be willing to roll up their sleeve and do the hard work to fix what be break and reform what do not work . get this right matter for people up and down the country , for whom the railway be their route to opportunity . it matter for community that need a reliable railway to support business , retain talent and attract investment , and it matter for this mission - focused Government , because the railway underpin our effort to rebuild Britain , from build economic growth to provide clean energy , and to deliver hope and opportunity to everyone , wherever they live . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . we recognise the Government ' s mandate to nationalise the railway . we be not seek to frustrate that , but simply to improve their legislation . I have hear the argument of Government Members and the Secretary of State in support of the Bill , but I remain unconvinced and unreassured . we agree that rail need reform , but we disagree on how to do that . I think we agree that passenger be the priority , but it seem that we disagree on that too , because Government Members have just vote against a simple amendment that would have ensure that public operator serve the need of passenger , include in rural and underserved area . I would have hope that we could agree on the importance of control cost , include one of the big cost that the railway face , which be that of the workforce , but again we clearly disagree on that . the Government have cave into ASLEF ' s pay demand with a " no string , no modernisation " pay deal , and now Government Members have vote against our proposal for an independent pay review body , a simple mechanism to help the right hon . Lady make sure she be not steamroller into concede to excessive and expensive pay demand by Labour ' s powerful union paymaster . however , I welcome the hint from the Minister with responsibility for local transport that the Government may be consider introduce something along those line , and I look forward to hear more about that . here we be on Third Reading of the Bill after just a few hour of debate . rush this Bill through make no sense at all . why ? be the Government throw a bone to their Back Benchers in return for their backing cut to the winter fuel allowance ? be it to please the union that donate to Labour member ’ campaign ? be it a distraction from dodgy appointment and the conduct of their Rail Minister in the other place ? or do the Government Front bencher believe this to be a minor change , though it be not ? be that why they think so little scrutiny and parliamentary time be require ? I urge the Government to think long and hard about the amendment we have put forward . although we do not agree with this plan , as I have say , we accept their mandate to deliver it . we be simply propose sensible change to protect passenger and taxpayer , and I urge they to reconsider during the Lords stage of the Bill . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . petition - Closure of High Lane Post Office I rise to present this petition on behalf of the resident of Hazel Grove constituency . it relate to the propose closure of high Line post office . I should also mention the relate petition with over 600 signature collect by the staff from the post office — Anita , Natalie and Georgia — and the online petition on my website , which have over 800 signature . the petitioner request that the House of Commons urge the Government to keep the post office open in its current location and not to close it . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the Hazel Grove constituency , declare that High Lane Post Office should not close on 19 September ; and far declare that the post office service be vital for the local community . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to remain open the Post Office in its current location and not to close . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003007 ] Unpaid Carers Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) I call Wendy Chamberlain . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be great to be back , and to see you in the Chair . I congratulate you on your new position . care or be care for be an almost universal experience . almost everybody will find themselves be an unpaid carer for their love one at some point in their life , or be care for by love one . who among we do not know somebody who be help an elderly parent , or support a family member with a long - term illness ? as new mps will come to learn , almost every week here , we have an opportunity to learn about and mark a national awareness day for a different devastating illness . for every person suffer from those illness , there will inevitably be a family member — unseen — support and care for they . accord to the recent census , there be 5 . 7 million unpaid carer in England and Wales , but those be just the people who recognise themselves as such . in 2022 , Carers UK research estimate that there be up to 10 . 6 million unpaid carer . whichever figure we use , that be a huge number , and the figure be grow . accord to very recent research publish by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , by 2035 there will be an 11 % increase in the number of unpaid carer , and as degenerative condition , include chronic degenerative condition , become more prevalent , the amount of care that carer do be predict to go up ; it be expect that ever more will provide more than 35 hour of care each week . the Government should care about carer , not just because that be the right thing to do , and not even because unpaid carer be in home across every constituency in the UK , but because we need they . unpaid carer be absolutely vital to our economy and our society . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this debate forward . the House be full than usual for this Adjournment debate , which indicate the importance of the issue . every one of we know people who be carer . I care for my brother , who have a big accident 20 year ago , and I understand what it mean to be a carer and to be available at all time , as other do . do the hon . Lady agree that respite for carer be an essential component of support , and that inability to access respite care will push many into make the unwanted decision to give up care and instead institutionalise the people they care for , due to the unbearable pressure on their mental health ? I be grateful to the hon . member for that intervention . he be absolutely right , and as he and I know , have serve in the last Parliament , during covid the lack of respite care be a critical factor for many carer . it be clear that we all need to do more in that area . we be talk about how vital carer be to our economy and society . the economic value of unpaid care be £ 162 billion a year in England and Wales , £ 13 . 1 billion in Scotland and £ 5 . 8 billion in Northern Ireland . we know the country ' s finance have be leave in a ruinous state by the last government , and that the social care system be already stretch to breaking point . we must also know that we can not take the contribution of unpaid carer for grant , so I hope that the Minister will take tonight as an opportunity to show that the Government do care about unpaid carer . in a debate shortly before the general election be call , the then shadow Minister for care , who be now a Minister , the hon . member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) , commit Labour to develop a new carer strategy if it form the next government : " there will be a carer strategy under the next Labour Government , because we value the vital work our carer do . it will be a cross - government strategy with the Department for Work and Pensions , Department for Education and the future of work review all feed into it along with the Department of Health and Social Care . there be a bright future for those live with dementia and their family and carer . labour will deliver it . " give that promise , I hope that the Minister can understand why I and many whom I have speak to in the care third sector be disappoint that unpaid carer be not mention at all in the labour manifesto . at the same point in the speech I just refer to , the then shadow Minister say that unpaid carer " will be at the heart of Labour ' s plan in Government . " — [ Official Report , 16 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 228WH . ] I hope the Minister will take tonight ' s debate as an opportunity to make that case . I thank my hon . friend for bring forward this Adjournment debate , and of course for the work she do before this parliamentary session on what be now the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 . one of the reason why I become involved in politic be that the day before I start my master ' s degree , my mum be diagnose with breast cancer . I study my degree part - time over two year to look after she and my little sister , who be just five . look back , it be clear that I be fill the role of a carer , but I do not identify as one . that be a key point to note if we be to have a carer strategy . a recent Carers Trust survey find that 73 % of those who provide or have provide unpaid care do not identify as unpaid carer . do my hon . friend agree that a national carer strategy should prioritise the identification of carer across all sector ? order . this be an Adjournment debate and intervention must be super - short . I be grateful to my hon . friend . it demonstrate how prevalent caring be in our society when we have member who have direct experience of it . identification of carer , or people identify themselves as carer , be a key issue that any strategy should address . the then shadow Minister be right that we need a cross - government strategy . this be not a new idea , because we have have such strategy before ; the last one be draw up all the way back in 2008 , but the problem that unpaid carer face have not go away . unpaid carer be significantly more likely to be in poverty than the rest of the population . the most recent datum available from the Department for Work and Pensions — the 2023 family resource survey — show that just under a third of household in receipt of carer ' s allowance be food insecure , compare with 10 % of household as a whole . that be a huge difference . to assess food insecurity , the survey ask the respondent whether in the past 30 day : they have have eat less than they feel they should because of lack of fund ; they have be hungry , but not eat due to lack of fund ; or they have lose weight due to not enough money for food . it also ask whether they or someone in their household have go without eat for an entire day because they lack money for food . far , the survey find that 13 . 3 % of household in receipt of carer ' s allowance — that be just more than one in every eight — have use a food bank in the previous 12 month , compare with just 3 % of household overall . I commend the hon . Lady for her work to ensure that the million of unpaid carer in the UK be both value and support . as have already be mention , I commend she for successfully bring forward her private Member ' s Bill , the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 . under that Act , carer have an entitlement to a week of unpaid leave . do she agree that further action be need to ensure that those carer juggle work and care can continue to stay in employment , avoid the poverty trap that she describe ? I absolutely agree with the hon . member . my party ' s policy be that carer ' s leave should be pay . at the moment , we be formalise a system that already work for people in ask for time off unpaid with the employer ' s agreement , and potentially not take sickness or annual leave . they be not get remunerate for take that leave , and I be cognisant of that . go back to my evidence on food bank , the research from the sector align with that survey datum . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s 2024 report on UK poverty find that 29 % of carer live in poverty . More than half of the carer who respond to the Carers Trust adult carer survey in 2022 say that they be struggle to make end meet as a result of those caring responsibility . as the hon . Member just say , one of the main reason for unpaid carer be in poverty be that it be difficult to stay in work as a carer , especially full - time work . I commend the hon . member for secure this excellent debate . across the United Kingdom , some 60 % of carer be woman , with many have to give up employment , reduce their hour or take a less qualified job . do she agree that need to be a top priority when the Government be look at this issue ? yes , I absolutely agree . when we think about pension inequality , we know that woman be more likely to be care and so be unlikely to be able to build up a full pension entitlement , which compound the poverty that the hon . member describe . a 2019 Carers UK report on the difficulty of juggle unpaid care with employment find that around 600 people a day be give up work . a snapshot from the family resource survey I refer to early show that 22 % of adult informal carer be retire and 25 % be economically inactive . I be proud to acknowledge that since then we have hopefully see some improvement in the ability of carer to balance work and care , have pass my Carer ' s Leave Act in 2023 , give employment right for the very first time to unpaid carer . however , I know from the work that I have do that that be not enough . one of the reason for this debate be because there be a Minister in the Department responsible for unpaid carer . the DWP see the impact of family live in poverty . the Treasury be in charge of the overall picture , but the Department for Business and Trade have responsibility for employment practice . I want to highlight the need , which the Government previously recognise , for cross - Government work on support unpaid carer . the one thing that the DWP be responsible for that could help unpaid carer — I would be grateful if the Minister take this away — be car ' s leave . as the Minister know , I could give a whole speech on how that benefit need reform , which would help rather than hinder unpaid carer , but I accept that be not his remit . I appreciate the hon . member bring this matter to the House . we can see clearly from the cross - party representation in the Chamber that it matter to everybody . many in those role be actually young people . whenever we be talk about employment right and worker ’ right , it be important that we remember young people , and particularly young carer , who may be care - experience on top of that . do she have an opinion on that ? I be grateful to the hon . member . I will be say a bit about young carer , but carer ' s allowance , which I be talk about at the moment , do need reform . my understanding , from speak to colleague , be that young people undertake t - level be potentially lose out on carer ' s allowance because of the number of hour they be require to do . I be sure that that oversight need to be correct . when unpaid carer be tell that they can work only 13 hour a week at the national minimum wage — the number of hour keep go down because of how the calculation be make — without lose their benefit , when they be leave struggle because car ' s allowance provide the low level of benefit of its kind , and when system be set up so that unpaid carer find themselves thousand of pound in debt from inadvertent overpayment , that inevitably have an impact on their own health and ability to provide care to their love one . the resilience of our age population be also very much in the remit of the Department of Health and Social Care . we know that pensioner poverty be deeply link to health outcome and the demand for NHS service during the cold winter month . we also know that provide care during someone ' s working year mean miss out on vital opportunity to save for retirement , lead to a much high prevalence of poverty among unpaid carer . I appreciate that the Minister can control pension , but I want to mention another thing outwith his remit : education . be a young carer be more uncommon than be an adult carer , but the impact over that person ' s whole life be so much great , as my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) say . do my hon . friend agree that one other Department that might be quite interested in a cross - government strategy be the Treasury ? my constituent Amanda have a civil penalty apply on the basis that she misrepresent her earning , which have make she frightened to go back to work or to work more hour . do my hon . friend agree that it be damaging to the economy if we have people not go out to work ? I agree with my hon . friend . if the Government ' s aim be to grow the economy , they must , in addition to other measure , be target those people who be economically inactive not because they can not work as a result of their skill , knowledge or capacity , but because their caring responsibility prevent they from do so . I be conscious of your direction , Madam Deputy Speaker , so if the House allow I intend not to take any further intervention . otherwise , I will not get through the remark that I want to make . I want to mention Fife Young Carers , which support 207 young people in North East Fife , and about 1 , 300 overall across Fife . some of those carer be as young as five year old . care for a love one as a child have a significant impact on their education . in the last Parliament , the all - party parliamentary group on young carer and young adult carer carry out an inquiry that find that young carer be miss on average 27 day of school each year and be 38 % less likely to go to university than their peer . we know that how child do in school have a vital long - term impact on their future employment — indeed , the Education Secretary be talk about that the other day — and just about everything in their future . the position of young carer give we a clear example of how the lack of an overarching strategy fail unpaid carer . early this year , I want to question the then Government over the exclusion of young carer from carer ' s allowance , build on a question ask by the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . the reason that the DWP give I be that supposedly young carer in education can rely on educational grant for support . I therefore ask the Department for Education about support for young carer . it turn out that there be no specific support for they because they be not consider to be part of a vulnerable group . it mean that the DWP can abandon financial support of young carer to the Department for Education , which seem to think that young carer can rely on their parent for income . that show what happen and how support for arguably an incredibly vulnerable group can get lose without overall leadership . yet more Government Departments have a role in the health and wellbeing of unpaid carer . accord to Carers UK ' s 2023 state of caring report , 50 % of unpaid carer be lonely and 58 % of carer have to cut down on their hobby and leisure activity . care for a love one should not mean be isolate from your own support network or have to give up the thing that bring meaning and joy , but clearly it do for many , either because they can not find the time in the day for themselves between work — if they can stay in it — and caring , or because often they simply can not afford to participate any more . this be the moment for the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to get involve , with its overarching responsibility for leisure and the service provide at local level . I be talk about respite break , which the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention , support service , and access to local leisure facility . a cross - government strategy could also engage the Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland Offices , and ensure that similar priority be discuss in intergovernmental meeting with the devolved nation . there be many root cause and solution to the problem face by unpaid carer , and they span all Government Departments . the Minister be here as the Minister for Care , but I hope that he be also aware of the impact of all the cross - government issue that I have set out on the health of unpaid carer . I be sure that he have learn much in recent week . last year ' s " State of Caring " report on health find that 82 % of unpaid carer say that the impact of care on their physical and mental health would be a challenge . it find a significant impact on mental health , with 79 % say that they be stress or anxious and 49 % say that they be depressed . it be therefore no surprise that research carry out by Dr O ' Dwyer at the University of Birmingham have find that unpaid carer be a group at high risk of suicide . that be particularly true for parent carer of child with a long - term illness or disability . of the participant in her study , 41 % of unpaid carer have think about kill themselves . it be clear that we need vital preventive healthcare for unpaid carer , but clearly that be not in the remit just of the Department of Health and Social Care . again , I reiterate why we need a cross - government strategy . I appreciate that even if a strategy be announce this evening , it would not just be in place overnight — it could not be and it should not be . its goal need to be co - design with unpaid carer and the organisation that represent they . it need organisation , buy - in and leadership . for it to work and take meaningful action , it ought to be sponsor at the high level of Government and engage all the Departments that I have mention . it need ringfence funding . it will not surprise the House that I have mention funding . the last strategy be support by £ 255 million in funding . that may sound like a big figure when we keep be tell that difficult decision have to be make , but it be nothing compare with the economic value of unpaid care , which , as I have say , amount to £ 190 billion per year . I do not want to pre - empt the goal of the strategy — they need to be design with unpaid carer themselves — but a first priority should be , as my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough say , the proper identification of unpaid carer . unpaid carer may not recognise themselves as such or know what support service be available to they . professional and organisation play a vital role in identify they , through GPs , hospital , local authority , workplace and educational setting . a national carer ' s strategy will provide leadership and strategic direction . it will put the need of unpaid carer at the high level of Government . morally , practically and politically , it be the right thing for the Government to do . I do not particularly like the title of this debate on the Order Paper . the word " potential " be insert to keep I in line with the rule on neutrality in debate title . it make it sound like the merit of the strategy be arguable , which clearly they be not . I choose to read " potential " in a different way : a national carer ' s strategy have an abundance of potential to create improvement that have not yet be realise . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s remark . I thank the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) for secure this debate on this critical issue . as she rightly state , it touch the life of million of people across our country , and I agree that it require our full attention . I want to start by pay tribute to our unpaid carer and young carer , who play such an important role in our community . they give so much to other , and I want to take a moment to thank they for the enormous contribution that they make . let we also recognise and appreciate the work that the hon . Member have accomplish in bring about the Carer ' s Leave Act last year . it be an important piece of legislation , which take a significant step towards help unpaid carer juggle work and their caring responsibility . as she will be aware , this Government be commit to review the implementation of carer ' s leave and to examine all the benefit of introduce pay carer ' s leave . this Government be also commit to ensure that family have the support that they need . we want to ensure that family be well able to look after their own health and wellbeing , not just that of those they care for . we be aware of the importance of unpaid carer have a break from care . the well care fund include funding that can be use for unpaid carer ' s support , include short break and respite service for carer . I have hear the call for a cross - government carer ' s strategy . this must be address in the wide context of the urgent need for a renew vision for adult social care . as part of that renew vision we will consider how good to support unpaid carer , because the reality be that our adult social care system be face immense challenge . too many people , include unpaid carer , be leave navigate a complex and often inadequate system to secure the support they need . report of inconsistent service standard , chronic staff shortage and a lack of dignity in care must drive we to action . everyone deserve the chance to live independently and with dignity . our approach be to create a sustainable health and care system build on national standard , but tailor to local need . however , we must be clear about the appalling economic circumstance we have inherit . we take very seriously our responsibility to deal with the £ 22 billion black hole that have be leave to we by the previous Administration . as a result we have have to make , and will continue to have to make , some difficult decision , but that in no way diminish our commitment to reform adult social care . it will not be easy , but we be commit to take the step need to build a national care service . I also recognise that many unpaid carer can face challenge balance employment with caring . the Government ' s plan to make work pay set out a significant and ambitious agenda to ensure workplace right be fit for a modern economy . that include empower work people who provide unpaid care . flexible working can play a vital role in enable carer to stay in work alongside those they support . make flexible working pay , the default from day one for all worker except where it be not reasonably feasible , be a key element of our plan to make work pay . we must also ensure that carer be support by the benefit system . we know there have be an increase carer ' s allowance overpayment . we be keen to establish all the fact to understand fully what have go wrong . once we have do that , we will set out a plan to make it right . the Department for Work and Pensions be progress an enhance notification strategy as part of its exist commitment to improve customer engagement and make well use of datum provide by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , build on its exist communication with customer . it be consider all form of target contact to find the most effective and efficient solution to encourage claimant to contact the DWP about change in their income . this will help claimant understand when they may have receive an earning - relate overpayment or be at risk of do so . indeed , the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) recently meet Carers UK and individual carer to hear their view and experience . that be key to help we to establish the fact and make more informed decision . more broadly , the DWP will keep the carer ' s allowance under review to see whether it be continue to meet its objective . the previous Work and Pensions Committee make a number of recommendation for change the rule . we will respond to those recommendation in due course . our goal must be centre on reform . we be commit to build consensus for the long - term reform that be need to create a sustainable national care service that our entire country can be proud of . do the Minister agree that informal network , such as the City of London Carers , provide a vital way for unpaid carer to keep in touch with each other and understand what service might be available through the adult social care system ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . she be absolutely right that many such network , often informal , play a vital role in the community in provide that support and peer - to - peer support . so often unpaid carer can end up feel quite isolated . informal network like the one she describe be vital and I commend the work of that network in achieve the objective we all want to see . the Minister outline the need for reform . I think many of we in the Chamber would like compassion and understanding to be key to that . reform be okay , but they need compassion and understanding to make they work . I thank the hon . member for that intervention . he have remind the House that care for friend and family be an important part of what it mean to be human . it be at the heart of the desire to support one ' s community , as well as one ' s friend and family . we must always approach this issue with compassion . we know that we have certain constraint as a Government in term of what we be able to do , but I can assure the hon . member that we be absolutely committed to fix what be , broadly speak , a broken system ; indeed , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have describe the health and social care system as break . we have to fix the foundation of that system , and unpaid carer be absolutely part of those foundation . we also have to ensure that unpaid carer have a strong voice in the consensus that we want to build around fix the system . we know that if we be to build a national care service of which our entire country can be proud , we will need those reform , but they must truly embody person - centre care and the role play by unpaid carer . to achieve that , I will engage with my counterpart across Government , with unpaid carer and with sector partner such as Carers UK and Carers Trust to ensure that their voice be hear . I know that many of we be profoundly move by the experience of care share by the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) during the general election campaign . as we have hear this evening , this be a subject of great significance for , and close to the heart of , member on both side of the House — include , of course , the hon . member for North East Fife . I look forward to engage with colleague throughout the House on a cross - party basis , because we know that the consensus we need to build transcend narrow party political partisan divide . this be about build a system that be truly fit for the future , and fit for the country in which we live . so let we forge ahead together with the promise of that future in which unpaid carer be visible , value and support . question put and agree to . House adjourn .