I start by congratulate the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) and the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) on their fantastic maiden speech . it be great to start my time in this place by prove no few than five colleague wrong about their constituency be the good , because obviously that be an award that belong to the people of Milton Keynes North . this be such an important debate on an issue that affect many of my constituent and those of other Members represent Milton Keynes . I be glad to hear that this Government will work to ensure that everyone feel safe in their home . as the brother of one of our brave local firefighter in Milton Keynes , I echo the comment of many colleague who pay tribute to those in our emergency service who have deal with such incident . I hope that they have to deal with far few in future . it be an immense honour to stand here today as the new MP for Milton Keynes North . I be deeply privileged to represent not just the new city of Milton Keynes but many of the beautiful village and historic town around which it be build . in my constituency lie the old market town of Olney , where 250 year ago the timeless hymn " Amazing Grace " be pen . there be Wolverton , which boast the old operational railway work in the world ; Stony Stratford , where I be tell the term " cock and bull story " originate — thankfully not something we be know for in this place — and Newport Pagnell , which for over half a century host the headquarters of Aston Martin . next week mark 60 year since the release of the film " Goldfinger " , in which the most famous car in the world , the db5 , make its debut . last week , I have the pleasure to visit Aston Martin to see the home of that historic car and where some of " on her Majesty ' s Secret Service " be film . can I promise that my contribution in this place will have the excitement , glamour and the adrenaline of those film ? no , I can not , but as the MP represent town with such fascinating past , I promise that I will fight to give they all an even bright future . I start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Ben Everitt . he work tirelessly to try to secure a much need woman ' s and child ' s hospital for Milton Keynes . as we now have some of the long NHS waiting list in the country , it be an important campaign , and I will be sure to take up its rein . he also chair the all - party parliamentary group for housing market and housing delivery , which look at how we fix the break planning system — some of the issue have be discuss today . I hope that this new Government take forward many of the recommendation that emerge from that work as we strive to build the 1 . 5 million new home that this country need . I would like to take a moment to mention my labour predecessor and friend , the late Brian White . Brian be a true champion of Milton Keynes . he see the potential in our city long before it be fully realise and , as an MP , local councillor and later mayor , Brian be a tireless advocate for our community . he be never one to shy away from a hard battle , as those of we who know he can attest . one of those battle be the successful fight to keep the law in this place write on vellum . unfortunately , we have since move to a compromise position where only the front cover of each Act be print that way , but since the only remain vellum manufacturer in the country , William Cowley , be base in my constituency , I will fight with everything I can to keep what be leave of this important 175 - year - old tradition . as the first MP for Milton Keynes who be bear , and grow up , there , I would like to talk about the many man and woman who build the new town — now city — that I call home . one in particular be Fred Roche , the man who lead the Milton Keynes development corporation with a bold and uncompromise vision . the mantra that everybody on that team live by be , " make no little plan " . Fred be a streetfighter , who more than anything else be willing to do what be need to achieve something that many other have consider impossible : get money out of the Treasury . allegedly , he insist on construct the outer road of Milton Keynes first , make it hard for the budget to be cut later — a scheme that those work on HS2 wish they have think of . he also once march into Whitehall on Christmas eve and refuse to leave until his budget be approve . I just mention to the Government Front Bench that those be tactic I will not rule out use in the future . [ laughter . ] for member across the Chamber who have , shamefully , not yet visit Milton Keynes , what Fred and his team build be nothing short of a masterpiece . at time when family right across our country be live in substandard condition — many would echo some of the comment we have hear today — and many be live without even an indoor toilet , Milton Keynes offer a beacon of hope . high - quality home be build for ten of thousand of new resident and , at its peak , 10 family be move in every single day . in just a few decade , what be once a vision on a planner ' s desk have transform into one of the UK ' s most dynamic economic powerhouse . today , we be home to Santander UK , one of the big bank in the country , and Red Bull Racing , the fast Formula 1 team on the planet — when I speak to Aston Martin last week , it tell I to take out that line . [ laughter . ] the city of pioneer and innovator create more start - up than almost anywhere else , boast a grow tech sector worth over £ 3 billion and rank as one of the most productive place in the country . for every pound that Fred do manage to squeeze out of the Treasury ' s tight grasp , we have repay it many , many time over . and while it may be know for its concrete cow , it be far from a concrete jungle . some 40 % of our city be comprise of green space . alongside those be our beautiful lake , river and canal . every child , include I , grow up within a five - minute walk of a park or green space . it be say that plant a tree be one of the great act of altruism . we dig , we plant a seed and , with that small act , we shape the world for many generation to come . Fred Roche and the team plant more than a fair few tree . in fact , Milton Keynes boast over 22 million tree , more than 80 per person . but I would argue that build a new town be an even great act of altruism . Fred pass away a few year before I be bear , but I stand here today as a member of the first generation that truly benefit from his vision . thank to Fred ' s design , my young parent be able to scrape together enough to raise I and my brother in a spacious house with its own back garden . the dream of home ownership become a reality for they , provide we with the security and stability need for the good start in life . the park and green space they create back then may one day be enjoy by my own child . now , I will not pretend that we do not have our share of challenge , one I will work tirelessly to address in this place , but Milton Keynes be build on that new town promise of good job , public service that be there when you need they , and , most importantly , affordable and high - quality new home . it be a place that give I the opportunity , so that I could one day be stand here , give my maiden speech in the House of Commons . I mention that because in my short time in politic I have notice that too often people search for excuse to oppose new development . there be a view , or have be a view , that it be more politically convenient to be a voice that yell no , rather than a voice that search for way to say yes . and while the acronym " nimby " may be a modern invention , the sentiment be not . glance through Hansard of the ' 60 and ' 70 , we find countless example of opposition to the building of my hometown . but there be consequence to that short - term political thinking . if it be not for Fred and the Milton Keynes development corporation team ' s ambition , back by the 1960s Labour Government , the two - bed end of terrace that my brother and I grow up in would never have exist . as a proud son of Milton Keynes , I can think of no mission more important for this new Government than to build the new town and new home that this country need . it will require we to embrace the spirit of Fred Roche — visionary , unyielde in the face of opposition , and make no little plan — but it will allow we to build a future where every child in Britain have the opportunity to thrive in a home and a community that nurture their potential , as mine do for I .