I be sorry but I be not go to take any intervention , as I need to make progress . the court must speak to one of the doctor and can hear from anybody else they deem necessary . if there be any evidence of coercion , the court will not approve the request , and if evidence emerge subsequently , the court order could be revoke . it be also important to note that the person can change their mind at any time , with period of reflection build in . have consult at the high level in the judiciary and the medical profession , I know that they can and will fulfil those safeguard responsibility and that they have the expertise to do so . let we be clear : as my hon . friend the Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) say early , this be not brand new territory for doctor . doctor , work in partnership with other clinician , be already require to manage complexity in end - of - life decision making . I follow the request of the British Medical Association that doctor should be under no obligation whatsoever to participate , but if they do participate , they will receive appropriate training and support . doctor should be able to use their professional judgment when and if a conversation take place , take their cue from the patient , as they do for many other issue . I welcome that patient - centre approach . many doctor feel the change in the law would safeguard clinician and patient by make everything explicit . when it come to the detail of what assist dying would look like , we have the benefit of draw on the experience of 31 jurisdiction around the world . I could talk extensively about the international experience of assist dying . the Health and Social Care Committee report do a brilliant job of that , and this Bill have look at good practice as well as model which I and many other would not be comfortable with our have here in England and Wales . reflect on their experience , clinician in Australia say : " through deep and meaningful conversation between doctor , patient and their loved one we can dispel fear , reduce suffering , bring death and die out of the shadow , and so allow patient and their family a well quality of life and quality of death " . as one australian Member of Parliament say : " we have bring ' behind - close - door ' practice into the open and give die people meaningful , transparent choice . crucially none of the fear that be put forward as reason not to change the law have be realise . the status quo be break and assist die work . " evidence from around the world show that the option of have an assist death actually lift the fear that terminally ill people have , and that many never actually use it but be able to make the good of the time they have leave due to the comfort and reassurance that it provide . People talk about a slippery slope , but the Health and Social Care Committee find that not one jurisdiction that have pass law on the basis of terminal illness have expand its scope . [ interruption . ] that be absolutely true . as the court here and in Europe have repeatedly make clear , Parliament be sovereign . this Bill could not be make any broad through any judicial process . speak of process , with reference to the Bill , have listen to what I know be genuine concern of Members about ensure that we get this legislation right , I commit to the House that if the Bill pass Second Reading today , which I sincerely hope it do , I be minded to move a motion that give the Bill Committee the power to take oral and write evidence in order to ensure that a thorough approach continue to be take . that be not normal procedure for a private Member ' s Bill , but I think that that be the right thing to do . I also reassure colleague that the Bill Committee will meet over a number of week , mean that there be ample time for full consideration of the detail of the Bill , include amendment . the Committee will be representative of the view and make - up of the House . let I be clear : that will mean there will be representative of different party with a range of view on the Committee . as the Leader of the House say at the Dispatch Box just yesterday , and have say several time , the Government will , of course , work with I to ensure that the Bill be workable and operable . that will quite rightly take time , and I have include in the Bill a commencement period of up to two year — this be not go to happen overnight . that timeframe can be explore in Committee , as it be more important to get this right than to do it quickly . in conclusion , for the reason I have set out , I be very clear that the law need to change to give terminally ill people choice at the end of life and to protect their love one from fear of prosecution . there will be some of we here today who be lucky enough not to have personal experience of this issue , but sadly we know that any one of we could end up in this heartbreaking situation . we be all live long , which be brilliant , and I have campaign inside and outside Parliament for a great focus on prevention and early intervention of illness and disease to keep we fit and healthy for as long as possible , but any one of we or our loved one could be unfortunate or unlucky enough to receive a terminal diagnosis . I struggle to see how it be fair or just to deny anyone the autonomy , dignity and personal choice of take control of their final week . and the right to choose do not take away the right not to choose . give the choice of an assist death to those who want it would of course not stop anyone who be terminally ill from choose not to make that choice . whatever happen today , I be incredibly proud of the work that my fantastic team and the many campaigner have do on this hugely significant , emotional and sensitive subject . we need to be clear : a vote to take this Bill forward today be not a vote to implement the law tomorrow . it be a vote to continue the debate . it be a vote to subject the Bill to line - by - line scrutiny in Committee , on Report and on Third Reading . then , of course , the Bill will go to the Lords for what I have no doubt will be far robust debate and scrutiny . this will be a thorough process , focus on one of the most significant issue of our time — an issue that people across the country clearly want we to address , none more so than the many family who be face the brutal and cruel reality of the status quo . today be the beginning , not the end , of that process , but the debate can continue only if colleague join I in the Aye lobby today . I wholeheartedly encourage they to do so , and I commend the Bill to the House . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your guidance on correct the record . I say in my speech that I have consult with the high level of the judiciary and the medical profession . I have receive correspondence from the Judicial Office and wish to clarify my early comment . although I have speak to lawyer and judge , I should not have imply that the serve judiciary have in some way indicate their agreement with the Bill ; they have not . the serve judiciary have be very clear that they have make no public comment about the Bill one way or the other . I apologise if I imply anything to the contrary .