I start by thank the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) . I know the hon . member for Sheffield , Hallam could not be here this afternoon , but she have do a huge amount of work over the last 12 month , since the last debate . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , who be the co - chair . this be a fantastic example of cross - party work on such an important issue to woman , but also to man , up and down the country . I pay tribute to the work that those on the all - party parliamentary group do . they be tireless campaigner for improve support for all family who go through the heartbreak of lose a baby . this be the 21st Baby Loss Awareness Week and the eighth consecutive year that this House have hold a debate to mark it . I be proud , once again , to be able to applaud all campaigner , charity and clinician who mark Baby Loss Awareness Week . I will use my time this afternoon to provide an update on the progress we have make since the debate last year and on pregnancy loss in particular . before I do , I want to touch on the comment by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , who be my constituency neighbour as well . I want to apologise because , while we have deliver most of the change in his Act , we still have not publish the consultation on coronial investigation into stillbirth . I know from speak to Bill Kirkup and Donna Ockenden that they be very supportive of coronial investigation into stillbirth . I have meet many parent who have suffer the horrendous experience of lose a baby and who be very supportive of this change . I be hope to come to the Dispatch Box and be able to make a positive announcement . unfortunately , I can not do so this afternoon , but I can assure he that I will personally follow this up after the debate . I hope that , in a very short period of time , we will be able to make a positive announcement for he . the loss of a baby be , tragically , a common outcome . we be improve rate . stillbirth rate have reduce by 23 % and neonatal mortality rate for baby bear over 24 week ' gestation have reduce by 30 % , but that be no consolation to those parent who experience baby loss when it do happen . we know that , too often , when baby loss occur , the experience of parent and family be not what it should be . that be why the independent pregnancy loss review publish its report in July , and the Government be support the recommendation in that report to make sure that every trust offer a consistent , compassionate service . the review make it clear that baby loss be too often treat as a clinical event , with emotional support fail or fall short in a number of area . that be why it be so important that we reintroduce compassion as an element throughout the experience . let I take one example that be show in the pregnancy loss review . I be horrify to read story of woman miscarry at home and store their baby ' s remain in their fridge in a Tupperware container because they be wait day for their early pregnancy loss unit to reopen . the review put it down in black and white that major improvement be need and that be why we be support the recommendation . the review make 73 recommendation for change within the NHS and wide society , and we have already start action on many of those . the first be touch on by the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) : the use of baby loss certificate for baby who be bear before 24 week , who currently can not be register . we announce in July that we would be roll out baby loss certificate . they will be retrospective . there be no time limit on apply for they . they will be voluntary , so parent do not have to apply for one if they do not feel that they wish to . we be go through service user testing with family to ensure that the system we set up work for they . follow testing , there have be some service specification that we need to improve to ensure that the process run smoothly . it will be run on the gov . uk website . once we have those safeguard in place for both parent to be able to register on a certificate , we will announce the roll - out date formally to this place . it be important that parent who want to acknowledge the loss of their baby before 24 week be able to do so . we also look at the sensitive disposal of a baby after pregnancy loss , many instance of which happen at home rather than in hospital or clinical setting . it be important that woman have access to proper collection facility , so we have take on board the recommendation on create a bespoke receptacle to ensure that foetal remain can be collect and store with due dignity . to do that we have be engage with charity , woman and healthcare professional and we aim to finalise a specification by February . we be also work with the Human Tissue Authority to review and update its guideline by March next year . NHS England be also consult on a clear pathway to ensure that woman can always have access to cold storage in NHS facility , too . we have also hear from woman about the difficulty they often experience in get help during a miscarriage . in partnership with NHS England , we be explore how 111 and ambulance service can block - book appointment with early pregnancy assessment unit , so that woman in need can be direct straight to they if necessary ; rather than go to A & E or other healthcare professional , they can go straight to those unit , where care can be provide with dignity and privacy . the review also propose introduce grade care for woman who suffer one , two or more miscarriage ; the shadow Minister touch on that issue . we have take on board those recommendation because currently , woman have to suffer three miscarriage often before they get help . Tommy ' s miscarriage centre at the woman ' s hospital in Birmingham have launch a three - month pilot of that grade model , so that after one miscarriage assessment can be deliver . I have be to the unit to see the amazing work it do and I be look forward to its result . it will look at that grade model and be able to present to we the difference that that will make to woman experience baby loss . that will help to prevent further pregnancy loss in future . another recommendation make by the pregnancy loss review concern the fact that family be often force to grieve in public space . I want to be clear about this . very often , the pregnancy facility be inadequate . my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth talk about the Daisy centre that be available in her area ; it be not available when she tragically have to go through her experience . in many place , clinic , unit and building be not able to meet woman ' s need . therefore , NHS England be survey pregnancy facility and will report back by the spring to ensure we can invest in those facility to improve the outcome and experience for woman and their family . we also need to improve bereavement support for both woman and their family . that be another key area we be look at . member touch on the number of midwife there be . I be pleased that in Cornwall there be a waiting list for training but across England there have be an increase in the number of midwife : there be 14 . 2 % more than in 2010 . we be engage in a number of route into midwifery . we have the degree apprenticeship now but we also have the nurse conversion course , which be popular with nurse who perhaps want to work in midwifery instead of nursing . those route be not just get more midwife into practice but retain they . that be a key element to be able to deliver all the ask in the pregnancy loss review . we be also look at how we support people in the workplace . it be important that woman and family who experience baby loss be able to take the time off that they need . as a first step , the Department have sign the miscarriage association pregnancy loss pledge and we encourage other organisation to do so . we could cover a number of issue that be raise in the debate . I just want to be clear with the House about all the issue that have be raise . with the ongoing maternity inquiry , we have set up a national oversight board so that we can pull together all the recommendation and finding , whether from Donna Ockenden , Bill Kirkup or other inquiry that have happen in the past , and make sure that every single maternity unit across England be respond to they , whether they be relevant to their unit ' experience or not . we want consistent , good maternity care across the board , whether that be the Birthrate Plus model for make sure there be more midwife on unit , make sure the capital framework of the unit be able to help support woman who lose their baby , or ensure that the culture of change that Bill Kirkup touch on so much in his review be roll out , so that woman have a compassionate experience when they go through the devastating loss of a baby . it be our duty to support family who experience the devastating loss of a baby , and this Government remain committed to implement all the independent pregnancy loss review ' s recommendation . at the debate next year , I hope that my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham will have a more positive comment to make and we will have address his concern in detail , but also that we will have take a step forward on many of the issue raise today and on some of the work we have start with the pregnancy loss review .