thank you for call I to speak , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech during this important debate . like other , I wish to congratulate all those who have speak before I , particularly those who make their maiden speech , not least the hon . member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) whose contribution be very substantial . I be originally from the village of Dunloy in the north - east of Ireland . I represent the Aberdeenshire North and Moray East constituency in the north - east of Scotland . I pay close attention when the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) be advise new member on our ambition for the future , particularly because I want to share my ambition . I be the first MP for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East and I hope to be the last MP for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East . this be a coastal area that stretch from the River Spey in the west to Cruden Bay in the south . it be an area note not only for its industry , but for the industriousness of its people and its community . its long - stand economic strength be in farming , fishing and their associated sector , include food and drink production , and , in more recent time , in the oil and gas industry and their supply chain . the area make a substantial and significant contribution to the nation ' s energy security and food security . we be now undergo a new industrial revolution associate with the renewable sector . as the world adapt to new challenge , I believe that it be our duty in this Parliament to capitalise on the opportunity that now present themselves in the north - east of Scotland . it be also a most beautiful area — something of an undiscovered gem — with a develop tourism industry . member will remember that the next time they enjoy a single malt , an Aberdeen Angus steak , a prawn cocktail or perhaps a fish supper , because the chance be that they come from the industry base in my constituency . there be also significant poverty — in particular child poverty — in this otherwise prosperous area . although this be mainly concentrate in large town , it be also a challenge in village and rural area where it be often less visible . recent figure suggest that around 5 , 500 child in this constituency be live in serious poverty — some of they in absolute poverty . to be clear that mean that they do not have enough money to meet basic need for shelter , clothing and food . that be something that we should all remember in our position of privilege , and it be something that we should all work together on to change . I want to pay tribute to the outgoing MP , David Duguid , who represent the previous Banff and Buchan constituency , which disappear in the recent boundary change . some member will know that David experience sudden and significant ill - health before the general election be call . I wish he a speedy and full recovery . David be an excellent mp who do his good to represent everybody in the constituency , but most notably the interest of the energy , fishing and farming industry . his effort be in stark contrast to the way that he be treat in the end when he be effectively deselecte by his colleague . I wish David and his family well in whatever their future plan may involve . I also wish to acknowledge the work of the last SNP MP in this area , Eilidh Whiteford , who be an outstanding political representative . today in the King ' s Speech , the Government have an opportunity to immediately abolish the harmful two - child cap on child benefit and the notorious rape clause , which my former colleague , the outgoing MP for Glasgow Central , Alison Thewliss , work so hard to end . the failure to do this be an early indictment of the Government ' s policy position . I be encourage when I hear contribution from the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . but what about the contribution from the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) when he say , " no ifs , no but , just do it . " ? it be simply not good enough for the people of Scotland , an energy rich nation , to pay so much to heat their home while so many of their bairn be live in absolute poverty . I will be focus on this issue over the course of this Parliament . I will seek to defend the interest of our farming and fishing industry , to protect our public service and to help realise the potential of renewable energy and carbon capture to deliver job and economic growth . but , above all , I shall be a voice for the weak and the disadvantaged . after 14 year of austerity , we need a change of direction , not more of the same . I wish to make special mention of the WASPI woman who have be so unfairly treat by successive government , and who deserve compensation . to conclude , I thank the people of my constituency for their support at the ballot box , my colleague in the SNP and in other party , and the various member of House staff on the Westminster estate , who have be so welcoming and helpful on my arrival and during my induction . finally — and member would not expect I to say anything less — I will be work hard in this place and elsewhere to press the case for the people of Scotland to be afford their democratic right to determine their own future .