it be 1 December 1998 . I have be an MP for one year and seven month to the day , and I be chain to the railing of College Green by 200 cheer leaseholder . thankfully , they be friendly . it be to illustrate that leaseholder feel that they be be prison . those be the day before social medium , and it be a photo op . the BBC run the headline , " leaseholder demand more control " . they still do . since then , we have have the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2022 , which be an attempt to resolve some of the problem , such as forfeiture of a person ' s home for a failure to pay a small service charge , the ground rent grazer charge money for no service and money not be hold in trust in sink fund . it be strange that after 25 year , these should be the very area that yet another Bill on leasehold reform be pretend and fail to solve . I say " fail " , because that be the reason I rise to support new clause 5 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) . it be ridiculous that a landlord can take away a person ' s home worth hundred of thousand of pound for a simple failure to pay a minor service charge amounting to a couple of hundred pound and where there be a dispute over whether the service be even provide . that be why I table new clause 16 about money be hold in trust , which would implement a provision of the 2002 Act that have never be bring into force . we hear in Committee that the policy have strong support from stakeholder , include spokespeople for the Property Institute and the Leasehold Advisory Service . even the British Property Federation have campaign for this provision of the 2002 Act to come into force , yet it be not here in the Bill . of course , 2002 be a time when nobody have even predict the new renti practice that freeholder and developer have since invent to extract money from homeowner for the privilege of live in their own home : the scandal of leasehold house ; the repeat doubling of ground rent ; and the inclusion of commercial area and share service in any development to stop any hope of resident exercise their right to manage . new clause 17 would ensure that leaseholder in mixed - use building could take advantage of the Government ' s policy to lift the 25 % non - residential premise cap to 50 % , and to have mandatory leaseback on expensive commercial premise . unless that new clause — or a version of it — be adopt , few leaseholder in mixed - use building will be able collectively to enfranchise under the Bill , which would be a travesty . if the government do not decisively address the structural dependency rule not only for enfranchisement but for right to manage , property developer will simply sidestep the new 50 % non - residential premise limit by design mix - use block with share service , connect flat to commercial premise by an umbilical cord to deny leaseholder their right . indeed , article from lead law firm explain how developer can build site to ensure that block can never be eligible for collective enfranchisement and right to manage . new clause 18 would provide the appropriate tribunal with the discretion to dispense with certain procedural requirement where it be satisfied that be reasonable to do . it be design to deal with case where a landlord attempt to frustrate a right to manage claim by procedural mean . I be grateful to Mark Loveday of Tanfield Chambers — perhaps the lead authority on service charge and right to manage practice in Britain — for his help in draft the new clause . by Mr Loveday ' s count , of the Law Commission ' s 101 recommendation on right to manage , few than five have be specifically adopt by the Government in the Bill . a whole industry have emerge since Labour introduce the 2002 Act , which bring right to manage into existence , whereby freeholder seek to find minor technical error by leaseholder to scupper genuine — and otherwise valid — right to manage claim . since right to manage be a no - fault regime , Parliament never intend for it to be an invitation to litigation by deep - pocket freeholder and their army of lawyer . as Mr Loveday note , the 2002 Act ' s right to manage do have " trap for the unwary " , and " the single most important problem with the right to manage , namely its procedural complexity " , with " these problem … famous among property lawyer " , have " notoriously lead to litigation on a truly industrial scale . " I urge the Minister to look again at new clause 18 in the other place and adopt such a pragmatic amendment , which would enable a tribunal to waive minor procedural mistake by leaseholder where it deem that just and convenient . since 2002 , we have also have the Grenfell Tower tragedy , which have expose the rotten culture of residential construction in this country . member should wonder why it be that over 11 , 000 tower block be reckon to have fire safety defect , no fire - stop in build voids , a lack of compartmentation , combustible cladding and inadequate fire door that leave the resident at the mercy of landlord , who literally go to the other side of the world to avoid have to pay for remediation . resident be subject to unfair service charge and find themselves prisoner trap in their own home , unable to sell up and move on with their life . this unjust system leech off ordinary people and shame we . this be the only remain country in the world where residential leasehold be the default tenure for apartment living . a person ' s home should not be a source of misery to they and one of unjust enrichment to other . we be talk about the life of 5 million people who need to be free from their feudal burden . that bring I to new clause 19 , which seek to restore the intent of the section 20 major work regime in the 2002 Act to what it be prior to the Daejan ruling . the Minister be good enough in Committee to confess that he be unaware of the ruling and say that he would study it with his official . yesterday , I receive a letter from he on some of the point I raise in Committee . he admit that since Daejan , " the vast majority of application for dispensation be bring by the landlord . " however , he go on to say : " regardless of which party make the application , the landlord will have to persuade the tribunal that dispensation should be grant , and it will be for the leaseholder to evidence that they have suffer prejudice " . he say : " I recognise your concern that leaseholder have to evidence prejudice , but only they be able to do so . once that threshold have be meet , the burden be on the landlord to rebut the impact the prejudice have have on the leaseholder . " he conclude : " the consequence be that an application to the tribunal be not merely rubber stamp the landlord ' s request . " I fundamentally disagree . Sue Bright , professor of land law at Oxford University , have be conduct research into this area , and argue as follow : " the importance attach to the consultation requirement be evidence by the fact that if the landlord fail to conduct the statutory consultation it be prevent ( in the current form of the consultation provision ) from recover more than £ 250 from an individual tenant in relation to those work . seemingly , this provide a very strong incentive to comply with the requirement but the protection offer be seriously weaken by the Supreme Court decision in Daejan Investment Properties Ltd v Benson . Lord Neuberger say that the consultation requirement be a means to an end rather than an end in themselves . he see the provision as play a support role in achieve ( only ) the end goal of consumer protection secure by section 19 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 , that is , protect tenant from unreasonable service charge . an alternative vision , support by the dissent judgment of Lord Wilson , acknowledge that consultation be an important end in itself . this recognise that consultation have an inherent value . far it be in keep both with the tenor of the new building safety regime that promote full engagement with leaseholder and resident , and the thrust of contemporary government policy towards provide consumer protection to leaseholder . " her finding be grim for supporter of leaseholder and a sense of fair play . she say : " in all of the fire safety case review for this article dispensation be grant , at least in part , and , with a few exception , the overwhelming majority be grant unconditionally even when the FTT " — the first - tier tribunal — " be critical of the way in which the applicant have manage thing . " I also thank Dr Howard Soper , another academic who help draft the amendment , who be appal by the number of successful dispensation win by freeholder that he find in his study of first - tier tribunal decision . I urge the Minister to think again , because this cut to one of the most fundamental injustice that we have see in leasehold apartment in recent year — those individual trap in building with fire safety defect . this Bill be the first set of reform to the leasehold tenure in 22 year . the test that I set the then Labour Administration be a simple one . I say : " what we want be for leaseholder to be able to take control over their own life without landlord be able to say when you have a new roof , how much you pay for it , who do it , when it ' s go to happen . you should be able to decide that for yourself in your own home . " the proposal in front of we today do not liberate leaseholder . the Secretary of State himself have say : " I don ' t believe leasehold be fair in any way . it be an outdated feudal system that need to go . and we need to move to a well system and to liberate people from it . " he be right . this Bill do not do that . it will be leave to a future Labour Government .