this Government be commit to give every child in this country a first - class education and every opportunity to make the most of their ability . although there be a small number of child who , for good reason , need to be educate elsewhere , we want all child to be at school every day . that be key for their life chance . for child who be home educate — a right that parent have , and we do not question that most do a very good job — it be vital that we know that the education they be provide with be suitable and that the child be safe . as my right hon . friend the Schools Minister say , the motion conflate two separate thing : the issue of persistent absence , which be when pupil miss 10 % or more of their lesson , and the topic of home education for those who be not in school . to take persistent absence first , the year the Government come to power , persistent absence be at 16 . 3 % . we get that down to 10 . 5 % in 2015 - 16 , and it average 10 . 9 % in the five year prior to the pandemic . it be during the pandemic that it rise significantly again to 22 . 5 % . the Government be take wide - range action to tackle the matter . we have already establish 14 attendance hub across 800 school , reach 400 , 000 pupil . this term , we be more than double the number of hub so that nearly 2 , 000 school will be support . we be roll out an attendance mentor pilot that we have in five area to a further 10 area , and that programme will reach around 10 , 000 child . we have deploy 10 expert attendance adviser to support local authority and school trust . we have develop a data tool that help school to understand the local trend and target their support , and we have strengthen our guidance to local authority . for the first time , school be expect to have a member of the senior leadership team responsible for attendance . evidence suggest that the strategy be work . there be 380 , 000 few persistently absent pupil in the past academic year , and in the last academic term overall absence be down to 6 . 8 % , from 7 . 5 % in the autumn term the year before . that be all back by a national communication campaign to remind parent that " moment matter , attendance count " . the campaign aim to encourage parent to realise that their child should attend school if they have a mild cough or cold and no fever or vomit , and that mild anxiety can be make bad by a prolong period of absence . the campaign have be run across social medium and the radio . we be grateful to Sir Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer , for his letter reassure school leader that child should generally attend school if they have mild respiratory illness , because it be good for their wellbeing and a host of other thing . of course , mental health challenge underpin some of the absence — something raise by the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) , among other . that be why we have be roll out mental health support team , which now cover 44 % of pupil in school and college and will cover 50 % of those pupil by March 2025 . we be offer all state school and college a grant to train a senior mental health lead , and we be pleased that 14 , 400 school and college have already take that up , cover seven school in 10 for all state secondary school . there be then the related but separate issue of a register for those who be home educate . I should declare that I serve on the Education Committee when my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) chair it , and we produce a report that recommend a register for those not in school . that remain a recommendation of the Education Committee . that be the register that be in the Schools Bill refer to in the motion and for which we remain committed to legislate . my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) have be do great work to champion this issue , and I look forward to the outcome of the Second reading of her child not in School ( Registers , Support and Orders ) Bill on 15 March . various point be raise in this debate and I will try and cover as many as possible . the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) and for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) raise issue about the SEND system . our SEND and AP improvement plan be design to address the issue that they raise about child be place in suitable provision and in a timely manner . we should not have child out of school for prolong period because they be unable to get their need meet . my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , who I think be currently at her Westminster Hall debate , have introduce an important Bill , the School Attendance ( duty of Local Authorities and Proprietors of Schools ) Bill , and I look forward to see its progress through the House . the hon . member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) raise the topic of breakfast club , which we be fund in 2 , 700 school . many school already have a breakfast club , of course , and have have for some time , but we be fund 2 , 700 . my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) raise the issue of fix penalty notice . our guidance be clear that there should be a " support first " approach , but penalty be there to prevent court action from take place . I should say that 89 % of the fixed penalty notice issue be for unauthorised term - time holiday , but I be happy to pick up that discussion with he . my final point be this : I have watch the Labour party try to reinvent itself as the champion of child be in school , and many Labour Members have raise issue about the pandemic , which be where many of the problem stem from . however , I remember their action during that pandemic . I remember how long it take they to say that school be safe . I remember the then Prime Minister stand here every week ask the Leader of the Opposition to say that school be safe , and he not do so . I remember that when one of Labour ' s union ally produce a statement say that teacher should not be teach a full timetable nor routinely mark work during that period , Labour say nothing to challenge it . when that same union team up with other union to produce a 200 - point list of thing they want to see before school return , the Labour party say nothing to challenge they . what be labour ' s big idea during the pandemic ? to go against the vaccination advice of the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation , which be that we should vaccinate by age , and instead vaccinate teacher — no other profession , just teacher — whatever their age . why ? because the union want that to happen . in addition to the motion conflate two separate thing , and in addition to this problem be bad in labour - run Wales , like all problem be , we will not allow the Labour party to reinvent the history of their behaviour under this Leader of the Opposition . they can not blame the last Leader of the Opposition for that ; it be under this Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) . it be this Government who do all they could to get child back to school during the pandemic , and it be this Government who be do all they can to get child back to school now . question put .