Oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — UK arm sale to Israel what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of UK arm sale to Israel on ( a ) civilian death and ( b ) compliance with international humanitarian law in Gaza . all export licence application be assess on a case - by - case basis against the strategic export licence criterion . this government will not use any export licence to any destination where application be not consistent with the criterion . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer , but since the horrendous Hamas attack on 7 October , 12 , 000 innocent palestinian civilian have be kill ; and two third be woman and child . the UN Secretary - General have describe Gaza as a " graveyard of child " . today an israeli airstrike on a United Nations Relief and Works Agency school have kill 12 people . the indonesian hospital in Gaza be currently surround by israeli Defence Forces tank . can the Minister confirm whether arm sell by the UK have be use in violation of international humanitarian law , and will he explain why arm sale to Israel have not yet be suspend ? the hon . Lady be right to describe as terrorism the horrendous and heinous attack by Hamas , without which this would not have start . we call on all party — the Israelis include — to ensure that they act within international humanitarian law . it will interest she to know that our defence export to Israel be relatively small — just £ 42 million last year — and , as I mention in my initial answer , they go through a very strict criterion before anything be export . Israel and Gaza what step he be take to encourage de - escalation of the conflict in Israel and Gaza . we be work with partner across the wide region , urge all side to de - escalate tension , facilitate the supply of humanitarian aid , and tackle all form of extremism . we be all absolutely heartbroken — [ interruption . ] order . member must sit down again once another Member be speak . we can not have two member on their foot at the same time . we be all heartbroken by what be happen in the middle east . as Israel work to root out Hamas terrorist , will my right hon . friend work to ensure that aid get to civilian and that Israel work in a way that be compatible with international law ? as the Government work to get hostage free , will they also work for increasingly long humanitarian pause that can build towards a just and last peace ? my hon . friend be right about try to do everything we can in the region . that be why I send a Royal Navy task group to try to de - escalate tension , include RFA Lyme Bay and RFA Argus . those facility , along with other , be do everything they can to help lower the tension and certainly act as deterrent , and to ensure that we can get aid into the region . he will be interested to hear that we have have 51 tonne of aid deliver so far , and there will be another flight later this month . there be thousand of orphan and displace family amid an ongoing humanitarian catastrophe . what be the Government do to ensure that unrestricted aid be reach all the people who desperately need it , and , importantly , to ensure that Israel lift the siege condition ? as the hon . Lady will know , we be in favour of see pause in the action . some people , I know , call for a ceasefire , but I would point out that there be a ceasefire on 6 October ; the problem be that it be break by Hamas , who work this carnage on the middle east . we be do everything possible to help get that aid in . with the Royal Navy taskforce , infantry , and other personnel in the region , we now have an uplift of about 600 personnel in the wide region , who be all help to ensure that we get the aid in and across the border once we have get it to the region itself . I welcome the Defence Secretary to his place . behind Hamas , sit Iran ; behind Iran , sit Russia ; and , increasingly , behind Russia sit China . that be the geopolitical backdrop that will define the next decade , with grow authoritarianism impact on our security and our economy . be it now time to increase the defence budget to 3 % ? my right hon . friend will know that we have indeed pledge to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % , as economic condition allow . this year , it will probably be around 2 . 4 % , so we be make good progress . prior to get this role , I talk about my own desire to see high defence spending , because we be live in a much less certain world , with many more variable . he be right to point out Iran ' s action , with Hezbollah in Lebanon , syrian militia in Iraq , and Houthis in Yemen very much drive the situation . the reality be that neither the long - term security of Israel nor justice for the Palestinians will be find through bomb and bullet . as an international community , we need to be do all we can to move to an endure cessation of the violence , but while we be do that , can the Secretary of State say how the UK armed force will be utilise their capacity to help those get aid into Gaza to get much big quantity in than be happen at the moment ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the UK ' s desire to do that , and I have talk about how we have deploy a large increase in personnel in the region to work with various government . I have personally speak to most of the middle eastern government , and on those call the first thing they have do be welcome our deterrent and the fact that we have bring such a large amount of aid — now £ 30 million — to help the Palestinians . it be not just the hostage themselves who be be hold hostage ; the population of Gaza be be hold hostage by Hamas , and therefore the solution be to deal with Hamas themselves . I call the shadow Secretary of State . after nearly three month , it be very good to finally welcome the Defence Secretary to the Dispatch Box for the first time . he reflect the deep concern about the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza and the risk of wide escalation . Labour totally condemn Hamas terrorism . we back Israel ' s right to defend itself , but require it to meet its duty under international law and lift the siege condition , and we want to see the break in fighting extend to get much more aid in and the hostage out . we back the military deployment to the region to support wide security , but with attack against US personnel rise , what action be the Defence Secretary take to increase protection for UK personnel in the middle east ? first , Mr Speaker , it be good to be at the Dispatch Box opposite the right hon . Gentleman . I thank he , as well as yourself and other , for their condolence when I be not able to attend the first Defence question . in term of protect our own personnel , I have ask the Chief of the Defence Staff to review their position . I make reference to the additional personnel who have move to the region , but do not mention that several have be move to Tel Aviv , Beirut and Jordan , all with the aim of protect both british military personnel and british citizen in the region . we keep that matter under constant review . would the Defence Secretary agree that over the past decade , there have be an international failure to pursue a palestinian peace settlement and tackle the Hamas threat ? middle east escalation risk be not mention in the Government ' s defence Command Paper update , nor be Hamas or Palestine . with threat increase , be the Defence Secretary pursue that defence plan in full , include further deep cut to the british Army ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that nobody , include the Israelis , see what Hamas be about to do come . that point to the need for much great surveillance , but also — much wide than that — the need to pursue the two - state solution , which be official british policy and be something that the world must do as this conflict , we hope , come to an end . the answer to the right hon . Gentleman ' s question about be able to deploy british troop and , indeed , asset be that when I ask the question , the answer come back immediately : " yes , we can do it , and there be more that we could do should we need to . " I be satisfied that we cut our cloth in order to react to event around the world , which of course come on top of what we be do in Kosovo and elsewhere . we will certainly make sure that we maintain the resource to carry out those important mission . service Accommodation what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of service accommodation for armed force personnel . what step he be take to improve service accommodation for armed force personnel . currently , 96 . 5 % of the service family accommodation meet or exceed the Government ' s decent home standard ; only those property should be allocate to service family . the Government continue to invest significant sum to improve the quality of UK service family accommodation . the Defence Infrastructure Organisation receive an investment of £ 400 million over this financial year and the next as part of the defence Command Paper refresh , mean that the forecast £ 380 . 2 million for this year be more than double last year ' s investment in maintenance and improvement . the Minister will be aware that this time last year , almost 5 , 000 home of armed force personnel be affect by black mould and damp , which obviously include many property that have child in they . a year on , too many of our service personnel and their family still have this problem . no matter whether it be one house or 5 , 000 house , can the Minister set out how he be go to tackle this problem quickly ? our armed force personnel and their family deserve well than what they have be get to date . the hon . Gentleman ask an excellent question . we be aware that what happen last winter be not good enough . too many home be affect , particularly by damp and mould . that be why we have prioritise get the investment in , and it have more than double in the current financial year . I be pleased to confirm to he that last week I set out our winter plan . it show that 4 , 000 home in the defence estate would benefit from significant work on damp and mould , which be about 60 % of the total number that require that work . a constituent of mine who live in clive barrack at Tern Hill in Shropshire have report that he live in rat - infest accommodation , sometimes with two to six soldier live in the same room . as a result , shipping container have be place in the ground — about 40 at the end of August — and kitte out like budget hotel accommodation for those soldier to live in . can the Minister provide any reassurance that these servicemen will be provide with somewhere appropriate to live in the near future ? I be obviously sorry to hear about that case . I would ask the hon . member to write to I with the detail , and I will look into it with the DIO . the key thing be that , wherever we be talk about — whichever specific barrack or base — if we be go to get on with the work , we need the money there , and we have get that . we have put in place the extra £ 400 million , and as I set out in the winter plan , thousand of force personnel will now benefit from that work . the DIO be not fit for purpose , and the Future Defence Infrastructure Services accommodation contract have be a disaster , include completely unacceptable delay in issue and check gas and electricity safety certificate . no private landlord would get away with this without be sue . the Secretary of State have a good run out at the Defence Committee last week , and say he be potentially look at radical reform in this area . can I urge the Minister and his boss to do precisely that to honour our service personnel and their family in a way they be not be honour at present ? I be very grateful to my right hon . friend . he know that I share his passion for see genuine step change improvement in our accommodation . that be why we have announce the spending that we have . on the performance of the contractor , which the DIO ultimately oversee , one of the important aspect of the winter plan be a significant increase in staff man the telephone service , so that we see well service to personnel . we expect the average waiting time for one of those call to go from seven minute to 29 second . it will be very important to service personnel that , when they make those call , they get answer in good time . the Minister may be aware that early this year one of the accommodation block in HMS Collingwood in my Gosport constituency be shut down all together because it just simply be not fit for human habitation . there be also some issue with the accommodation block in HMS Sultan . could I invite the Minister to come to Gosport to have a look at some of the accommodation on offer for our service personnel ? it be simply not good enough , and they deserve well . I would be more than happy to do so . I call the shadow Minister . there be a new Defence Secretary , but it be the same old story in service accommodation , with report of broken boiler , black mould , leaky roof and painfully long wait for repair . last Christmas , one service family tell I that they go without a working boiler for three week and be force to live in a hotel over Christmas and new year . can the Minister assure I that no one who serve our country in uniform will go without heating , or be force out of their home this winter because of the dire state of their military accommodation ? I be grateful to the hon . member , and I repeat the point : we recognise that performance be not good enough last winter , which be why the Secretary of State make it an absolute priority to get the extra investment in . have do that , I be pleased to say that the winter plan do include boiler and heating upgrade for about 1 , 500 home . Armed Forces : non - combat Incidents and Jurisdictional Constraints what discussion he have have with his US counterpart on increase awareness of ( a ) non - combat incident and ( b ) jurisdictional constraint affect the armed force . Defence Ministers have close relationship with our US colleague and discuss such issue on a case - by - case basis . I thank the Minister for his answer . it be fast approach the sixth anniversary of Captain Dean Sprouting be kill , in a road traffic accident in 2018 while on operational duty , by US servicemen . the US guardsman do not adhere to any standard operation procedure or health and safety regulation , drive unsuitable and poorly maintain vehicle on an unnecessary journey . Captain Sprouting ' s death be both avoidable and preventable , and it would not have occur have the US servicemen involve adhere to the regulation . despite the continuous effort of his widow , Linda , for the Ministry of Defence to highlight the complicated jurisdictional procedure involve in blue - on - blue incident , Linda and her boy continue to suffer the consequence on a daily basis . what I would like to ask the Minister be : give that the Defence Minister in the Lords — order . I think the Minister must have get the gist by now and be able to answer with something . [ interruption . ] just to help the hon . member for Falkirk ( John Mc Nally ) , I have to try to get through a list of what be mean to be question . I give he a long time to ask a question , and it be not forthcoming . if I do not do this , I will not get through the other people who wish to ask question . the hon . Gentleman raise a very complicated case and the widow , to whom I send my condolence , be obviously keen to see the matter resolve . I suggest that the hon . Gentleman and I meet to discuss the issue in appropriate detail . I be happy to look at an Adjournment debate , if that help , but we have to have short question to get other people in . support for Veterans what step he be take to support veteran . what step his Department be take to support veteran . the Ministry of Defence deliver a range of service to veteran and their family , include the administration and payment of armed force pension and compensation , and tailor advice and assistance through the Veterans Welfare Service , Defence Transition Services and integrate personal commissioning for veteran . when veteran and their family be compensate for the detrimental impact their service have have on their life , that be unjustly class as income when apply for mean - test benefit , render veteran and their family ineligible for welfare support under UK Government control , the most significant of which be pension credit . as a result , thousand of veteran miss out on almost £ 6 , 000 every year . will the Minister pledge his support for the Royal British Legion ' s Credit their Service campaign ? and will he work with the Department for Work and Pensions and his other Cabinet colleague to ensure that compensation award to veteran be disregard when apply for mean - test benefit ? of course the MOD work with the DWP on a range of issue . compensation be set in the full knowledge of how it will be deal with under the benefit system in the UK . by most measure , the armed force compensation scheme and the war pension scheme be feel to be sound and appropriate for award significant amount of money to those who have serve our country and who , unfortunately , have be disadvantage as a result . will my right hon . friend join I in thank the Veterans Charity in North Devon for their Poppies to Paddington operation , which see 231 wreath from the great Western Railway region reach Paddington for Remembrance Day , and for their incredible work to help support our wonderful veteran across the UK ? I absolutely will , and I add my congratulation to my hon . friend ' s in thank the Veterans Charity in North Devon . I also congratulate she on the extraordinary support she give to our veteran in her constituency and elsewhere , particularly as we come out of the season of remembrance , which I know you be heavily involve with too , Mr Speaker . it be important to reflect on those who give so much in the service of our country . I call the shadow Minister . over the past year , the number of veteran claim universal credit have increase by 31 . 6 % , which be nearly a third . do the Minister recognise that the King ' s Speech fail to help veteran in receipt of universal credit to cope with the increase cost of living cause by his Government ' s economic failure ? and do he far recognise that some of the long - term sick who his party have be attack in the medium over the last few day be veteran with physical and mental health challenge ? what advice have he give his colleague about the Conservative party rhetoric , and about lend their full support to our veteran and all those who have serve ? the hon . Gentleman will know that universal credit be an in - work benefit . within the system , there be allowance that we offer to our veteran that can be improve . as he know , that be why we have institute the quinquennial review and the independent review of veteran ’ welfare service , which we will be respond to shortly . Trident Nuclear Programme if he will make an estimate of the annual maintenance and run cost of the Trident nuclear programme . the Ministry of Defence co - ordinate a range of interdependent programme to support , maintain and renew the nuclear deterrent . the expect cost of the combine defence nuclear enterprise will be set out at supplementary estimate in February . the estimate cost of Trident ' s renewal stand at the moment at £ 31 billion , with a furth £ 10 billion earmark for contingency . we know that containment of nuclear material be a problem for the Ministry of Defence , and we also know from recent report that a Vanguard - class submarine nearly have a collision over the weekend . our party put in a freedom of information request ask about transportation of nuclear material through Scotland , and that be rebuff . the UK Government may be content to play second fiddle to the US on weapon of mass destruction , but can the Secretary of State explain the lack of transparency on WMD movement in Scotland , and justify Scotland ' s be keep in the dark ? be it not time to abandon this costly and dangerous bomb and get it out of Scotland for good ? order . let we help each other to get through the list , please . I profoundly disagree about this be the time to abandon the deterrent . I could not think of a bad time . the policy of the hon . Gentleman ' s party be not just to abandon the deterrent but to withdraw from NATO . I could not think of a more reckless policy to undertake in the face of russian aggression . we support the deterrent and we will continue to invest in it . do the Minister share my relief that both main party in the House of Commons support the retention and renewal of the nuclear deterrent ? do he also share my relief that , in July 2016 when the vote be hold on whether to renew the nuclear deterrent , there be a massive majority of 355 in favour of do that ? that send a message to the scottish nationalist about how unrepresentative their view be . I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend for that remark . I be delighted that those on the Labour Front Bench show their agreement by nod when I give my previous answer . I be delighted that there be consensus . I think we all agree that , particularly at this time , the country need the security of a deterrent to deter what would be the most aggressive threat to our nation ' s freedom . I welcome the shadow Minister to her place . may I confirm again that labour ' s support for our nuclear deterrent , which we maintain on behalf of our NATO ally , be total ? however , follow report in newspaper about a malfunction depth gauge on a Vanguard submarine at sea , can the Minister explain what step he have take to ensure that such an incident never happen again ? first , I be delighted to hear confirmation of Labour ' s total support for the deterrent . that send a very powerful message to our adversary about our national endeavour to support the deterrent and its renewal . on the specific story that the hon . Lady mention , she will not be surprised to hear that we do not comment on operational matter in respect of our submarine . I call the SNP spokesperson . this one will break the convention . let I also welcome the Secretary of State to their position . the nuclear enterprise have an uncapped budget , and , after the demise of hs2 , be the large single public procurement project on these island . for those of we on the SNP Benches at least , that be money spend on a weapon system that be design never to be use , which not only bleed money from the conventional MOD budget but suck it from hospital , school and social care . on a day when the preview of the autumn statement in the Financial Times read , " stagnation nation : govern the UK when ' there be no money ' " , can the Minister advise the House what step his Department be take to ensure that there be no further cut to conventional force or elsewhere because of the uncapped , runaway Trident budget ? the hon . Gentleman talk about budget and cost . I can be open about the figure that matter : 80 million . that be the combined death toll in the first and second world war . we have not have a third world war and we be profoundly lucky , and I put it to the House that it be not a coincidence . we know from the official history of the submarine service by Peter Hennessy and James Jinks that , during the transition to Vanguard , contingency be make in Whitehall for the possible alteration of the continuous at - sea deterrent to take account of the complete breakdown of one or more hull . this involve dive a Polaris submarine into Loch Long to remain there on a quick reaction alert . can the Minister advise the House on what discussion his Department be have on the contingency that we now see arise from an almost 40 - year - old Vanguard fleet ? the hon . Gentleman , too , will not be surprised to hear that we will not comment on that , other than to say that we have have a continuous at - sea deterrent since 1969 . we should all be proud of that , and I be delighted to see that member on both side of the House who support our Union also support the nuclear deterrent . RAF aid flight to the Middle East what step he be take to increase the number of RAF aid flight to the middle east . what step he be take to increase the number of RAF aid flight to the middle east . defence asset continue to be ready to supply humanitarian support to the region . as the hon . Gentleman know , the delivery of aid be impede by the many challenge around Gaza , but so far we have airlift 51 tonne of aid to the country . as I have say previously , I want to see an end to the violence in the middle east , although I acknowledge that neither Israel nor Hamas agree to an immediate ceasefire . while negotiation to deliver an endure peace be ongoing , we must urgently accelerate the delivery of aid via the RAF to alleviate human suffering on the ground . can the Secretary of State explain why , within two week of the earthquake in Turkey and Syria , nearly 100 tonne of aid be deliver there , yet since the Israel - Hamas war break out more than a month ago , only 50 tonne have be deliver by the RAF ? I can . the difference be a war zone . when I say that we have deliver " to the country " , I mean , of course , to Egypt . from there we have to get the aid across the Rafah crossing , which , for all the reason of complexity , be not always open or available . there be many restriction to get that aid in , but I be work very hard on that . the problem be not a lack of resource ; we have put in £ 30 million , more than double the exist £ 27 million , and I can assure the hon . Gentleman that there be further flight leave later this month . for more than a month we have witness a distressing humanitarian disaster unfolding in Gaza . it be welcome that the RAF be fly UK humanitarian aid to the region , but so far we have see only three RAF flight . when will the Government increase the number of flight and the amount of aid give to Palestinians , who have suffer so much and who deserve , at the very least , the basic essential to try to survive ? the issue be not get the aid to the region ; we could fly more aircraft . the issue be get the aid into Gaza itself , and in that regard we have the problem of Hamas , a terrorist organisation not in the least bit interested in look after the citizen of Gaza , and , of course , the problem of the Rafah crossing , which be open and close on a fairly arbitrary basis . however , I can assure the hon . Lady that we be work very hard with all the different body and government in the region to get more of that aid in as quickly as possible . the capacity constraint be not fly it to the region . Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy what step he be take to support afghan citizen who be eligible for the afghan relocation and assistance policy . some 13 , 000 eligible person and their family be now in the UK under the ARAP scheme . we be determined to deliver on our commitment , with many hundred more arrival in the UK plan before the end of the year . in the light of Pakistan ' s brutal crackdown on undocumented and temporary visa - bear afghan refugee and its forcible deportation of those people back to Afghanistan , can the Minister confirm the security of those eligible for the afghan citizen resettlement and ARAP scheme in Pakistan , include many whose claim have be unprocessed for two year ? can he expedite those claim to stop people be throw back into the clutch of the Taliban ? may I gently encourage member on both side of the House to change their tone when describe the Government of Pakistan in relation to these matter ? we would not have bring out thousand of people have it not be for the support of the Government of Pakistan , and we continue to enjoy their support and co - operation in our effort to bring out many thousand more . as the hon . Lady well know , because it have be well cover in the medium , the Government of Pakistan have seek to accelerate the deportation of those whom they consider to be there illegally , but our excellent team in the high commission in Islamabad be work day and night with the Government of Pakistan to ensure that that do not happen to those who be in Pakistan under ARAP and acr . we be move at our good pace to bring people back , with the full co - operation of the Government of Pakistan . Military Support : Ukrainian Armed Forces what step his Department be take to provide military support to the ukrainian armed force . we continue to support Ukraine — we provide £ 2 . 3 billion of military support in the last year — and will go on do so , because Putin must not win in Ukraine . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer and for the consistency of support the British Government have show and the way they have lead our NATO ally in support of the Ukrainians right from the start . how be we go to maintain that lead in the face of another war in the middle east , a certain amount of disarray in the Congress and indeed some visible wavering among our european ally ? my right hon . friend be right that the UK have lead , and we must continue to do so . I have visit Ukraine twice this year , I host a ukrainian family for a year in my own home , and the Government have set up the British - lead international fund for Ukraine , which be on its way to deliver , I think , nearly £ 800 million of support . we have also be first with tank , with ammunition , with long - range missile and with permission , and we intend to be first with this war go forward . it be vital that we continue to give military aid to Ukraine and to show our steadfast support and leadership in Europe . have the Secretary of State have a chance , since he come into office , to meet with representative of the defence industry to talk about how we maintain that level of military aid to Ukraine and , if he have have such a meeting , what be the outcome ? yes , on several occasion , include in Kyiv and , more recently , last Thursday at the MOD , where I meet with large , medium and small defence company to discuss exactly that issue . there be a whole range of measure in place to increase the amount of arm , particularly arm replenishment , that can come through via UK company . have support Ukraine from the beginning , we must support they all the way through to the end , and we intend to do so . Armed Forces : skill for the Future what step his Department be take to ensure that the armed force have the skill require for the future . what step his Department be take to ensure that the armed force have the skill require for the future . in June 2023 , the Ministry of Defence publish the Haythornthwaite review of armed force incentivisation . multiple team be be stand up across Defence to implement all 67 recommendation , work to establish a reward and incentivisation architecture that will attract and retain skill . meanwhile , I be delighted to say that the Army have just be name the UK ' s no . 1 employer of apprentice for the third consecutive year . I be aware that the MOD be the big single employer of apprentice , with more than 15 , 000 soldier currently on the programme , and I have see the excellent training and development that take place at the Army Foundation College , which , as my right hon . friend know , be locate in Harrogate . do he agree that the apprenticeship scheme be not only bring in future talent , but ensure that those individual have the skill for the remainder of their life ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I enjoy my relatively recent visit to Harrogate . More than 95 % of all non - commission recruit across the armed force be offer apprenticeship map to their training . as he rightly say , that benefit not only Defence but the individual and the wide economy . give that the defence of our United Kingdom be reserve and education and skill be devolve , what discussion be my right hon . friend have with the devolved administration to ensure that the skill need by our british armed force be be develop across our whole United Kingdom ? the Ministry of Defence actively engage with the devolved Administrations to align education , skill and development , and will continue to do so , use the UK - wide pan - defence skill framework , which ensure that the armed force skill requirement be meet across the country and contribute to the wide economy that we share . I thank the Minister for that response . beyond the Battlefield , an independent charity in my constituency , do incredible work with veteran who be homeless , give they accommodation and some skill . I have extend an invitation to the Minister to come to Northern Ireland to visit beyond the Battlefield , so I will extend that again . I think he will be impressed — I know I be — and he will see that what we do in Northern Ireland can be do elsewhere in the United Kingdom . it be always a joy to visit Strangford — one of the most beautiful place in these island , if I may say so . I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s invitation ; I have it at the front of my mind and when I be in Northern Ireland I will ensure that I visit . Armed Forces Personnel : recruitment what step his Department be take to recruit armed force personnel . we remain committed to maintain the overall size of the armed force and recognise the importance of recruitment to achieve that . we be respond to immediate challenge with a programme aim at increase the breath of potential candidate and drive efficiency in recruitment . meanwhile , the service continue to meet all their operational commitment , keep the country and its interest safe . since my election , I have meet many new recruit during visit with the armed force parliamentary scheme , and I have always be incredibly impress by their sense of duty , their commitment to serve their country and their recognition of the great career that lie before they , but we know that there be still shortage in recruitment . how can my right hon . friend ensure that all part of the armed force recruit the right number of people , with the right mix of skill and experience to keep our nation safe in these increasingly dangerous time ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that recruitment to the armed force be mixed — some of it be good , some of it less good — across the western world . we be struggle to recruit people into our armed force , and we must redouble our effort . that be why we have have the Haythornthwaite review and the tri - service recruitment model , which I be convince will plug the gap that we have in skill and overall number . Ministry of Defence Guard Service what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of the operational MGS employment contract on application for promotion in the Ministry of Defence Guard Service . there be no evidence — [ interruption . ] order . look , I do not need member make signal to I on take question — it be quite obvious that I go from the Government side to the Opposition side . there be no evidence that the operational MOD Guard Service employment contract have have a material bearing on workflow , recruitment and retention . however , it be not possible to conduct an accurate assessment of the impact that omec have have on application from staff seek promotion , because of the way application be file . that say , the MOD Guard Service be encourage by the volume of application receive for vacancy through fair and open competition , no doubt encourage by the fact that omec term and condition of service remain highly favourable when compare with private sector security company . I thank the Minister for his response but , respectfully , I do not find it sufficient . my constituent have provide more than a decade ' s service within the Ministry of Defence Guard Service . he report that he and his contemporary be disincentivise to apply for promotion , because it would mean switch to the new OMEC contract from their legacy contract and an extra six hour ' work a week . many be leave . will the Minister promise to investigate this issue thoroughly ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady . the new way of work be pass through the trade union consultation process , of course , and in term of pay , pension , leave and sickness benefit and working hour , the MOD Guard Service perform well , as I have say , against private security company . that be why we appear to be recruit and retain well . Indo - Pacific region : Stability what step his Department be take to help ensure stability in the Indo - Pacific region . the tempo of our engagement and operation in the Indo - Pacific grow all the time on land , sea and air . we be also strengthen regional resilience among our partner to uphold freedom of navigation , deter security threat and build support for international law throughout the Indo - Pacific . I agree that relationship with several south - east asian state have reach new high as a result of partnership in area such as space and cyber as well as air and maritime capability . do my right hon . friend agree that we should do more to ensure that the United Nations convention on the law of the sea be maintain in the South China sea , work closely with our partner in the region ? my hon . friend hide his light under a bushel , because as a trade envoy in the region he will have have much to do with the improved relationship we enjoy there . furthermore , HMS Spey transit the Straits of Malacca only this weekend , demonstrate the UK ' s and the Royal Navy ' s commitment to uphold freedom of navigation in the South China sea and around . do the Minister believe the appointment of Lord Cameron as Foreign Secretary strengthen or weaken the Prime Minister ' s stance that China pose an " epoch - define challenge " to global security ? it greatly strengthen the Prime Minister ' s position . medium - sized Helicopter Industry what step his Department be take to help support the medium - sized helicopter industry in the south - west . helicopter form an important part of our integrate operating concept . through past and current investment in rotary capability , the UK industrial base remain well place to support exist and future helicopter platform . positive progress be be make towards the next stage of the competition with the three downselecte supplier : Airbus Helicopters UK , Leonardo Helicopters UK and Lockheed Martin UK . can my hon . friend confirm that the invitation to negotiate for the medium - sized helicopter will indeed be issue by the end of December ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . we be keen to get on with this , and that be certainly our intention . at the moment , we be in the process of secure final cross - Government approval . as I say , that be our aim , but I can not absolutely guarantee it . Defence Jobs what step his Department be take to support defence job across the UK . the most recent estimate show that MOD investment support more than 200 , 000 job in industry across the UK , and continue investment in defence along with the change we continue to make as part of our defence and security industrial strategy be contribute to further economic growth and prosperity across the Union . I thank the Minister for his answer . as a member from north - east Wales , I be interested in how we promote defence spending in all region of the United Kingdom , mean that there be some balance , with defence job and investment not concentrate in the same part of England every time . what can the Minister do to assure my constituent in Delyn that they will have as much opportunity as those in place such as the south - west of England ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . obviously , we strongly want to see defence expenditure benefit every part of the Union . I can confirm expenditure with industry in Wales amount to about £ 744 million . just to reassure he and show he how importantly we regard Wales , the week before last I hear I hold my small and medium - sized enterprise forum in Cardiff at Space Forge , a brilliant Welsh SME that we be support with half a million pound of funding to develop in - space manufacturing of semiconductor . that be a strong example of how we be support Welsh sme in the defence sector . RAF Surveillance Aircraft what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of RAF surveillance aircraft on UK strategy and operation overseas . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the work of the slightly less glamorous part of the Royal Air Force that do long - distance surveillance mission . they be an important part of the UK ' s defence strategy and our ability to monitor and observe what our adversary be do . their work over the past year above the north Atlantic and the high north , the Baltic , the Black sea , the eastern Mediterranean and across the middle east have be central to defence operation . the team at RAF Waddington and at Lossiemouth should be congratulate . we understand that UK surveillance asset such as Rivet Joint be provide surveillance support to Israel . I appreciate that , for reason of operational security , the Minister can not comment on the operational specific of this activity , but will he rule out the possibility that these platform be be use to support target acquisition ? while I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his initial question , he also give I an opportunity to make an important clarification . Rivet Joint be not fly in support of Israel ; it be fly to observe the risk of escalation in the region , to inform decision making in the UK MOD , and for nothing else . be my right hon . friend concern about the volcanic activity in Iceland at the moment ? the p - 8 regularly use Keflavik airport near Reykjavik . could that be interrupt by the threatened volcanic activity ? to the relief of people everywhere hope for a Christmas getaway , I be tell that this particular volcanic ash be not the same as that of last time and thus do not pose such a threat to aviation . however , we be , of course , monitor it carefully and have contingency . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . my first month as Defence Secretary have strengthen my long - hold belief that we need to strengthen our national defence as the world grow ever - more dangerous . with the challenge in Ukraine , the middle east and the Indo - Pacific , these be more contest time than any since the cold war . the serviceman and woman of our armed force be our great asset . as have be mention , as we ask they to do extraordinarily difficult thing around the world and they do deserve comfort back home . that be why I have put service accommodation at the forefront of my mission . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . will he add his thank to volunteer such as Trevor Simcock , Mal Mullet and Chris Smith , who work with the Commonwealth War Graves Commission locally in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke ? ahead of the Armistice Weekend , I be proud to join they at Burslem cemetery with my daughter Amelia to clean the headstone of 130 of our brave and fallen hero . will he add his thank and come to visit those great volunteer ? I be delighted to add my thank to my hon . friend ' s brilliant volunteer . it be an opportunity to mention from the Dispatch Box the many thousand of people who turn out across the country on Remembrance Weekend to commemorate and remember those who bravely give of themselves so that we can be here in freedom today . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Defence Secretary say recently that , despite middle east tension , we must not forget about Ukraine . I welcome that statement , but the UK ' s leadership on support for Ukraine be flag , so will Wednesday ' s autumn statement , as a minimum , confirm the commitment to match this year ' s £ 2 . 3 billion in military aid funding for next year ? I do not know when the right hon . Gentleman be last able to visit Kyiv himself , but when he do go , he will discover that the attitude there be that no country in the world have be more forward - lean and progressive in its support , and that remain the same today as it be before this conflict begin . we have train 52 , 000 ukrainian troop since 2014 . our support be not for today or tomorrow or the short term ; it be forever . what assessment have the Defence Secretary make of the strategic importance to UK national security , and indeed that of the United States , of retain british sovereignty over Diego Garcia ? it be essential that we maintain our position , to be able to assist ourselves and the United States , in Diego Garcia . I be proud that my constituency be home to hundred of armed force personnel and their family and former family , but as member on both side of the House have mention , last winter far too many of they find themselves live in accommodation that simply be not fit for purpose . can the Minister confirm how we will be get tough with the contractor who be let down our family this winter , and can we have some clarity on when all armed force family will finally be able to live in home that be fit for their hero ? I commend the hon . gentleman for raise this important matter for his constituency , and I be pleased to work with he on what we offer his service personnel . I have say that last winter be not good enough , but this year we be ramp up massively . we have at time withhold profit from contractor where they have not perform , but what I want to see from they above all be delivery . we have put in place the £ 400 million and I now want to see that deliver as improvement to house , include work be do on boiler and on damp and mould . thousand of home will be support this winter and hopefully we will be in a far well position . do my right hon . friend agree that we be more secure as a country when the world be a safe and more peaceful place , and that a successful two - state solution for the Israel and Palestine question be therefore a part of our own national security too ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about that . the way that we can start along that path be that Hamas could release the 242 innocent civilian that they be hold hostage , which include some Brits . that would open the door to start to be able to get a resolution . that be what they should do , but sadly , I doubt that they be about to . Labour Party research on waste in the Ministry of Defence show that over £ 15 billion have be squander since 2010 , so when be the Government go to get a grip on defence procurement and secure value for money for the british taxpayer ? on all the key metric there have be a significant improvement since the hon . Gentleman ' s party be in office . if you be to ask , Mr Speaker , what the key test be for a procurement system , I would say it be wartime . of course we be not ourselves directly at war , but in support Ukraine , we have see excellence in procurement , particularly at Defence Equipment and Support , get equipment — order . I call the Chair of the Select Committee , Robert Courts . may I take this opportunity to formally welcome the Secretary of State to his position ? I be grateful for his comment on military accommodation be a priority for he . the Select Committee be undertake an inquiry into that as well . one of the issue that have come up be the absence of a military uniformed accommodation officer who be responsible for continually inspect accommodation and then liaise with the contractor to ensure that the repair take place . be that something my hon . friend the Minister will consider ? I strongly congratulate my hon . friend on become Chair of the Defence Committee and I look forward to work with he . I know that , predate his appointment , he have a strong interest in accommodation , and I enjoy visit his constituency to look at the accommodation for Brize Norton . I will consider his point and write to he . in 2022 , 11 . 2 % of british Army recruit be woman . that be down from 12 . 6 % in 2020 . in 2021 , 9 % of british Army recruit be from ethnic minority background , and that be down from 11 . 7 % in 2020 . what be the Secretary of State do to urgently remedy this reduction in the diversity of recruit ? I want to make it absolutely clear that I think everyone work within the civil service as part of the Ministry of Defence and , indeed , work in the UK armed force should feel able to be represent and be a part of it . I want to challenge the hon . Lady ' s figure : the number I have for female representation between last year and this year be 10 . 4 % , rise to 11 . 5 % — it have actually go up , not down — and civilian representation at SCS level stand at 45 % . none the less , I accept the overall point that we need to see a far more balanced armed force in the future . two year ago , the Defence Select Committee undertake an inquiry into the experience of woman in the armed force . while progress have be make , the culture within defence remain unacceptable . we now understand that 60 female senior civil servant at the MOD have make allegation of sexual assault , harassment and abuse . would my right hon . friend like to comment ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for her question , and I reiterate once again my thank for all the hard work she have do on behalf of woman in defence . she be quite right : it be unacceptable . today , the permanent secretary have write to the Department with an action plan on how to deal with the specific issue my hon . friend have raise , in particular ask our non - executive director to conduct a review , so that we can ensure that what we be do stand up to muster against the norm in other large organisation . the Ukraine conflict have reinforce the need for a thriving defence industry to underpin our security . will the Secretary of State now take the opportunity to revisit his predecessor ' s policy of place so many order abroad , rather than in british industry with british worker , and in particular , the building of the fleet solid support ship in foreign yard ? the right hon . Gentleman talk about the fleet solid support ship be build in foreign yard . I can assure he that recently , I have the great pleasure of visit Harland & Wolff at its Appledore yard in north Devon . that be in the UK , and it be where a significant part of the FSS contract will be make . Rock Barracks in my constituency be home to the excellent 23 Parachute Regiment . I know the Government have invest a lot of money in new accommodation , but people be be let down . we know that Pinnacle be the problem , but it also worry I that people feel they can not approach their MP directly because of retaliation if they make a complaint . I encourage the Minister to come and visit so that we can fix this problem properly . I be alarmed to hear that . it be a pleasure to take a question from my right hon . friend , who be my constituency neighbour ; it be not far for I to travel , and I would be delighted to do so . I welcome the Minister ' s statement last week that 60 % of home with damp and mould will be receive support , because that have be such a big issue at RAF Shawbury in my constituency . can he explain what be go to happen to the other 40 % of home that have damp and mould , and will he commit to a minimum standard for service accommodation for military family ? the hon . Lady ask a very good question . to be clear , the figure of 4 , 000 home with damp and mould be for this winter : we have put in place £ 400 million of additional spending . of course , as we move into next year , we will look at what further work can be undertake so that we can deal with all the other property . will the Minister confirm that the Ministry would never put serve personnel at risk by put an open camp for illegal migrant in a serve base , and therefore any undertaking about that be worthless — that the most we will get at RAF Catterick be a closed detention centre ? I be well aware of my right hon . friend ' s concern . I be happy to meet he and discuss they far . have the MOD make any further payment in addition to the £ 480 million it pay to General Dynamics in March of this year ? I understand that subcontractor on the programme be not be pay , or be not be pay the amount they expect . be there any reason why General Dynamics should not be pay its subcontractor on this programme ? the right hon . Gentleman be very knowledgeable on these matter , and I be more than happy for he to write to I about they . the ajax contract be a firm price contract , and I be very pleased to say that we be get very positive feedback from the Household Cavalry about that platform ' s capability , its sensor and its cannon . I do not know the answer to the right hon . Gentleman ' s specific question about payment to subcontractor , so he be more than welcome to write to I . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss a british company , Christy Aerospace and Technology , which have the capability to dramatically reduce the time it take to train ukrainian pilot on F - 16s , and do he agree that we need to do everything we can to accelerate the rate at which we can get those pilot train ? it be always a pleasure to meet my hon . friend . it be always a pleasure to meet my hon . friend . he have be an absolute champion on the Ukraine issue , and I would be delighted to meet he to see what more we can do . Ian Bernard be a constituent of mine who serve in the Royal Air Force and witness the nuclear test on Christmas Island . Ian be still to receive his nuclear veteran ' s medal , and he have ask I to ask the Minister whether that omission could be rectify . I be disturb to hear that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent have not receive his medal , because they have be mint and distribute . if he would like to write to I with the detail , I will chase it up . local mosque in Bolton be collect donation , yet there seem to be major problem in get those donation and aid into Gaza . what discussion be the Department have with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the israeli Government about ensure that those donation get to those most in need ? not do so will only escalate the conflict . as I have describe , it be a complex position on the ground to get the aid all the way through , but I be happy to either meet or take detail from my hon . friend to ensure that those donation get where they be intend . Defence Ministers will be aware that the situation in Kosovo be deteriorate dramatically . can the Secretary of State give we an assurance that the current international military presence there be sufficient to counter any threat from Belgrade ? when the Supreme Allied Commander Europe ask we for additional support for the Kosovo - Serbian border , the answer be immediately yes , that weekend , and we have a battalion there now , which be do a great job . that have contribute to a lessening of tension , and we be keep a close eye on it in our conversation , to ensure that we do not see the situation erupt . this weekend we witness the third attack in a year on a commercial vessel in international water . the cargo ship Galaxy Leader have be describe by the israeli Government as British own and Japanese operate . what action will the Minister take to prevent such act of terrorism on british vessel ? we be very aware of the incident that my hon . friend describe . the US navy have a presence in the Red sea , and the Royal Navy always keep under review option to deploy there too . gurkha soldier who retire before 1997 receive a low pension than other british soldier . will the Minister update the House on the current negotiation between the UK and the Government of Nepal to solve that difficult issue ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , and I be see a bilateral committee with veteran and the nepalese ambassador on Wednesday . this be an ongoing process . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that pension scheme be extremely complicated , and in many case the gurkha pension scheme and offer to transfer subsequently represent good value for many of our brave Gurkha veteran . I be certainly in discussion with the interested party . I be afraid that I can not offer any promise at all , but nevertheless discussion be ongoing . the great south - west region be home to cut - edge defence company such as Supacat , which make military vehicle for our armed force . the Jackal 3 be an incredible vehicle that be be put to good use in Ukraine . what step be my hon . friend take to ensure that more defence job come to the south - west ? it be brilliant to see south - west colleague stand up for the defence sector in their constituency , and my hon . friend be right about Supacat — it be a brilliant platform . in February 2023 Supacat be award a £ 90 million contract by the MOD for 70 high - mobility truck vehicle , to be deliver by the end of the financial year , secure 100 job in the UK . Supacat already have two other direct contract with the MOD for the Jackal military enhancement programme , which be value at a total of £ 4 . 5 million . we must ensure that Putin do not win . we must co - operate and help with the reconstruction of Ukraine . be it not time that we start seize russian state asset to help pay for the reconstruction of Ukraine ? a long time ago , when the war start , I be Transport Secretary . we seize quite a lot of yacht and aircraft , which have still not be release , to ensure that they do not benefit from their closeness to Putin . the hon . Gentleman be right that over time we must keep crank up the different way by which we ensure that money be not flow to that regime , and we will continue to keep that under review . I believe that the ability to make virgin steel be crucial to the UK ' s defence capability . do my right hon . friend the Secretary of State agree ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . she have be a long - run champion of the steel sector and its importance to her constituent . of course , we want a smooth transition between blast furnace and electronic arc steel make technology . steel remain incredibly important to the defence sector . take the Type 26 : almost 50 % of that be british steel . that is 1 , 400 tonne per ship . that underline why it be so important that , in constituency such as my hon . friend ' s , we continue to support the steel sector . [ Official Report , 27 November 2023 , Vol . 741 , c . 6mc . ] the Secretary of State and his predecessor rightly call out the wanton and unlawful destruction of civilian infrastructure in Ukraine — home , hospital and school . why can they not show equal uproar at what be happen to civilian in Gaza ? there be a principle in international law that a country can defend itself . Ukraine be attack for absolutely no reason whatsoever . while we call on Israel , both privately and publicly , to protect civilian in whatever way it can , Hamas be use civilian as human shield , and deliberately use the infrastructure on top of they to hide behind . I would have think that the hon . Gentleman could see the difference . do the Secretary of State agree that it be vital that his counterpart in the US Administration realise that if Putin do not lose in Ukraine , the peace and security of the whole of Europe be call into question , so it be in their short and medium - term interest to make sure that Putin be see to fail ? my right hon . friend be characteristically correct about this , but I would widen that point : we be talk about the security of not just Europe , but the Indo - Pacific , and indeed the entire world . Putin must not win . level up with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on level up . this Government be commit to level up and create opportunity across all region and nation of the UK . last year , we set out our 12 levelling - up mission in the levelling - up White Paper , all principally aim at tackle regional inequality , because we believe that people ' s opportunity should be the same wherever they live , be it in a city or town , on an island , or in a rural or coastal community . I be proud to say that since 2019 this Conservative Government have commit over £ 13 billion of local growth funding to level up . through the levelling - up fund , the town deal , the UK share prosperity fund , the future high street fund and much more , we be regenerate town centre and high street , improve local transport , fund heritage asset and boost productivity , job and living standard . our recently announce long - term plan for town be provide long - term investment for 55 town , and the money be to be spend on local people ' s priority . we have launch our investment zone programme : 12 investment zone across the UK will grow key industry of the future and increase job . that include west Yorkshire ' s investment zone , announce early today , which will focus on life science . we have also make excellent progress on freeport . all freeport in England be now open for business , and we have announce a further four in Wales and Scotland . as level - up Minister , I have be lucky enough to see at first hand how we be use this transformative funding to unlock the potential of local economy and improve the everyday life of people across the UK . we recognise the good that this funding can do , so we have embark on an ambitious plan to simplify the funding landscape for local authority , lead by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State . our simplification plan describe how this Government will deliver our levelling - up White Paper ' s commitment to streamline fund in three phase of reform . first , there will be an immediate simplification of exist fund . secondly , we will establish a funding simplification doctrine , by which central Government will abide . finally , we will implement further reform at the next spending review . we have already deliver much of the first phase . for instance , we have give local authority great freedom to adjust their town deal , future high street and levelling - up fund project . we have also invite 10 local authority to become part of the fund simplification pathfinder pilot , which will give they great flexibility to move money between different fund . by increase local flexibility , we will reduce bureaucracy and inefficiency within the delivery process . the second phase of our funding simplification plan will see the Government launch a new funding simplification doctrine , which will change how central government give funding to local authority . it be clear that funding competition can drive value for money and help identify the good project for certain programme , so we will continue to deploy competition where they make sense , but we also recognise that bidding into multiple competition , especially in parallel , can place a dispro - portionate burden on local authority . the new Government doctrine will therefore ensure that we consider fully the impact on local authority when design new fund . finally , we have commit to further reform at the next spending review , include give our trailblazer mayoral combined authority in Greater Manchester and the west midland single Department - style , multi - year settlement . of course , our work to give local authority the right lever to spend funding efficiently be only one part of the picture ; of equal importance be the funding itself . as I mention early , since 2019 we have make more than £ 13 billion available to local place . as part of that , across round 1 and 2 of the levelling - up fund we commit £ 3 . 8 billion to 216 project across the country . we have listen to feedback from the first two round of the fund , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State announce in July that we would take a new approach to round 3 . as a result , we decide not to run another competition for this round . instead , we have draw on the impressive pool of bid that we be not initially able to fund through round 2 . today , I be delighted to confirm the allocation of the levelling - up fund ' s third and final round . we be invest £ 1 billion in 55 project across England , Scotland and Wales . copy of the successful allocation have be make available in the Vote Office . the sheer number of high - quality bid be testament to the enthusiasm for level up across our country and the hard work of so many hon . member in support their local area to develop strong plan for renewal . from Chorley , Mr Speaker , to Elgin , and from Doncaster to Rhyl , these local infrastructure project will restore pride in place and improve everyday life for local people . we have target funding at the place most in need , as identify through our levelling - up need metric . we have also ensure a fair geographic spread across Great Britain , include £ 122 million across six project in Scotland and £ 111 million across seven project in Wales . that mean that across all three round we have invest more than £ 1 billion in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , exceed our original funding commitment . it also mean that across all three round of the fund , the north - east and the north - west will have receive more per capita than any other region in England . they be follow closely by the east midland and by Yorkshire and the Humber . our round 3 investment double down on two of our key levelling - up mission — pride in place and improve transport — but we also recognise the key role that culture play in level up . we invest £ 1 billion on project with a cultural component in round 1 and 2 , and as part of this round we be set aside a furth £ 100 million for culture project to be announce in due course . we want to get delivery happen quickly . we will work closely with local authority to confirm that their project remain viable , and we will provide ongoing support to ensure that local place be able to deliver . we be commit to give local area the funding and power they need to deliver transformative change within their community . we have commit more than £ 13 billion of local growth funding for community the length and breadth of our country . we have invest in pride in place and reverse decade of decline . we be take long - term decision for a bright future for our country . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I start by congratulate all those area that have be successful in their bid — include Chorley , Mr Speaker . commiseration to all those area that have miss out once again , although the truth be that even the area that have win will find that this money be a drop in the ocean , compare with the £ 15 billion cut from local government funding since 2010 . only six week ago there be report that council face a £ 3 . 5 billion shortfall in their budget for this year alone . how do today ' s announcement help they face that existential threat ? at least the Government appear to have finally accept that local authority be force to spend disproportionate sum in previous round to get bid prepare , although we appear to have lurch from one extreme to the other : this time , council have not be involve in any dialogue on the bid and be possibly not even aware that their bid be be consider . will the Minister tell we what discussion have take place with local authority before decision be make ? give that the proposal be approach be a couple of year old , what assurance will he give we that they still reflect local priority ? the Government ' s methodology note say the Department cap bid for regeneration project outside priority area by local authority and region . do any project that meet the Department ' s threshold not get fund for that reason , and which one be they ? please do tell we what on earth be mean by a " funding simplification doctrine " — be it an elaborate way of say sorry ? do it apply to all government spending decision , or just to this Department because it have so patently fail to get a grip on spending that it have to have its own doctrine ? be it be do to address the concern of the National Audit Office and the Public Accounts Committee that billion of pound be be waste because the Department have engage in a programme without any understanding of its impact ? as the IPPR North say , level up have be a " litany of miss deadline , move goalpost and dysfunction " although , to be fair , it could have be talk about any Government project when it say that . do the Minister accept that the new approach announce today mean that the concern level against the Department be , in fact , valid ? with this late iteration , how do the Minister expect anyone to keep up with what this Government want when they flit around so much ? the Prime Minister announce five new priority this morning . be the project select in line with those priority , or will they all be change again to reflect this week ' s prime ministerial thinkin of course , where do this leave the hundred of project that still have not be successful ? there be no mention of any future round in the statement ; in fact , I think the Minister say that this be the final round of bidding , so where do that leave all the place that have be unsuccessful so far ? what be the plan to address those community that be crumble and those high street that be empty ? be this the end of any hope of level up for they ? even in those area that have attract funding , we know that these crumb from the table be not enough to reverse 13 year of neglect . street that be once burst with pride be shut down , rent be rise , mortgage be soar , and insecurity be still bake into the workplace . tackle those thing would be genuine levelling up , and Labour believe in give those community the power , resource and flexibility to tackle such issue in the way they think well . that be a true way of allow people to take back control . the statement offer no path ahead to deal with those issue ; it just rearrange the deckchair of what have go before . we have be leave with a fail experiment — an illusion that last as long as the press release . it have not go unnoticed that the number of conservative mp stand down at the next election have go past 50 . they know that after 14 year of stagnation , they do not have a record to defend . they be not level up ; they be give up . the hon . Gentleman misjudge the mood of the House . he talk about local government finance . last year , we give local authority an uplift of more than £ 5 billion . he ask whether any project be axe by the methodology that we use — no , they be not . as I say , we set out the methodology online , and I will ensure that there be a copy in the House of Commons Library . the hon . Gentleman ask what conversation there be with local authority ahead of any announcement . we have area team on the ground in all local authority area , which confirm with council that project be still a priority . they also confirm with council whether project could still be deliver by the deadline . no project be identify through those conversation that do not qualify this time around . far to that , the hon . Gentleman ask about funding simplification and why we be embark on that . he mention the NAO ' s concern . some of its concern be legitimate , but we look at its report and many of the figure date from March . we have spend £ 1 . 5 billion on local place since March . we announce the funding simplification plan in July , in response to the commitment we make in the levelling - up White Paper to simplify the funding landscape . finally , the hon . Gentleman describe £ 13 billion of levelling - up funding as " crumb " . that say it all about the Labour party . it do not recognise the value of anything . we be invest £ 13 billion in local priority , and Labour describe that as crumb . I leave it to the House to determine what it think of that . I be well accustomed in this place to rejection , and after round 1 and 2 of the levelling - up fund , it be disappointing not to see Brixham and Paignton recognise . however , I be delighted today to see that Brixham harbour and the EPIC centre in Torbay business park have be recognise with £ 20 million of support , which will make a huge difference . can the Minister reassure I that that money will come in good time and good order , so that we have the ability to deliver as quickly as possible in our coastal community ? absolutely . we be delighted to be fund high - tech fish and chip in Brixham . this announcement come on top of additional funding pot that we have be able to give Torbay , include the levelling - up partnership , on which I be work well with my hon . friend the Members for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) and for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) . the funding will come in due course and we will work with local authority to ensure that they can still deliver the project on time and to plan . I call the SNP spokesperson . some member may have an advantage on I in that they have see the detail of the allocation , which I have be hand just this second , so I will give a completely constituency - neutral response to the Minister ' s statement . however hard the Tories try to hide the truth , the fact be that these day , the word most people will apply before Britain be " broken " . Most people support genuine levelling up — who could argue with it ? — but when the Prime Minister ' s constituency get more than the whole of Glasgow last time around , and when most people think their high street be get bad rather than well , we have to ask what the real agenda be . will the Minister confirm how much of the money he boast have be commit since 2019 have actually be spend ? how do it compare to the overspend on HS2 , for example ? the Scottish Government have decade of experience — scottish government of various political persuasion , by the way — in successfully allocate EU funding , for example , in true partnership with local authority . what discussion do the UK Government have with the Scottish Government , give their statutory role in culture and transport , and their role in pride in place , before he make today ' s announcement ? what discussion do they have with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities to get a consensus view on what scottish local authority need ? or be this decision just be make by somebody in a ministerial office in Whitehall who be as out of touch with Scotland today as they will be out of office next year ? the hon . Gentleman describe be out of touch with Scotland ; he also mention Glasgow . I should tell he that Glasgow have receive £ 15 million in this round , so I suggest that it be he who be out of touch with Scotland . the Government have a responsibility to all people , business and community across the whole United Kingdom across all three round of the fund . as I mention in my statement , we have invest £ 1 billion of levelling - up funding in local authority in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . the hon . Gentleman should consider his argument : it seem somewhat bizarre that he be frustrate at the funding that we be spend in Scotland . he should focus on what the cash be deliver , rather than on who be deliver it . I be thrilled that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have fund the green innovation corridor in my constituency . the Government have invest ten on ten of million of pound in Wolverhampton , which be desperately need . however , speed of delivery be an issue . will the Minister meet I to discuss how the council can be encourage to deliver the project quickly ? I commit to meet my hon . friend to discuss that matter . she be a fantastic champion for her constituent in Wolverhampton , which be a key place where we be see level up in action , include the relocation of DLUHC ' s office to Wolverhampton . I be pleased that we have be able to fund my hon . friend ' s project in this round , and I be delighted to be work with she on it . I call the Chairman of the Select Committee . the Minister have say a lot about input , but what be important , in the end , be output and the change that be make . will the Minister say which indicator have show a reduction in inequality between the south - east and the north since this funding begin , and in particular whether the productivity gap have reduce at all ? finally , I be surprised there be no mention of the trailblazer project in Manchester and Birmingham and their roll - out to the other mayoral combine authority . I understand that they will be roll out but with reduced power for the rest of the combined authority . will the Minister tell we exactly what the situation be ? please do not ask we to wait for Wednesday ' s statement . I read about it in the Financial Times on Saturday , and if the Financial Times can be tell on Saturday , I be sure this House can be tell today . I be very grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee . as I say in my statement , across all three round of the fund , the north - east and the north - west have receive more per capita than any other region in England . he ask about the specific on productivity improvement and so on , and I will write to he and his Committee about that . regard the trailblazer deal , I have not read the piece in the Financial Times , but I will do so as soon as the statement be finish . I would encourage he to wait until Wednesday . the Mid Cornwall Metro be a levelling - up infrastructure project to upgrade railway connectivity across Cornwall . it will bring huge benefit both economically and socially . I be pleased to hear the Minister say that the Government be keen to get on with deliver the project . I ask he to use his office to work with the Department for Transport , the Treasury and Cornwall Council to get the final business case over the line and the funding release , so that we can get on with the project . absolutely . there be few great champion for Cornwall in this House than my hon . friend , and I shall work with he to ensure that the business case be sign off as soon as possible and that we be able to see level up in Cornwall . I be delighted that I will be visit Cornwall in the very near future to sign a devolution deal . I be not sure whether the Minister live in some parallel universe , but he come to the Dispatch Box today to talk about the simplification of the process — a process that both he and the Secretary of State have be implement — as though it be nothing to do with they . County Durham have one successful bid in the first round , which happen to be in Bishop Auckland — surprise , surprise — the constituency of the former levelling - up Minister . in round 2 , Durham County Council be ask to put in bid and spend hundred of thousand of pound of taxpayer ' money do so . once the bid be in , it be tell that they would not be consider because it have have a successful one in round 1 . will the Minister compensate Durham County Council for the money it have waste , not through its own inefficiency but because he seem to chip , chop and change the rule when he like ? the right hon . member talk about the process that be own by my Department . as I say , we be embark on this ambitious funding simplification agenda purely on the basis of some of the point that he have raise . local authority , member of this House and the Select Committee be concern about the number of competition that be involve in various Government fund . we be address that through our funding simplification doctrine . the right hon . Gentleman talk about Durham . I simply say to he that the international territorial level region for the Tees Valley in Durham have receive eight project across the round of the levelling - up fund . that equate to £ 128 per capita in the region , which be one of the high amount . I would ask he to welcome that . Bolton be open its new £ 40 million Institute of Medical Sciences , which follow an early £ 50 million levelling - up fund investment . will my hon . friend confirm that the late £ 20 million of funding for Bolton town centre , for which I be very grateful , be not the end of his commitment to the people of Bolton ? it could not be the end of the levelling - up commitment in Bolton , because of the effort of my hon . friend , who work so hard for his constituent . I be delighted that Bolton be receive money in this round , and I will work with he to ensure that level up continue in his part of the world . in his statement , the Minister refer to Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland , the north - east , the north - west , the east midland , and Yorkshire and the Humber . there be no mention of the south - west . how can this Conservative Government claim that they want to level up community when Conservative - run Devon County Council can not even level up the pothole ? I be delighted to confirm for the hon . member that the south - west region have receive 20 project across the round of the levelling - up fund to a total value of £ 409 million . that work out at about £ 71 per capita . I thank the hon . member . may I warmly welcome the announcement of over £ 18 million to regenerate Gosport ' s historic waterfront ? it will drive job , attract visitor and drum up a huge amount of economic prosperity for the area , which have such a rich cultural heritage but have be overlook for so long . this excellent bid be , of course , submit under the previous Conservative - lead administration . the council have since change hand and it will be for the liberal Democrat leadership to deliver on it . this be a Lib Dem leadership that have already pay back £ 1 . 3 million of brownfield land release funding to the government because it be unable to spend it . what message do the Minister have for the council to ensure that the money be spend in a timely way to level up Gosport and drive prosperity for the region ? I be delighted that Gosport be able to receive funding in this round . the funding in Gosport must be spend on the project priority . the council be unable to reallocate that funding to some other random Lib Dem project that it have in mind ; it have to deliver on the priority that my hon . Friend mention . there be an adjustment process that local authority can work on with my Department to ensure that challenge around inflation , for example , can be meet . however , the project aim must still be meet , and I shall work with my hon . friend and her local authority to ensure that they be . can the Minister confirm that Rochdale receive no funding in this round , in either path ? can he also explain to my constituent why , even if we have a successful bid , which we would have welcome , it would have be dwarf by the cut make to health , education and , of course , our local authority ? those be the thing , ultimately , that be destroy the quality of life in my constituency . I would not accept the hon . member ' s synopsis . as I say early , we give council an uplift of £ 5 billion last year to meet priority in their area . I can not answer the hon . member ' s question today on Rochdale , but I shall write to he as soon as this statement be over . I particularly welcome the £ 4 . 1 million for the Chambers Institute in Peebles , the £ 6 . 8 million for walk and cycleway in Clydesdale and the £ 13 . 8 million for transport in Dumfries and Galloway , but I pay particular tribute to the trustee of the Annan Harbour Action Group for its compelling bid , which secure £ 11 . 9 million to regenerate Annan Harbour . these be all essentially rural project . do my hon . friend agree that rural area across the United Kingdom must be at the core of level up ? there be no great champion for level up in rural area than my right hon . friend . I be delighted that we have be able to give Dumfries and Galloway a chunk of money in this round , and I be sure that he will work to ensure that his local authority put it to good use . I be delighted to be work with he on do just that . I confess that I be very disappointed by today ' s announcement , because we have be try to get some money for the Rhondda tunnel , which would be an enormous enhancement to the top end of the Rhondda Fawr . successive Government Ministers have tell I personally that we should apply under round 2 , and then tell the local authority that it could not apply under round two . I be then tell personally that we should apply under round 3 , and now it turn out that there be no such thing as a round 3 , so we never have an opportunity to make a bid at all — of any kind whatsoever . I be hopeful that the Minister will now say that the Government be not close the door on the Rhondda tunnel , and that there will be another chance for we to make an application to the Government for the £ 20 million that we need for one of the poor area in the country . I understand the hon . member ' s concern . to be absolutely clear , I have not make any such commitment to he . level up be an agenda that the Government be focus on ; this be not the end of the road for level up , and I would be delighted to come to Rhondda , not least because Rhondda receive money through round 1 of the levelling - up fund — a total of £ 3 . 6 million . the Minister know full well how much Bingley have be neglect and let down by Labour - run Bradford Council , largely because I keep tell he about it . Bingley need regeneration , and it particularly need a new swimming pool , so can he tell I what the Government will do to help Bingley receive the swimming pool and the regeneration that it desperately need ? I be afraid that the people of Bingley can not trust Bradford Council to deliver those for they . I understand the plight of the people of Bingley because , as my hon . Friend say , he raise it with I at every possible opportunity . I will work with he to see what funding stream be available to tackle the mess leave behind by Labour - run Bradford Council , and to fund Bingley swimming pool . People in Northern Ireland will be angry tonight that not one penny of a fund that the Minister describe as create opportunity across all region and nation of the UK , and aim at tackle regional inequality , be allocate to Northern Ireland . he give the flimsy excuse that it be because the Northern Ireland Executive be not up and run . the Northern Ireland Executive do not have any input into the previous round , and would not have have any into this round . of course , they would not even have need to seek new allocation , because no new application be need . be this not a case of blatant , pathetic , transparent economic blackmail to try to get the Assembly up and run again , without address the reason why it fall , and of pour the money into key conservative marginal constituency to bolster party support ? I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s frustration that we have be unable to fund project in Northern Ireland this time around . as I indicate to he , that be because of a lack of an Executive in Northern Ireland . I assure he that we have set aside what Northern Ireland ' s allocation would have be in this round , and I commit to work with he and his colleague to ensure that Northern Ireland receive the full benefit of level up . I thank my hon . friend for his statement . I have lose my voice cheer for the £ 1 . 1 million for Swadlincote town . this be the first time in 50 year that government money have be put into regenerate that area , which be the heart of South Derbyshire , and I thank he very much indeed . I have have a word with the chief executive of the new Labour council , and I will sit on the board that ensure we have spade in the ground . I thank the Minister very much . I be delighted to be able to give my hon . friend ' s constituency the funding this time around . she be an extremely efficient champion for the people of Derbyshire , and I be delighted that we have be able to fund the project . I can be one of this Government ' s sharp critic , often justifiably , but today I thank the Minister and his predecessor , the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , whom I harass relentlessly since the round two bid for Denton be reject . I be so pleased that today " Destination Denton " , the project that we put forward , will receive nearly £ 17 million . give that I be the constituency Member of Parliament , and be involve in put the bid together , what assurance can the Minister give I that I will be involve in ensure that the project come to fruition ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his kind word . we expect local authority to work with their member of Parliament , who be key community stakeholder , in deliver the bid . a project adjustment request process be available to local authority if project need to be adjust because of change in inflation and so on ; a key thing that I ask for be that Members of Parliament be consult in that process , and I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman be consult at all turn . I congratulate the new Minister on the energy and purpose that he have bring to the vital task of level up the country , and particularly small city and large town , which be largely overlook by the Labour Government during 13 year of focus on metropolitan city . the £ 11 million award to the Greyfriars and Eastgate project in Gloucester will deliver a new shopping centre , indoor market and much more besides , as well as put a roof for the first time in 60 year on the beautiful 13th - century Greyfriars friary . that will make a huge difference , alongside the King ' s Quarter project that have already be fund by the local council and the Government . do the Minister agree that if the shadow levelling - up Minister , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , want to see an example of give up in this country , he be welcome to visit the car park buy by a previous Labour administration for £ 11 million and later sell for £ 1 ? that be why Gloucester , like the rest of the country , need to keep regeneration in the right hand . Gloucester could not have a well champion than my hon . friend ; he be a fantastic champion for it . when I take on this job , one of my first conversation be with he about the urgent need for levelling - up funding in Gloucester . I be delighted that we have be able to fund his project this time around . as he say , it be important that we keep Gloucester in conservative hand . my goodness , what a con this be . early this year , we hear from the National Audit Office that of the £ 9 . 5 billion allocate in the first round , only £ 1 billion have be spend . perhaps the Minister can say how much have be spend now . be this not much like any other Tory slogan — meaningless in reality ? once again , there be nothing for Ross , Skye and Lochaber . we hear from the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) about the importance of rural area , but there be nothing for the Portree harbour bid , which would have make such a difference . I invite the Secretary of State and his ministerial team to my constituency . we will drive around and look at all the site of the project that be fund by the European Union — road , bridge , harbour , sport facility . that money would have come if we have stay in the European Union , as Scotland vote to do . we be miss out on € 750 billion that the EU be invest in regeneration , and once again we be get nothing — zip — from this Tory Government . the right hon . Gentleman be wrong . I shall write to he follow the statement on exactly how much UK share prosperity fund his area have receive , and I hope that when I do , he will come back to the Chamber to update the House on the fact of the matter . he ask how much money have be spend since the National Audit Office release the figure in March : £ 1 . 5 billion have be spend since then , but I would be delighted to come up and visit the humble crofter ' s constituency . pardon I for have an unfashionable thatcherite point of view , but much well than Government , taxpayer - fund levelling up be private sector level up . although I thank the Secretary of State for have release some money for Gainsborough , £ 300 million of private sector level up , namely for RAF Scampton , be at risk in my constituency . will the Minister meet I after the court case to ensure that , whatever its result , we get on with level up ? for instance , the roof of the officer ' mess alone will cost half a million pound . the roof of the hangar be decay . the site will not be viable unless private sector investment be unleash and the Home Office get on with it . I would be delighted to meet my right hon . friend , but one of the key way to unlock private investment in the Greater Lincolnshire area be to progress with the devolution deal . I shall be delighted to meet he to discuss that far . what consideration have the Minister give to the formation of development corporation to deliver specific project ? as he may be aware , I represent a Durham constituency that include one of the poor community in the country . there have be a failure to leverage investment into the county , most notably in round 2 but also in round 3 , and to resolve some very serious structural problem . I can identify lot of problem in the ABC street in Easington , and the numbered street in Horden and Peterlee town centre . we have two very successful development corporation . may I remind the Minister that Durham be run by a coalition of Conservatives , Lib Dems and independent that be fail to deliver ? I hear the hon . Gentleman ' s plea for more development corporation . we be obviously on an ambitious journey with the north - east to devolve far through the new mayoral North East Combined Authority . that will be a key way to help ensure level up in his part of the world . it be welcome to hear the news about Torbay today — take the total regeneration funding available up to £ 100 million , which will hopefully be match by a similar amount come in from the private sector . we be of course in the process of negotiate the levelling - up partnership , and some of the scheme in that be now be deal with via the levelling - up fund . what implication be there for the levelling - up partnership and will there be an opportunity to re - look at other scheme that can now form part of it ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for highlight just how much levelling - up investment Torbay be get under this Conservative Government . we be work with the local authority , as he know , on the levelling - up partnership , and with local Members of Parliament and key stakeholder . project have be address by this funding today , but we will look at other project to fund through the levelling - up partnership . it be deeply frustrating to hear the Minister say that round 3 be do by review round 2 project , which mean the Pencoed level crossing in my constituency be reject again . that mean my constituency have receive zero levelling - up funding . there be a wide concern in local authority across the UK that level 2 round , which may not start until the next financial year , will not have continuation of funding into 2026 , because the Minister have say that this will potentially all end in 2025 . will he confirm that any project that start next year from round 2 funding will be fund fully for completion of project , even if it go beyond the Minister ' s confirm funding for 2025 ? I will write to the hon . gentleman on the specific of his question . without read my note , my understanding be that round 2 have to be spend by the end of March 2025 , but I shall write to he to confirm after this session . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and in particular the £ 20 million that be announce for Halesowen town centre . Halesowen have recover well from the pandemic , not least because of the work of the local business improvement district . this further investment will be a secure investment in the future of Halesowen , and I very much welcome it today . I be delighted that Halesowen be receive funding in this round of the levelling - up fund . my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for his constituent in Halesowen and I look forward to work with he to ensure that the project be deliver as quickly as possible . Northern Ireland be miss out on this . it would be nice if we have a devolve Executive work with the Department , but that have not be the case in the past anyway , even whenever the Executive be sit , so the Minister ' s rationale simply do not stack up . can he confirm that the money for Northern Ireland , which have be deny today , will be ringfence , and what sort of timescale he envisage — include without a restore executive — for spend that ? will there be a fresh round 3 in Northern Ireland , or will it too be a continuation of round 2 ? I do not believe it be accurate to say that Northern Ireland be not benefit . as I have already outline , we have spend £ 120 million across the levelling - up fund in Northern Ireland , and we will continue to work with Northern Ireland community on the delivery of those project . with regard to the hon . Gentleman ' s other question , I will be happy to write to he after this session but , as I say , the £ 30 million that would have be spend in this round have be set aside for level up in Northern Ireland . I welcome the £ 18 million for Mexborough and Moorends in my home city of Doncaster , but it do mean that Edlington in my constituency have miss out again . my constituent be miss a leisure centre , a decent shop high street and decent quality housing . this need to be address , because unfortunately we have have decade and decade of neglect from the socialist Labour council , which I know be play party politic . will the Minister and the Secretary of State , who on his visit promise he would help fund this , meet I to find out what we can do for my constituent in Edlington ? it be not fair that they have not at least get a leisure centre . I think both you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and my hon . friend know how amazing a community Doncaster be . we want to do what we can to help level up in Doncaster , which be why we have be delighted to fund bid there in this round . I appreciate my hon . friend ' s concern that Edlington be not get its swimming pool , and I shall meet he at the early possible opportunity to look at different way that we could fund a pool in Edlington . I know that he be a fantastic champion for constituent in that community , and I will continue to work with he to do what we can to level up there . I be here 10 month ago after the conclusion of round 2 ; none of Leeds — a city of 800 , 000 people in eight constituency — be successful . today , one bid be successful . what about the six constituency in Leeds that have not receive levelling - up money ? we have five bid from round 2 that be on the table , and councillor and council officer have work hard on they . what be their status ? be there go to be another round ? where can we go to deliver that project , include transport and employment land in my constituency , which would deliver thousand of job ? as the hon . Member mention , we be fund Leeds in this round for the " Heart of Holbeck " scheme , with almost £ 16 million of funding . as I say in my statement , Leeds be also the beneficiary of a new investment zone announce early today . this Government have continue to focus on level up , and I will work with he to ensure that the benefit of that can be feel in Leeds and across West Yorkshire . I be delighted that the Isle of Wight ' s bid have be accept , and I be grateful to the Minister for push it through . our cycle group — CYCLEWight — have raise with I the condition of current cycle route on the Island . as well as this funding deliver new route — especially the west Wight cycle route , which be incredibly important — when we be reconfirm the bid , will we be able to tweak element of it so that we can spend some of that money on improve and repair the exist cycle route , namely Sandown to Newport ? I apologise to my hon . friend that I be not able to give he that assurance today . we have an adjustment process where we work with local authority to ensure that the project that they have receive funding for can still be deliver . if that be not the case , we will work with they to see what can be deliver through the bid . I be happy to work with my hon . friend to do just that . it be a really positive day for my beautiful part of West Yorkshire : £ 16 . 6 million for Huddersfield open market regeneration ; and £ 48 million for the Penistone line rail upgrade , with station in Honley and Brockholes in my constituency — and it continue through the patch of my hon . friend the Members for Dewsbury ( Mark Eastwood ) and Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) . also today we have have the announcement of the West Yorkshire investment zone , which be anchor around the national health innovation campus at the University of Huddersfield . will the Minister ensure that his excellent official continue to work with the really hard - work officer at Kirklees Council , lead by David Shepherd , to ensure that those transformative project be deliver on time to the benefit of my community ? I be really pleased to hear a positive voice for West Yorkshire in this House and to see some of the investment that we be make in my hon . friend ' s community . I know how important the Penistone to Stocksbridge line upgrade be to he and to my hon . friend the Member for Dewsbury ( Mark Eastwood ) , and I be delighted that we have be able to fund it through this round . I will of course work with he to ensure that its benefit be feel right across West Yorkshire and that it be implement as soon as possible . I thank the Minister for his statement . I be disappointed that that levelling - up fund bid submit by Somerset Council for the much - need regeneration work in the rural market town of Frome and Wincanton have not be successful . in the Somerton and Langport area , we have be without a train station since the 1960 . the Langport Transport Group ' s joint proposal with Somerset Council have not receive an update to their bid to the restore your railway fund since July 2022 . will the Minister provide an update and support I to bring much - need rail connection to the area ? I be responsible for many thing , but not the restore your railway fund ; I ask the hon . Lady to contact the Department for Transport for assurance on that . however , I assure she that across the Dorset and Somerset region , we have be able to fund five project to the tune of £ 87 million . I warmly welcome the UK Government confirm Moray ' s levelling - up bid of over £ 18 million today . when the Minister write to I , he say project adjustment may need to take place . one reason that there may need to be an adjustment in Moray be because the announcement follow hot on the heel of Moray receive £ 20 million in the town fund just last month . will he work with I and the excellent local council leader , Councillor Kathleen Robertson , to look at the proposal for Moray leisure centre ? there be an opportunity to also unlock private sector investment , which would mean more resource come to Moray for people across the region . do he also agree that local SNP politician who be very negative when we be not successful in round 2 will surely be extremely positive in welcome this investment from the UK Government ? I hope every politician be as positive about Moray and its future as my hon . friend . it be fantastic that we be fund Moray ' s bid today . as he say , it build on its success with the long - term plan for town . I be happy to work with he to ensure that the priority of the local people in Moray be meet through both fund . I will work with he and his excellent conservative council leader to ensure that that happen . the community of Devonport and Stonehouse be some of the poor in the country , so it feel like a punch in the gut when our round 2 bid be reject . I thank the Minister for agree to the project in round 3 . however , the bid we put together be deliver 10 month ago . since then , Plymouth ' s ambition have not stop . we have part - fund element and change other part . will the Minister set out what the adjustment mean ? for a community like Plymouth , which be try to create more job and bring in private sector investment , how can the adjustment mechanism ensure that we get all the £ 19 . 9 million we bid for , and not just part of it , because our bid have change , quite reasonably , because of inflation and other economic challenge and opportunity over the last year ? I be delighted about the work we be do in Plymouth to level up , whether that be the Plymouth freeport or the further investment we be give Plymouth today . the hon . Gentleman ask specifically about the project adjustment request process . a local authority can amend its bid by up to 30 % . the bid be £ 19 . 9 million , so it will have flexibility on about £ 6 million . if any adjustment need to be make to a project , his local authority should contact my official as soon as possible . we will work with they to reprofile the fund and ensure that his constituent and people across Plymouth be able to benefit properly from the funding . I thank my hon . friend for his work . as soon as I hear the good news , I be straight on the phone to our excellent council leader , Rob Waltham , duly confirm that we be absolutely positioned to bring these project forward . I hope the Minister can find time to visit Scunthorpe and see some of the project . I would be very happy to show he around and I know that the good people of Scunthorpe would give he a very warm welcome . I be very grateful to my hon . friend . I have have many conversation with her council leader about devolution in Greater Lincolnshire . I look forward to visit Scunthorpe very soon , hopefully with further good news on that front . I would be delighted to be show around by my hon . friend . here ' s a first : I would like to thank the Minister . at last , after over two year of wait and at significant cost to our council , the Government have eventually grant South Shields a piecemeal sum of money . he also know that , thank to tory economic failure , the cost of deliver our bid be now much high . I have just hear his response to my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , but can he confirm whether it mean that in South Shields we be get more or less money now ? I be delighted to be able to give the hon . Lady the good news for South Shields today , build on the future high street fund , which I know she be aware of , in her constituency . the money we announce today for South Shields — £ 20 million — will be give to South Shields to spend on the bid it outline . there will not be additional funding come in on top of that , but the project adjustment request allow the council in her constituency to move money around within the bid to account for inflation and other thing . I be delighted that we be able to be level up in South Shields , with £ 20 million today on top of the future high street fund that we have already give to her constituency . today be a very happy day for Bolton , with £ 20 million go to the Bolton town centre north regeneration project . that mean that Bolton , across all its three constituency hold by both Tory and Labour MPs , have have almost £ 100 million since 2019 . may I extend an invitation to the Minister to visit Bolton when he go next door to Chorley , as part of his visit to the north ? today be a very happy day for level up . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , of whom I be very fond , speak about give up , but I say that today be a day for we all to cheer up . I quite agree with my hon . friend . he be a fantastic champion for his constituent in Bolton , and I be delighted that he have be able to get this funding for they today . I would be delighted to visit Bolton at the early opportunity to see he in action in his community . the £ 20 million announce for Wythenshawe town centre today be testament to the hard - work leadership team at Manchester City Council . however , my personal thank go to Gavin Taylor from the Far East Consortium , who help I kickstart this project just over two year ago . my thank also go to the Minister . the money unlock , with all the other thing , the potential for 2 , 000 much - need home . without sound like Oliver Twist , may I ask the Minister to talk to his colleague at the Department of Health and Social Care and request that they look again at the exciting plan at Wythenshawe Hospital just up the road , which could deliver an extra 1 , 000 home on top ? I be pleased that the hon . Gentleman have be successful . he be quite right to praise his council official , because his bid be one of the high scoring bid that we have be able to afford money to in this round . I be pleased to be able to grant it , and I be happy to work with he on how we can level up far in Wythenshawe and elsewhere across Manchester . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement , with the investment for Billingham in the Tees Valley and the extension to our freeport . however , Darlington narrowly miss out in round one , two and three of the levelling - up fund . the Minister , who be from the north - east himself , will be familiar with the phrase " shy bairn " . what advice can he give I in respect of the Darlington project that still need funding ? my hon . friend be an amazing champion for Darlington . without he , the great work that we be do in level up in Darlington would not be happen . that include : the investment that we be make into Darlington rail station ; the investment that the Treasury have make , bring new civil service job to Darlington ; the buying back of Teesside airport by Tees Valley Mayor Ben Houchen ; and the Darlington town deal . all those thing be dependent on my hon . friend , who be a fantastic champion for Darlington , and his former council leader , Councillor Jonathan Dulston , who have do an amazing job . I will continue to work with he and other to level up across the Tees Valley . my first correspondence to the Government since be elect be to ask the Secretary of State to look again at the levelling - up bid for Shawfield in my constituency . I be delighted that , after only a month in this place , he have award £ 14 million to that project . it will be a challenge to keep that up , I suspect . this be a really important project , which not only unlock huge investment in my constituency but clear up a toxic legacy where , in the 19th century , the world ' s large chemical factory once be . it will make a huge difference to my constituency . the Minister have be ask a number of time to reflect on the cost for local authority in come up with these bid , and I do not think that we have have an answer yet . as part of his review , will he look at those significant cost ? I know that organisation in my constituency such as Clyde Gateway and South Lanarkshire Council spend huge amount of time , expertise and money pull together bid , which they then think be dead ; now they realise that the project have a second chance . will he think about the total cost involve and reimburse local authority for they ? I be grateful to the hon . member for welcome this funding . I be sure his letter to the Secretary of State have a key decision - make role in that . we be make capacity fund available within the Department to help local authority where they come up against further challenge in the delivery of these project . as he have rightly identify , these project be submit some time ago , so adjustment will need to be make . I can not give refund , unfortunately , but our funding simplification programme be all about ensure that we step forward to a simple version of funding that meet council ' need , rather than ask council to meet the need of various funding stream . I be delighted to see Billingham award £ 20 million of levelling - up money , which come on the back of £ 16 . 5 million for Stockton , £ 20 million for Yarm and Eaglescliffe and £ 23 . 9 million for Thornaby . for year , Stockton ' s Labour council say that it do not have the money to sort out the eyesore that be the Golden Eagle Hotel in Thornaby , but for three year it have have the Government money to sort it out and it have make no progress whatsoever . do the Minister agree that it need to pull its finger out , and will he meet I to see if there be any way we can make that happen ? what an amazing champion for the people of Stockton my hon . friend be . in Stockton , we be deliver town fund in Thornaby , future high street fund in Stockton High Street and levelling - up funding in Yarm and Eaglescliffe , and today we have confirm levelling - up funding in Billingham . there be no place in this country that be receive such love and attention from this Government , and it be thank to the hard work of my hon . friend , as well as people such as the Tees Valley Mayor , Ben Houchen , and local councillor in Stockton such as Councillor Niall Innes , who I know be particularly keen on see this bid deliver . I shall be happy to work with my hon . friend to ensure that the Golden Eagle Hotel be sort out as soon as possible and to deliver on his priority through the town deal . it would help the House to come to a judgment on the funding simplification plan and the funding simplification doctrine if we understand the complexity of the current system of assessment of need . try as I might , and I have look at the White Paper and various other document , I can not find a single concise explanation . could the Minister write to I , and perhaps place a copy of his reply in the Library , to explain how the current system have get we to this position ? I would be happy to do that , but we currently operate more than 70 different local growth fund across 17 different department . I think that demonstrate the complexity that local authority and other stakeholder , community group and so on must navigate to try to get cash for their area . that be why we be embark on this funding simplification plan , and I be happy to work with he to ensure that it meet the need of his constituent . today ' s announcement of nearly £ 20 million for the Vale of Clwyd through the levelling - up fund be fantastic news for redevelopment project in Rhyl , Prestatyn , Denbigh and elsewhere , and I look forward to work with the local authority on that . by my calculation , Denbighshire be set to receive £ 63 . 7 million through local growth fund . will my hon . friend visit the area , as I think he hope to do , and will he provide an update on levelling - up partnership in Wales ? on levelling - up partnership in Wales , I would ask my hon . friend to watch this space , but he be a fantastic champion for his constituent in Denbighshire . I visit Rhyl early this year for the wedding of another member , but I would be delighted to visit again to see the work that my hon . friend be do and to see how we can ensure his constituent feel level up . I thank the Minister for his enthusiasm in his answer to question . ard and North Down Borough Council have a project about mining in Conlig , which go back to the early 19th century ; it also have the Somme centre , which commemorate and run a programme about the first world war ; and part of another project be to do something on the second world war . the Minister have kindly indicate that money that would have be go to Northern Ireland will be ringfence or keep aside . can he give I and other Members from Northern Ireland a direction for what we should do to ensure that the chief executive of Ards and North Down Borough Council , Stephen Reid , can pursue , and get the money for , this tourism project ? I would be delighted to meet the hon . Gentleman to discuss the project far . I would say to he and his colleague in Northern Ireland that the key thing be that the UK Government and , I think , everyone in this House want to see the Northern Ireland Executive restore . when they be restore , we can discuss how good to implement levelling up in his constituency and across Northern Ireland . I thank the Minister for the further funding award for Blackpool , mean that we have now receive well over £ 400 million of additional Government investment since 2019 . the Minister will be aware of the partnership work between Blackpool Council and his Department to deliver a levelling - up project in Revoe and Bond Street in my constituency . be he able to meet I to see how we can get this project over the line and deliver for those community ? I be delighted to confirm that more than £ 15 million of investment be come into Blackpool from round 3 of the levelling - up fund , announce today . that build on the other investment we be make in Blackpool , which my hon . Friend mention . I will work with he on the project he have outline , to see what can be do to ensure they be deliver in a timely manner . I echo my hon . friend the Member for Colne Valley ( Jason McCartney ) , who say that today be a positive day . like he , I thank David Shepherd of Kirklees Council . after campaign for an upgrade since 2018 , the £ 48 million for the Penistone line be fantastic news for I and my constituent . this be on top of the £ 44 . 8 million secure for Dewsbury town centre and the £ 318 , 000 for Shelley football club . will my hon . friend agree to come to visit the Penistone line user group , the Dewsbury town board and the team at Shelley FC to celebrate these amazing levelling - up success ? what an amazing champion for the people of Dewsbury — I be not sure that any Member of Parliament for Dewsbury have ever deliver as much investment as my hon . friend . I would be delighted to visit his constituency to see some of those project , and I will do so as soon as I be available . Greenfield , around which the Delyn constituency bid be structure , be in the top 10 % of area of deprivation in Wales . as the constituency bid have again be unsuccessful , make a total of seven unsuccessful bid across both Delyn and Alyn and Deeside , which together make up my county council area of Flintshire , can the Minister explain to the people of Greenfield and Flintshire why , just like the Welsh Government , the UK Government do not seem to care about their future prosperity ? if they do , will he at least take this opportunity to approve the joint Flintshire and Wrexham investment zone bid ? as I say in my statement , we have deliver more than £ 1 billion of funding in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland across all three round of the levelling - up fund . I be disappointed to hear my hon . friend ' s question , as he know all too well that this Conservative Government care about the people of Wales . Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 9 ) ) , that the order of 17 May 2023 in the last session of Parliament ( Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill : Programme ) be varied as follow : ( 1 ) paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the order shall be omit . ( 2 ) proceeding on consideration and Third reading shall be take in one day in accordance with the follow provision of this order . ( 3 ) proceeding on consideration — ( a ) shall be take in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . proceeding time for conclusion of proceeding New Clauses and new schedule relate to , and amendment to , Part 1 three hour before the moment of interruption remain proceeding on consideration one hour before the moment of interruption ( 4 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption . — ( Mr Gagan Mohindra . ) Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill consideration of Bill , as amend in the Committee New Clause 5 - collective submission " ( 1 ) where the CMA consider that — ( a ) the condition in section 38 ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) be meet in relation to a single transaction between the designate undertaking and two or more third party , and ( b ) the third party be capable of act jointly in relation to final offer payment term relate to the transaction , the CMA may exercise the power in section 38 ( 1 ) to invite the third party ( the " joined third party " ) to make a single submission to the CMA of final offer payment term that the joined third party collectively regard as fair and reasonable for the transaction . ( 2 ) where the CMA proceed in reliance on subsection ( 1 ) , section 39 to 43 apply as if — ( a ) in section 39 ( 4 ) reference to " the third party " be to any one or more of the joined third party ; ( b ) all other reference to " the third party " be to the joined third party . ( 3 ) where the CMA consider that — ( a ) the condition in section 38 ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) be meet in relation to two or more transaction between the designate undertaking and two or more third party , ( b ) the same term as to payment be capable of apply to the transaction , and ( c ) the third party be capable of act jointly in relation to final offer payment term relate to the transaction , the CMA may exercise the power in section 38 ( 1 ) to invite the third party ( the " group third party " ) to make a single submission to the CMA of final offer payment term that the group third party collectively regard as fair and reasonable for the transaction ( the " group transaction " ) . ( 4 ) where the CMA proceed in reliance on subsection ( 3 ) , section 39 to 43 apply as if — ( a ) in the follow provision , reference to " the third party " be to any one or more of the group third party — ( i ) section 39 ( 4 ) ; ( ii ) section 40 ( 2 ) ( b ) ; ( iii ) section 41 ( 1 ) ( b ) ; ( iv ) section 42 ( 2 ) ; ( b ) all other reference to " the third party " be to the group third party ; ( c ) in section 42 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , the reference to " the transaction " be to any one or more of the group transaction ; ( d ) all other reference to " the transaction " be to the group transaction . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this new clause ( which would be insert into chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Bill ) provide for two or more third party to make a single collective submission of final offer payment term . bring up , and read the first time . 4 . 43 pm I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss : government new clause 6 . new clause 23 — Digital Markets Unit and CMA : annual statement to House of Commons — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , once a year , make a write statement to the House of Commons give the Secretary of State ' s assessment of the conduct and operation of — ( a ) the Digital Markets Unit , and ( b ) the CMA as a whole . ( 2 ) the first statement must be make by 1 February 2024 . ( 3 ) a further statement must be make by 1 February each subsequent year . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make a write statement about the conduct and operation of the DMU and CMA . new clause 27 — appointment of senior director of the DMU — " the senior director of the Digital Markets Unit must be appoint by the Secretary of State . " this new clause provide that the senior director of the DMU must be appoint by the Secretary of State . new clause 28 — duty of the cma : Citizens interest provision — " ( 1 ) the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 25 ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3A ) when carry out its function in relation to the regulation of competition in digital market under Part 1 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 , the CMA must seek to promote competition , both within and outside the United Kingdom , for the benefit of consumer and citizen . " " this new clause would give the cma a duty to further the interest of citizen – as well as consumer – when carry out its digital market function under Part 1 of the Bill . amendment 176 , in clause 2 , page 2 , leave out line 20 and 21 and insert — " ( b ) distinctive digital characteristic give rise to competition law concern such that the undertaking have a position of strategic significance ( see section 6 ) . " this amendment be link to Amendment 182 . amendment 206 , page 2 , line 25 , after " chapter " insert " , take account of analysis undertake by the CMA on similar issue that have be the subject of public consultation . " this amendment aim to ensure that the CMA be able to draw on previous analysis on issue relevant to the regulatory regime . amendment 177 , page 2 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) the CMA must publish term of reference set out a summary of the evidence base for make a finding of substantial and entrenched market power or of a position of strategic significance . ( 6 ) the term of reference must include a detailed statement of the competition law concern arise from these characteristic and the relationship between the designate digital activity and other activity . ( 7 ) activity with no reasonable prospect of adverse competitive effect link to digital activity must be refer to as unrelated activity and the term of reference must expressly state that unrelated activity be not cover by the designation . " this amendment would require the CMA to publish term of reference summarise the evidence base for a finding of substantial and entrenched market power or a finding of strategic significance . amendment 178 , in clause 3 , page 2 , line 28 , after " service " insert " predominantly " this amendment clarify that the provision of a service predominantly by mean of the internet would be a digital activity . amendment 179 , page 2 , line 34 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) this amendment be link to Amendment 178 . amendment 180 , in clause 5 , page 3 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( c ) be not assuage by evidence of competition arise beyond the activity of the undertaking , and ( d ) demonstrate that the perceive market power will be improve compare with the scenario in which the designation do not occur . " this amendment make addition to the definition of substantial and entrenched market power . amendment 181 , in clause 6 , page 3 , line 31 , leave out " one or more of " and insert " both " this amendment be link to Amendment 182 . amendment 182 , page 3 , line 33 , leave out paragraph ( a ) to ( d ) and insert — " ( a ) significant network effect be present ; ( b ) the undertaking ' s position in respect of the digital activity would allow it to extend its market power . " this amendment change the definition of the term " position of strategic significance " . amendment 183 , in clause 7 , page 4 , line 17 at end insert " arise from the designate activity " this amendment limit the turnover condition in relation to UK turnover to turnover arise from designate activity . amendment 184 , page 4 , line 19 , at end insert " to account for inflation on the CPI measure " this amendment ensure that the sum use to determine whether the turnover condition have be meet can only be amend to account for inflation on the CPI measure . amendment 194 , in clause 11 , page 6 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( c ) give a copy of the statement to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " this amendment ensure that challenger firm be able to access information about the regulatory framework on an equal basis to designate firm . amendment 195 , in clause 12 , page 7 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give a notice under subsection ( 2 ) , the CMA must give a copy of the notice to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . amendment 196 , in clause 14 , page 7 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give an SMS decision notice , the CMA must give a copy of the notice to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . government amendment 2 and 3 . Amendment 197 , in clause 15 , page 8 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give a revise SMS decision notice , the CMA must give a copy of the revise notice to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . government amendment 4 to 7 . amendment 193 , in clause 19 , page 11 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 9a ) a conduct requirement must be impose within 3 month of an undertaking be designate as have SMS under section 2 . " this amendment ensure that a time frame of three month be impose for the CMA to enforce conduct requirement on designate SMS firm . government amendment 8 . amendment 190 , in clause 20 , page 12 , line 9 , after " to " , insert " harm competition in the relevant digital activity or the other activity , " this amendment would ensure that the CMA can tackle anti - competitive conduct in a non - designate activity , provide that the anti - competitive conduct be relate to a designate activity . amendment 191 , page 12 , line 11 , after " activity " , insert " , provide that the conduct be relate to the relevant digital activity " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 190 . government amendment 9 and 10 . amendment 192 , in clause 25 , page 14 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( e ) whether to take action in accordance with chapter 4 ( pro - competitive intervention ) in respect of the extent to which it be comply with each conduct requirement to which it be subject and the effectiveness of each conduct requirement to which it be subject . " this amendment would ensure that the CMA consider the efficacy of exist Conduct Requirements when consider whether to make pro - competitive Interventions . government amendment 11 and 12 . amendment 198 , in clause 26 , page 15 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give a conduct investigation notice , the CMA must give a copy of the conduct investigation notice to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . amendment 187 , in clause 27 , page 15 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) the CMA may have regard to any significant benefit to user or potential user that the CMA consider have result , or may be expect to result , from a factor or combination of factor result from a breach of a conduct requirement . " this amendment would ensure that the CMA consider any significant benefit to user result from the breach of a Conduct Requirement when it be consider representation from designate undertaking as part of a Conduct Investigation . amendment 199 , in clause 28 , page 15 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give a notice under subsection ( 2 ) , the CMA must give a copy of the notice to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . amendment 188 , page 15 , line 21 , leave out clause 29 . this Amendment be consequential to Amendment 187 . government amendment 13 . amendment 186 , in clause 29 , page 15 , line 31 , leave out subsection ( c ) and insert — " ( c ) the conduct be necessary for the realisation of those benefit base on the well available evidence reasonably obtainable , and " this amendment would change the circumstance in which the countervail benefit exemption would apply . government amendment 14 . amendment 209 , page 15 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) the CMA may only consider that the countervail benefit exemption apply if it have reach such a consideration within six month of the day on which the conduct investigation notice be give to the undertaking . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , a " benefit " mean any benefit of a type set out in regulation make by the Secretary of State in accordance with the procedure under subsection ( 6 ) to ( 9 ) . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of this section come into force , lie before Parliament draft regulation set out the type of benefit that apply for purpose of subsection ( 2 ) . ( 7 ) a Minister of the Crown must make a motion in each House of Parliament to approve the draft regulation within 14 day of the date on which they be lay . ( 8 ) subject to subsection ( 9 ) , if the draft regulation be approve by both Houses of Parliament , the Secretary of State must make they in the form of the draft which have be approve . ( 9 ) if any amendment to the draft regulation be agree to by both Houses of Parliament , the Secretary of State must make the regulation in the form of the draft as so amend . " this amendment would introduce a 6 month time limit on the duration of investigation into countervail benefit claim , and specifie that the Secretary of State shall introduce further legislation for parliamentary debate provide an exhaustive list of the type of countervail benefit SMS firm be able to claim . amendment 200 , in clause 30 , page 16 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give the notice , the CMA must give a copy of the notice to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . government amendment 15 and 16 . amendment 201 , in clause 31 , page 17 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) as soon as reasonably practicable after make an enforcement order ( include a revise version of an order ) , the CMA must give a copy of the order to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . amendment 202 , in clause 32 , page 17 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give a notice under subsection ( 5 ) , the CMA must give a copy of the notice to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . amendment 203 , in clause 34 , page 18 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) as soon as reasonably practicable after revoke an enforcement order , the CMA must give a copy of the notice to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . government amendment 17 and 18 . amendment 189 , in clause 38 , page 21 , line 7 , leave out " breach an enforcement order , other than an interim enforcement order " and insert " breach a conduct requirement " this amendment would allow the CMA to initiate the Final offer mechanism after a Conduct Requirement of the type permit by clause 20 ( 2 ) ( a ) have first be breach , provide that the other condition in clause 38 be meet . government amendment 19 to 30 . amendment 204 , in clause 47 , page 26 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give a PCI investigation notice or a revise version of the PCI investigation notice , the CMA must give a copy of the notice to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . amendment 205 , in clause 50 , page 27 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) as soon as reasonably practicable after make a pro - competition order , the CMA must give a copy of the order to those undertaking that have not be designate as have sms that be most directly affect . " see the explanatory statement to Amendment 194 . government amendment 31 to 56 . amendment 185 , in clause 102 , page 61 , line 10 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) and insert — " ( 6 ) in determine an application under this section — ( a ) for any application make within a period of three year begin on the day on which this Act be pass , the Tribunal must determine the application on the merit by reference to the ground set out in the application ; ( b ) for any application make thereafter , the Tribunal must apply the same principle as would be apply — ( i ) in the case of proceeding in England and Wales and Northern Ireland , by the High Court in determine proceeding on judicial review ; and ( ii ) in the case of proceeding in Scotland , by the Court of Session on an application to the supervisory jurisdiction of the court . ( 7 ) the Tribunal may — ( a ) for any application make within a period of three year begin on the day on which this Act be pass , confirm or set aside the decision which be the subject of the application , or any part of it , and may — ( i ) remit the matter to the CMA , ( ii ) take other such step as the CMA could itself have give or take , or ( iii ) make any other decision which the CMA could itself have make ; ( b ) for any application make thereafter — ( i ) dismiss the application or quash the whole or part of the decision to which it relate . and ( ii ) where it quash the whole or part of that decision , refer the matter back to the cma with a direction to reconsider and make a new decision in accordance with a ruling of the Tribunal . " this amendment change for a three - year period the mechanism by which the Tribunal would determine application for review . government amendment 57 to 67 , 83 and 84 , 106 , 108 , 111 , 148 and 149 . I be honour to have be appoint as the Minister with responsibility for tech and the digital economy , and as one of the Ministers with responsibility for the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . when I be appoint last Tuesday , many helpful colleague come up to I to say , " you have be throw in at the deep end , " but it be a blessing to have responsibility for take this legislation through the House . in that vein , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) for his tireless work to get the Bill to this stage . I be aware of the importance of this legislation and the sentiment across the House to deliver the Bill quickly . the benefit of the digital market measure in part 1 of the Bill be clear to see . they will bring about a more dynamic digital economy , which prioritise innovation , growth and the delivery of well outcome for consumer and small business . the rise of digital technology have be transformative , deliver huge value to consumer and business . however , a small number of firm exert immense control across strategically critical service online because the unique characteristic of digital market , such as network effect and datum consolidation , make they prone to tip in favour of a few firm . the new digital market regime will remove obstacle to competition and drive growth in digital market , by proactively drive more dynamic market and by prevent harmful practice such as make it difficult to switch between operating system . I turn now to the Government amendment . when the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) first stand in the House , he state that the legislation would unleash the full opportunity of digital market for the UK . that intention have not change , and our amendment fully support that . the Government ' s amendment to part 1 will provide great clarity to party interact with the regime , enhance the accountability of the regulator and make sure that the legislation be draft effectively and meet its aim . I will address each of those theme in order . this new regime be novel . to maximise certainty , it be critical that its parameter — the scope of the regulator ' s function and the right and obligation set out in the legislation — be clear . therefore , the Government have table a series of amendment to far clarify how the digital market regime will work in practice . the amendment relate to how legally bind commitment provide by firm within the scope of the regime will work in practice , the Digital Market Unit ' s ability to amend certain decision notice , and how in certain circumstance the DMU may use its investigatory and enforcement power after a firm be no long designate . two important set of clarify amendment be worth cover in more detail . the first relate to conduct requirement . consumer benefit be a central focus of the digital market regime . the DMU must consider consumer benefit when shape the design of its intervention . to reinforce that central focus , we be clarify how the DMU will consider consumer benefit when impose and enforce conduct requirement . amendment 7 require the DMU to explain the consumer benefit that it expect to result from a conduct requirement , ensure transparent , well - evidence decision . amendment 13 and 14 simplify the wording of the countervail benefit exemption , while critically maintain the same high threshold . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . let I take the opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Meriden ( Saqib Bhatti ) on his appointment . do he recognise that it be important to be clear — and for the CMA and the DMU to be clear — that there could be a conflict between the interest of current consumer and those of future consumer ? therefore , it be important that the interest of both be balance in what the CMA and the DMU eventually decide to do . my right hon . friend make an important point . as I make progress , I hope he will be reassure that the regime will take both those thing into account . together , amendment 13 and 14 will make sure that consumer get the good outcome . amendment 14 make an important clarification on the role of third party in the final offer mechanism process . new clause 5 and related amendment will clarify when and how third party may make collective submission in relation to the final offer mechanism . that be vital , as collective bargaining can help to address power imbalance during negotiation . we expect that third party , especially small organisation , may seek to work together when negotiate payment term and condition . my second theme be the accountability of the regulator . the discretion afford to the CMA and its accountability to Government and Parliament have form a large part of the debate — quite rightly — during the passage of the Bill . I will take time to address that . the digital market regime be flexible in its design , with the CMA require a level of discretion to deliver effective outcome . while that be common for ex ante regulation , that do not negate the importance of take step to maximise the predictability and proportionality of the regulator ' s action . for that reason , the Government be introduce an explicit requirement for the CMA to impose conduct requirement and pro - competition intervention only where it consider that it be proportionate to do so . that will make it clear to firm in scope of the regime that they will not be subject to undue regulatory burden . firm will be able to challenge disproportionate obligation , and the Competition Appeal Tribunal will , in its consideration of any appeal , apply the principle of proportionality in a reasonable way , as it always do . to complement that , and to ensure consistent senior oversight and accountability of the regime , amendment 57 to 60 require enforcement decision , include the imposition of penalty , to be reserve to the CMA board or its committee . I welcome my hon . friend to his position , and congratulate he on his role . the Government amendment relate to the proportionality test for conduct requirement . why do the Government feel that there be a need for those additional test ? be there a concern that the CMA would use the power disproportionately , and if so , what might such a use have be ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution to the House on these matter , and for that question . the aim of the amendment be to provide clarity and give certainty — clarity that we will always ensure that the consumer be at the heart of what we do , and certainty because that be what business always need . I will happily give further clarity in my closing remark . to ensure robust oversight of the DMU ' s implementation of the regime , we be also require that the Secretary of State approve the publication of guidance relate to part 1 of the Bill . on the issue of clarity , the Minister know that the final offer mechanism should be an issue of last resort , and before that there should be a mechanism by which negotiation can take place . can he assure the House that there will be a mechanism to ensure that big tech firm do not drag out negotiation unnecessarily , because it be not clear so far ? the whole mechanism be design to ensure that small firm have a say in this . that be why the final offer mechanism be there . I hope that that that give the hon . member some reassurance . finally , the regime have the potential for significant financial penalty to be impose , so we have table amendment to allow any party subject to a penalty to appeal decision about the penalty on the merit , rather than on judicial review principle . an appeal on the merit allow the Competition Appeal Tribunal to consider whether it be right to impose the penalty , and to consider the penalty amount . where appropriate , it also allow the Competition Appeal Tribunal to decide a different penalty amount . I join the queue of people congratulate the Minister on his new role , which be well deserved . I think that I be right in say that any appeal against a fine from another economic regulator , such as Ofwat or Ofgem , be make to the CMA on the basis of the JR standard , yet we seem to be create a different , and arguably more complicated , special deal for large tech platform . can he explain the Government ' s think behind that ? I do not think that there be , as my hon . friend put it , a special deal ; it be about take a balanced approach to ensure that firm with penalty decision that have less direct impact on third party have the opportunity to challenge they , and take a view on they accord to the regime . the Minister be be very generous . I just want to understand why the approach differ from that take in identical appeal by other company against other economic regulator . give the huge size of the fine , it be only right that that approach be put in place to ensure the penalty be apply appropriately , but it do not apply to decision that be not make by the CMA . the regime have the potential for significant financial penalty to be impose , so we be introduce amendment to allow any party subject to a penalty to appeal decision about that penalty " on the merit " . an appeal " on the merit " allow the Competition Appeal Tribunal to consider whether it be right to impose the penalty and to consider the penalty amount . where appropriate , it allow the Competition Appeal Tribunal to decide a different penalty amount . the DMU ' s other decision , include the decision as to whether a breach of the regime occur , would remain subject to an appeal on judicial review principle . I join in congratulate my hon . friend on his appointment and on this very wise amendment . it be fundamental to the rule of law that people who be fine large amount of money have some proper form of appeal ; we must not put too much trust in unaccountable and unelected regulator . my right hon . friend be always a thoughtful contributor to debate in this House . we believe that the amendment ensure consumer benefit be at the heart of what we be do and any appeal will be carry out appropriately . adopt these amendment would bring the digital market regime into close alignment with exist cma merger and market regime , where penalty decision can be appeal on the merit . as in those regime , all other decision be appealable on judicial review principle . I thank my hon . friend for give way again . he will appreciate that we be all try to get clarity , so we understand what the proposal really mean . in relation to the appeal standard that he describe , for case that be not specifically relate to fine , he mention the proportionality addition early in his remark . when it come to an appeal , be we right to understand that the question of proportionality apply when the CMA originally make its decision to require an intervention and do not apply to the JR standard that be use to determine an appeal ? it be important to be specific about that , because there be those who would argue that proportionality should be a part of the appeal process . I think the Government amendment say that proportionality apply at an early stage and that when it come to consider whether the CMA have behave in a proportionate way in make its decision , the assessment will be make by the Competition Appeal Tribunal on JR principle . be I right about that ? I agree that that be exactly what we be say . I be happy to provide further clarity in my closing remark . critical to accountability be , of course , transparency . the Government be commit to transparency and bring forward amendment that will require the CMA to set out its reason for impose or vary a conduct requirement . that will improve transparency around cma decision making and increase consistency with other power in the Bill where similar justification be require . it also reinforce the CMA ' s exist responsibility to consider likely impact on consumer when decide whether and how to intervene . the third theme be to ensure the legislation be draft effectively . therefore , we have table further technical amendment to ensure that the Bill ' s text meet the Government ' s original intended aim . they relate to the scope of conduct requirement , specifically the application of the materiality threshold contain in clause 20 ( 3 ) ( c ) , the maximum penalty limit impose on individual , the merger report duty and the service of notice on undertaking overseas in certain circumstance . it be worth note that there be a small number of cross - cut amendment contain in part 5 and 6 of the Bill that will also impact the digital market regime . I want to ensure that there be plenty of time for hon . member to debate the Bill at this important stage in its passage . I appreciate a collaborative approach from across the House . I be sure that there will be many different view on some of the amendment , but I look forward to a constructive and collaborative discussion . it be a true privilege to be back in the Chamber once again , on behalf of the Opposition , to open the third debate in recent month on Report stage of this incredibly important Bill . I welcome the Minister to his place : he be join this brief at a very exciting time , and I look forward to work with he in the month ahead to get the Bill finally over the line . I pay tribute to his predecessor , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) . we may not always have agree on the detail , but I be always grateful for his collegiate and open - minded approach to get the Bill to a good place , where it need to be . I speak on behalf of colleague across the House when I say that the Bill must be pass without delay , and without significant change that would water down the provision . if this be do well , it have the potential to create a world - lead regulatory framework that will update and modernise the UK ' s competition and consumer law . by promote great competition , we will finally address fundamental problem in UK market so that they work well for all consumer . Labour have long call for measure to protect consumer , enhance innovation and promote competition in digital market , in order to unlock growth and level the play field for small business . that could not be more important in the midst of a conservative cost of living crisis . People often find it difficult to get out of internet provider contract . they may spend hour on the phone , or communicate via a bot , and when they do get through to someone , that person try to talk they out of what they be try to do . it seem to I that it would be very straightforward to require provider to have on their website a simple and prominent " cancel my contract " button , easily visible to anyone who be log in . that , surely , would save people acre of time and a huge amount of frustration . my hon . friend have make an important point about an issue face by all our constituent who be struggle to get out of contract that do not give value for money , and subscription trap , which we will discuss later this evening . these be issue that should have be deal with in the Bill , and could have be have it be afford parliamentary priority . sadly , many opportunity have be miss and will need to be return to , and we will be urge the Government to do that in due course . the Conservatives have needlessly delay the introduction of the Bill . their focus on infighting and general chaos have prevent they from present suitable legislation . the Bill be first promise in Parliament more than a year ago , and since then , owe to Tory delay , we have fall behind our european neighbour in this vital policy area . failure to act against gatekeeper to access point in the digital economy — from web browser to search engine , and from mobile operating system to app store and broadband contract — be have a huge impact on business growth and consumer price . let we be clear : a failure to regulate and level the play field be have a huge impact on consumer , who ultimately pay the price . this be a complicated Bill , which have rightly receive substantial coverage in the medium since it be first publish . it be only appropriate for I to begin my consideration of the first group of amendment by raise particular concern about the Government amendment relate to the countervail benefit exemption — notably , amendment 13 and 14 . as we all know , the countervail benefit exemption allow the Competition and Markets Authority to close an investigation of a breach of a conduct requirement if a big tech firm can demonstrate that its anti - competitive conduct produce benefit that outweigh the harm . these amendment change the test for the exemption from indispensability — a recognise competition law standard that ensure that a big tech firm can not proceed with anti - competitive conduct without good reason — to an untested , potentially ambiguous standard . there be a danger that this new , untested standard could allow big tech firm to evade compliance and continue with conduct that harm UK business and consumer . they might also inundate the cma with an excessive number of claim of consumer benefit , divert its limit resource away from other essential task . the Minister must be realistic . it be highly unlikely that anti - competitive conduct on the part of regulated firm will ever have a consumer benefit . the amendment create an unnecessary loophole that Labour colleague and I find very concerning . I would also be grateful if the Minister could clarify whether these amendment create a new legal standard that could allow regulated company to evade compliance . there be also the question of how the amendment will protect the cma from be inundate with claim of countervail benefit from regulated company . labour be concern by these amendment , and I therefore urge member across the House to support amendment 187 and 188 , table in my name , which seek to undo the Government ' s mismanagement . I will turn now to the change in the appeal mechanism . the Minister know about , and will have hear , the concern of colleague on the conservative side — on all side , actually — about the change in the appeal process , as outline in Government amendment 51 to 56 . we have all hear the passionate call from business that have risk their reputation and market share by stick their head above the parapet to warn of the risk of water down the appeal process . it be testament to their hard work that we be at this point today . as colleague will be aware , the Government amendment would change the appeal process and standard for penalty decision to full merit only . as we know , penalty such as fine be the most significant deterrent to prevent short message service firm from break the conduct requirement establish by the CMA . although timing — a key concern when consider the impact of full merit on other part of the Bill — be not of paramount importance when it come to fine , it be foreseeable that full merit appeal could allow SMS firm to reduce significantly the size of penalty , thus reduce their incentive to comply . the Minister will come to learn that collegiate , sensible agreement have be a common theme as the Bill have progress , particularly in line - by - line scrutiny in Committee . indeed , we broadly welcome the Government ' s decision to maintain the judicial review standard for appeal on regulatory decision . Labour feel that will ensure that the Competition and Markets Authority have the tool to act and be not bogge down in complex , lengthy and costly legal wrangling , which would render the new regime completely ineffective . however , the Minister must clarify how the amendment will not impede the CMA ' s ability to keep pace with rapidly move digital market . the regulator must retain the flexibility to construct remedy that target the harm to UK business and consumer stem from big tech ' s dominant position in digital market . look back on the contribution of the Minister ' s predecessor in Committee , we be all assure with a level of certainty that there would be no change to weaken the appeal process , so it be a frustrating reality to see yet another u - turn from this government — sadly , we have all become more than use to their slapdash way of govern and make law . as we know , introduce full merit appeal for all regulatory decision would have allow complex , lengthy and costly legal wrangling , which would render the new regime ineffective . it must therefore be clarify that the Government ' s amendment allow full merit appeal only for the level of the fine and for the decision to issue a fine . it must not permit a review of the CMA ' s decision to create a conduct requirement or implement pro - competitive intervention , or of the CMA ' s decision on whether a conduct requirement have be breach and how to remedy that breach . I would therefore be grateful if the Minister clarify exactly whether that will be the case . I be conscious of time so I will push the Minister to clarify a number of important point . government amendment 64 give the Secretary of State the power to approve cma guidance , which will be critical to regulated firm , particularly on how they should comply with the conduct requirement place upon they . what be unclear be when and how , and in what timeframe , guidance must be submit to the Secretary of State . I know that many of we would be grateful for some straightforward clarity from the Minister on that issue . lastly , I be keen to highlight Labour amendment 194 to 196 , table in my name , which aim to improve the consultation right of challenger firm . under the current drafting , firm with strategic market status will have far great consultation right than those that be detrimentally affect by their anti - competitive behaviour . the amendment would give third party the ability to provide critical information for the CMA ' s consideration , and feedback on its work . that be vital , particularly for challenger company whose growth may see they capture by the regime at a future point . I hope that the Minister will consider the merit of introduce similar amendment in the other place . he would have widespread support from colleague across the House if he be to go ahead and do so . we have hear the concern of Members across the House about how the change have be implement , so I urge the Minister to listen carefully to the debate as it progress and to do the right thing by work collegiately for the benefit of good legislation . in rise to address the House , I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be an independent adviser in a collective action be bring in the Competition Appeal Tribunal for alleged anti - competitive behaviour relate to cryptocurrency . although I will not address my remark to any part of the Bill that might be perceive as relevant to the funding of litigation relate to such action , I think it right to be comprehensive in my declaration . I wish to couch my remark in this way : I be a firm supporter of the need to provide effective regulation in a market that be vulnerable — and , some would say , prone — to monopolistic abuse of market power . it be clear that regulation be not only desirable but essential when it come to represent the interest of the consumer , and that be the place from which we all need to start . in the sturm und drang that have accompany some of the coverage of the Bill , it be perhaps inevitable that focus have be place on the interest of one sector , as oppose to those of another — the large - scale enterprise against the small start - up . in all that , we risk forget the essential truth of why we be legislate in this way , which be first and foremost to ensure that any regulator be work in the interest of the consumer . my amendment deal precisely with that issue , by impose an overarching and paramount duty on the regulator , and indeed the court , to serve the interest of the consumer . accompany with a duty of expedition , that underline the thrust of why I have decide to speak in this debate and to table amendment . much need to be do in the process of deal with competition issue , which of course mean the operation of the CMA and the Competition Appeal Tribunal . this debate — indeed , this whole process — can be a moment for we to reflect , and to take action and ensure that the way such dispute be deal with in future will be more efficient , more speedy and in the interest of the consumer . ex - ante regulation be very difficult ; it be all about predict the future . indeed , I be glad to see my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) in the Chamber . he follow that market very carefully and know its ever - change nature . it be difficult to predict what the world will look like in six month , let alone in five year . it be right to remember that the basis of the Bill , and of today ' s debate , go back four year to the Furman review , which rightly set out the parameter that have lead to the development of this much - need legislation . in one respect , the review have be somewhat pray in aid in a way that be potentially misleading . recommend action 12 of the Furman review speak about the ability of an affected company to appeal a decision — this be relevant to amendment 185 to clause 102 . the review state : " to facilitate great and quick use of interim measure to protect rival against significant harm , the CMA ' s process should be streamline . the ability for an affected company to appeal a decision or an interim measure be a vital safeguard of their right , and a check on the quality of cma decision - making . appeal process need to strike a balance between protect those affect by any unjustified decision and ensure that CMA power can be exercise effectively to protect those who would be leave expose by underenforcement or undue delay . " it go on : " the competition framework would be improve for digital market by focus appeal on test the reasonableness of cma judgement , that procedure have be appropriately follow , and that decision be not base on material error of fact or law — a standard more closely relate to that of judicial review . " as I read it , that be an invitation to ensure that there be not a completely unbridle merit - base approach . it be a world away from suggest that somehow , in this world of ex - ante regulation , we should be immediately narrow down the option of any court or applicant relate to potential claim on merit . ex - ante review work be not easy , but it be not unprecedented in United Kingdom regulation . we have have telecom regulation for a long time , with the work of Ofcom in police that . in that area , for a long time the decision making and the appeal process be allow to be base on merit , before a reversion or a narrowing down to judicial review principle . indeed , that be lay out for a long time — much long than the period I envisage in my amendment — in order to reflect the importance of achieve maximum clarity as early as possible . I do not want to see anything that create uncertainty in this market , because that will lead to a lack of investment , and perhaps a reduction of the sort of investment that we want to see domestically and internationally in this important and vital market for the future of our british digital service industry . my right hon . and learn Friend be make an important and eloquent speech . can I emphasise the point that he make about certainty , and return to the intervention by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) about the importance of have clarity on what the test will be and at what stage it apply ? we all understand proportionality test , and we certainly all understand classic judicial review test , but it be important in this emerge market that people know at which stage which test apply . I appreciate the Minister say that he will clarify that later in his speech , but I be not sure that the wording propose by the Government give we that clarity . will my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) consider what more need to be do around that ? what my hon . friend outline be precisely what we be seek . in make these argument , we be not in some way the friend of big tech ; we be not here to represent a particular sectoral interest . my amendment be draft by I and by senior counsel from Monckton Chambers , include Philip Moser KC , who regularly appear both for and against big tech in these matter . I think it right to seek some independent pro bono advice on the operation of competition law to make sure that , in develop the law in this way , we do not create entirely untested mechanism that would — guess what ? — require litigation to clarify . the point be that we should be seek to minimise more interpretive language that will require to be test in the court . that be why I take slight issue with what be say by the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , whom I respect very much . in amendment 186 , I seek to replace the word " indispensable " with " necessary " , because I think that be a much clear term that everyone would understand and that would , in itself , be a high threshold for the affected company in demonstrate consumer benefit in the countervail consumer benefit test . I think that , rather than try to use and develop new language , we should look back and learn from the experience of telecom regulation . one of the problem in , in effect , hand considerable power to the new digital market unit be that the legal landscape relate to this activity be unformed . unlike the landscape that underpin the Competition Act 1998 , we do not have the advantage of year of EU and UK court interpretation that be then apply by guideline issue by the CMA . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be articulate in present the case and knowledgeable about the issue , but may I distil it down to an issue of fairness that everyone can understand ? before our very eye , the landscape be change . long - establish title , newspaper and publication be disappear and retrench . thousand of journalist be lose their job . be it not a matter of basic fairness that people who create the content should be properly compensate ? the hon . Gentleman be right to make that point . that be why in other jurisdiction we have see agreement reach between big tech and newspaper title to ensure that there be that element of fairness . I agree with he ; I want to see similar fairness and equity apply across the market . what I and other who agree with I be try to do be to ensure that , in create this brave new world of energetic and efficient regulation , we do not as a Parliament upset the balance by give too much power to a particular regulator . a lot of we in this place have watch with concern the failure of other type of regulation — in our water industry or our energy industry , for example . I do not think anybody would deny that , at time , we have get regulation wrong . that be why it be important that we have this debate . there be people outside this place who have put pressure on we by say , " the Bill be in perfect order . there be no need for you to look at it any more ; great mind have think about it . " I say to they that it be for this place to make those decision . I do not look kindly on comment make by the chief executive of the CMA about the merit of what this place be consider while the Bill be in Parliament . I absolutely accept the independence of the CMA and the important role that it play , but we should not confuse independence with lack of accountability . that be a point that I will warm to in a little while , when I address the relationship between regulator — in this case , the CMA — and Parliament . at the moment , that relationship be wholly inadequate . I be make the point that , unlike the Competition Act 1998 , there be a relative lack of work - out court interpretation of this Bill ' s subject matter . that have lead to distinguish commentator — no less than Sir Jonathan Jones , former Treasury counsel — make the point in evidence to the Committee that , in effect , the DMU would be able to decide who be go to regulate , set the rule that apply and then enforce those rule . the phrase " legislator , investigator and executioner " be use . while that be colourful language — perhaps too colourful for a dry debate about competition law — it be important that we reflect on the view of that former Treasury solicitor and be very careful that in go down this road , we be not make false comparison . a lot have be say about Ofcom and its decision , and comparison have be make , but we must not forget that those Ofcom decision be heavily govern by EU framework directive 2002 / 21 . article 4 of that directive say that on ex - ante telecom appeal , " Member States shall ensure that the merit of the case be duly take into account and that there be an effective appeal mechanism . " that be a bit different from the provision in the Bill . a simple jr - type review be precisely that , and no more . I listen with interest to the intervention make by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , who make a really good point that need answer . we need to understand where proportionality come into this . if the principle of proportionality be be use in the first instance , that be all well and good , but we need to understand how that fit with the provision of the Bill : whether it imply that the court deem every decision make by the DMU to be proportionate , or whether there be a way to challenge a particular decision by say that it be not make accord to the DMU ' s own principle , act in a proportionate way . it seem to I — I would be interested in my right hon . and learn Friend ' s view — that on the basis of the Government ' s propose wording , it be more likely that a firm will be able to challenge whether the CMA have apply its proportionality test appropriately , but the mean by which it will do so will be under JR principle on appeal , rather than on a merit basis . it be not that proportionality be not subject to challenge , but that that challenge be limit by JR principle at the appeal stage . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree ? that be what we need to bottom out . the primary worry that a lot of we have about the JR principle be that it mean that any challenge will probably be vanishingly small , which be not good for ensure that the regulator be work in the good way . none of we want to encourage incontinent litigation — or incontinent legislation , bear in mind the importance that we place on it — but sometimes , challenge be essential to create great certainty . there will be ambiguity ; there will be occasion where there need to be a test . we should not be frightened of that . I be follow what my right hon . and learn Friend say carefully . do he agree that we have to consider the nature of this business landscape ? for these firm — some of the big company in the world — litigation be a cost of do business . their track record show that they use almost all ground there be to challenge any decision make by any regulator . not even a regulator be resource sufficiently to be able to contest those challenge , and the people who seek to bring they know that they will take year and cost a huge amount of money , and that the business may even be close by the time a resolution have be find . I fully take on board my hon . friend ' s concern . he be right to say that , which be why this should not just be about what might happen in term of raw dispute ; it have to be the culture of the new regulator to work with any potential subject — any company that might be a subject of an investigation — in a co - operative way . that raise the issue of how open the party be with each other about the basis of their assertion and of how datum be share — that go right into the Competition Appeal Tribunal itself . a lot of people would be surprised that the disclosure rule in the CAT be not as open as one would expect they to be if one be challenge a decision . we have to work our way through that , in order to change that attitude and reduce the amount of potential litigation by make sure that there be agreement . I accept that the Government have move on the JR test with regard to penalty , but a potential problem could result from the Government ' s amendment on that : there will not be a change of culture , there will be a readiness by big tech to admit breach and then all resource will be throw into contest the penalty . there we will get the litigation , the real argument and the high - stake money . to paraphrase my hon . friend , we will get the actuarial calculation that it would be worth throw a lot of money at litigation to reduce a penalty that could be a big percentage of turnover . we be potentially talk about huge penalty for these company . that issue do worry I and I hope that it demonstrate to the House why I be properly sensitive about the need to make sure that we do not just open the door to abuse by another mean . I be a huge follower of Theodore Roosevelt and a great believer that his approach to fight the J . p . morgan and the Standard Oils of his day be exactly how we should operate in the monopolistic market of today and tomorrow . my hon . friend be right to say that this market be fast develop . when the Furman report be produce , we be look at a different world in big tech . with the rise of artificial intelligence , we be see it evolve far . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for give way , particularly as we be on the subject of Theodore Roosevelt . do he agree that we have to be careful when consider consumer detriment in this case ? the argument be not successfully make in the United States that J . p . Morgan could say that he may have a railway monopoly but the ticket price be relatively low and so there be no consumer detriment . that be not consider to be a bind argument , so because the cost of an app in an app store might be low , that do not mean to say that the company can get away with overcharging . again , I be grateful to my hon . friend . he be right : there be a danger that in regulation we focus on the cost of the good or service , rather than on the overall environment and quality of the market . some would say that that have be a particular issue in the way that regulation have operate in the water sector . that be why this be a good moment for all of we , as a House , to pause and reflect on where we have go wrong with regulation in the past and how we can get it right from here on in . there be some option the Government can look at when deal with the JR standard . I have mention the importance of make sure that there be accountability , but we should not just be look at the sunset option that I have set out in my amendment ; we should look again at whether the clarification of the proportionality test could help everybody to understand precisely how the JR principle will work . if we miss the opportunity on this occasion to get this right , I be not sure we will be do anybody any favour , least of all the consumer and especially not the DMU itself , which need to develop in a way that be truly accountable . the thrust of some of my amendment relate to the regulator ' s accountability to this place , which be why they include a requirement to report regularly to Parliament and to Ministers . new clause 12 relate to the appointment of the senior director of the DMU , which I think should be do directly by the Secretary of State . that be not a challenge to the independence of the body ; minister regularly appoint independent director and inspector , for example , and it do not undermine the integrity and quality of their role . however , through those amendment I be seek to make the case that we should not confuse independence for lack of accountability . I do not use that word as a way of avoid a great accountability to this place . that be why , when it come to how such regulator will be accountable to Parliament , we should strengthen our own scrutiny . it be a matter not for the Minister , but for this place to amend Standing Orders to create either a Committee of this House or perhaps a joint committee to summon regulator directly to account . such a Committee could have power akin to those of the Public Accounts Committee , to allow the director of all the regulator to answer to member of Parliament and to Peers . a support Select Committee focus on that work could really make a difference and improve the quality of that regulation . that be something I urge not only on my hon . friend on the Front Bench , but on the business manager who might be listen and the leader of both Houses . as a matter of urgency , in this session , they should come forward with proposal to amend the Standing Orders to create such a scrutiny structure . I will briefly deal with the other amendment table in my name in this part — order . I have to get five more speaker in , plus the Minister . as the right hon . and learn Gentleman will shortly have be on his foot for nearly 25 minute , this be just a quick reminder that he need to give other time to speak . of course . I have just clear my throat , Madam Deputy Speaker , and by my standard this be a very short speech . I will deal in summary with the other amendment . what I be seek with those amendment be to ensure that , in use definition , we do not end up create mission creep for the DMU . I want the DMU to focus on the emerge digital economy ; I do not want it to end up deal with , for example , supermarket such as Tesco , which will increasingly use online service to allow customer to shop . I do not think that be the intention of those propose the Bill , but we need to make it clear in the Bill that that sort of mission creep will not be part of how the regulator develop . I also want to make the point that , when look at entrenched market power , focus purely on size can sometimes be deceptive . rather small enterprise can often have a disproportionate effect on a market . they do not necessarily need to be big . while we rightly understand that generally the big the entity or organisation , the big the impact it have , it be not always the elephant that make a difference ; it be sometimes the mouse . that be why focus on market power rather than size be a well way of deal with effective regulation . in summary , I want to hear from my hon . friend on the Front Bench a response to the challenge that I have lay out . I do not seek to press the amendment to a vote this evening , but I be sure that they will be return to in the other place . surely it be in the interest not only of the people we serve , but of the wide british economy that in pass such pioneer legislation , which in many way put Britain in a different place from other jurisdiction , we do not end up disincentivise the sort of investment that I know be part of the Prime Minister ' s aspiration to make this country a world leader in artificial intelligence and machine learn safety and a place where digital business will want to invest . it be as simple as that . that be why it be vital that in this Bill we strike as perfect a balance as we can , because in this complex , ever - change market it be very difficult to predict what the future will be . I call the SNP spokesperson . my party broadly welcome the Bill at its introduction and through Committee , and broadly speak we still do . however , for our liking there remain too many gap in consumer protection . the Bill do not include an equivalent to the EU ' s consumer right to redress when consumer be mislead , and it do not baseline the protection that we have previously , which we think be a serious omission . many consumer find that to their cost when their travel arrangement go haywire through chaos at the channel port over the summer . the Bill do not do enough to tackle greenwashe . as we have hear , there be a systemic failure to tackle drip pricing and subscription trap . we be also still unclear about how the Government intend to tackle the scourge of fake review ; although secondary legislation could be introduce , the scope of the sanction that could be bring to bear against the perpetrator would inevitably be restrict . rather to my surprise , we have 175 Government amendment to the Bill . that seem rather a lot to be bring in . it can be gently elide over that this be a Government who have be listen carefully to all the argument put , but , to be perfectly honest , I think it show that this have become something of a Christmas tree Bill . it would have be well to have have much more parliamentary scrutiny in Committee of some of the thing we now find come in , no matter how well - intentione they be . a number of amendment to the Bill do cause I concern , include the series of amendment that change the mechanism for appeal the Competition and Markets Authority ' s decision . in our view , Government amendment 6 , 7 , 10 and 30 will water down the Bill ' s effectiveness , allow tech company describe under the Bill as the most powerful firm and dynamic digital market to be able to challenge the CMA ' s decision if they do not believe that they be proportionate . government amendment 51 to 53 , 55 and 56 also have that effect , since they will prevent certain appeal by big - tech firm of decision make by the CMA from be hold to the judicial review standard . I be unpersuade by the argument that we have hear so far about that . we fear that , in practice , when a decision be take that be not , for whatever reason , to the liking of big - tech company with rather large budget — to take one entirely at random , we have Apple , which make profit and turnover yield that be big than most country ' gdp — they will inevitably be able to tie those decision up in the court for quite some time , all the while be able to secure whatever advantage they have which the CMA have judge they get unfairly . the CMA have warn that change the appeal mechanism could lead to such a set of draw - out legal battle and quite an adversarial relationship with the firm that it seek to regulate , which I would venture be far remove from the Bill ' s original intention . it be unusual that I should ever pray in aid the other place in a political argument , but last month the House of Lords Communications and Digital Committee call on the Government to maintain the JR standard for all appeal . it be therefore worrying , if not entirely surprising , that the extensive lobbying that some of the big tech company have subject we to seem to have find the ear of the Government . if the UK Government ' s amendment 6 , 7 , 10 and 30 , which seek to allow firm with strategic market status to appeal against cma decision , be accept , that will essentially undermine the CMA ' s job and ability to protect consumer . those amendment would allow big tech firm to appeal against decision take by the regulator on significant issue such as block merger and issue fine simply on the basis of their feeling that they may not be proportionate . as I say , they can certainly afford to spend huge amount of money on legal representation to quibble with these decision , particularly if the fine or deprivation of the opportunity to make lot of money mean that they feel it be worth spend that money whatever the eventual chance of success be . this be in addition to the letter that Baroness Stowell write to the PM last month warn that the UK Government must not " undermine " the Competition and Markets Authority , note that these amendment would " favour those with an interest in delay regulatory intervention " and give great power to avoid scrutiny to the tech firm " with the great resource " . the UK Government should not be ignore these warning , and we believe that this be a detrimental addition to the Bill . this position be also back up by which ? in April last year . in our view , these amendment show that the Government have do the exact opposite of stick to their gun on this . I be mindful of the time — as be you , Madam Deputy Speaker — so I shall come to the amendment that I believe we will be vote on later . labour amendment 187 and 188 would enable the Competition and Markets Authority to consider any significant benefit , due to a combination of factor , that might result from a breach of the conduct requirement . we think that strike a reasonable and fair balance on where we would like the outcome to be , and should the amendment be press to a vote , the SNP will be support they . listen to this debate , I be remind of remark attribute to a major United States tech investor who say that it have always amuse he that people think competition and capitalism be the same thing . while competition can be a great driver of economic growth , the acquisition of capital and the creation of new market , there be equally plenty of capitalistic enterprise that have grow wealthy on the back of a lack of competition , through market domination . that be why this legislation be so important . superficially , it be tempting to look at the landscape of the digital economy and say that the fact that there be a number of very big company be evidence of effective competition between those company . those company , include Amazon , Apple , Google and Meta , may compete for the provision of some service , but they largely dominate market where they be the central player . we have hear throughout the passage of the Bill that even major business seek to sell their good through , say , Amazon as an online retail platform can not afford to have a public dispute with that platform , because their relationship with that company be fundamental to the success of their business . major publishing company have talk about the fact that contract renegotiation with company such as Amazon can come with big cost attach , but that ultimately they have to do business through they . Cloud storage , which be currently an area of investigation for the CMA , be go to be a vital piece of business infrastructure for anyone who operate in the digital economy , but again , it be dominate by one or two company , principally Google and Amazon . there be only two operating system for our mobile phone device . one be Android , which be own by Google ; the other be Apple ' s iOS system . they both have app store , and there be a lack of interoperability between they . we therefore have app store market that be actual monopoly . this have be investigate by the CMA and it have billion of pound of consumer detriment in overprice and variable pricing attach to it . we know that these anti - competitive force exist . in its recent ruling on the propose Microsoft - Activision merger , the CMA be right to highlight that if a company that create video game that people like to play be ally to a cloud system own by a dominant company , people might only be able to access the service if they pay that cloud provider — the storage gatekeeper or guardian of that service — which could have consumer detriment down the line . we be already see example such as market domination and self - preferencing . Google have be investigate by the European Commission over self - preferencing . this be where company be not just create an easy - to - use service across multiple product for people , but do so in a way that exclude other from that market . in the long run we must be concern about the consumer detriment of market power be consolidate into the hand of a relatively small number of company . an example that member will probably all be familiar with be the mobile mapping app market . it use to be quite a vibrant market with a number of player in it , but it be now largely dominate by two , Google and Apple . that be not to say that the interest of company be always against the consumer interest , but we should be mindful of the fact that in many of these market , monopolistic condition can easily be create , so we should be concern about abusive market power . there be already some evidence of that . we also need to be concern about the likelihood of litigation be a cost of do business , as I say early to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , because that have be the track record of the market so far . the Information Commissioner have be challenge consistently by tech company when it have give datum notice . we need to be concern , too , about the challenge from company to online safety legislation . in Europe , where the Digital Markets Act be new , we already see legal challenge and appeal on the designation of gatekeeper status for some big company . last week , both Meta and TikTok state that they be seek to challenge the European Commission on the designation of some of their service as gatekeeper service , so we already see evidence of the challenge that be likely to come . we have see it in the past , so we should be mindful of the impact now . that be principally why I want to speak about proportionality , which have be raise and be very important . if a company challenge the conduct requirement impose on it by the regulator , or the regulator ' s decision , on proportionality ground , what could that include ? do the CMA merely have to demonstrate that it consider the proportionality of its action , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) suggest ? I think we would recognise that as be similar to the judicial review requirement . or would there be ground for challenge whether the regulator have consider all the information it should have consider when reach its decision ? if a conduct requirement be set because the regulator believe that consumer detriment arise from a company ' s behaviour , could the company say , " well , yes , but the price be still very low , " or " it be not clear what the cost to the individual consumer will be , so we challenge the ground for that action " ? in this country , we do not have a culture of class action law suit , so one of the big complaint in the tech sector be that what often stop an individual or business take action against a big platform be that even if it win , it would be after a lengthy legal process , and the damage win would be so small that it would not have be worth do . typically , we do not really allow class action law suit here , but they would allow a different kind of approach ; an organisation would be able to seek redress on behalf of a large number of consumer . the question of how the proportionality test will be apply be very important for understand how the measure will work . it will widen the ground for litigation considerably if we allow " proportionality " to be interpret more widely — if it be not simply a question of whether the CMA have do what it be require to do , and if the test effectively allow for , through the back door , an on - the - merit appeal process , in which any number of factor can be consider that may have be think important when decide whether an action be proportionate . that be particularly important up front , when the regulator be set the conduct requirement . as we already see in the European Union , the early decision will be challenge by company . they may consider the cost of litigation a relatively small price to pay , and think that they have relatively little to lose . that have certainly be the experience so far . we could end up with a system that quickly become unwieldy . where the incentive for the regulator to take action be limited — it will not have the resource to fight robustly every challenge bring — it will probably decide in advance not to pursue the action , because of the cost of litigation that could come back its way . that be why the Minister and the Government be right to resist the call from many of the big tech company for a full on - the - merit appeal system , which would have bogge the whole thing down in litigation . it be important to understand the Government ' s intention in introduce the proportionality test . a fundamental principle of proportionality apply to all EU law . in this case , we be write the principle into the Bill . obviously , the EU proportionality test will no long apply here , so what be the intention behind introduce such a test ? what be the certainty we seek to give ? can we be absolutely certain that there will be no unintended consequence , and that the test will not be use to widen the basis for appeal , give that so many factor could be consider in a fairly subjective test of proportionality ? be the definition clear enough and proof against abuse , so we can be confident that the judicial review standard , not a wide on - the - merit system , will be the basis of appeal ? I , too , welcome the new Minister to his place and congratulate he on his appointment . we all recognise that this be important , long - overdue legislation , so I wish he well in pilot it through the House . I also declare an interest : I be co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the National Union of Journalists . I receive no pecuniary advantage , directly or indirectly , and the NUJ be not affiliate to the Labour party or any other party , but it none the less make some valid point , which I wish to raise today . we face immense challenge and significant technological change in the UK , and indeed globally , give the development of social medium and the increase use of artificial intelligence . in an era of fake news , there be few source of news trust more than our national , regional and much - love local title , which have stand the test of time and have deep root in our community . I have participate in a number of debate on the subject in Westminster Hall , and debate on the decline of our local newspaper and the need to support they be always over - subscribed . it be important to be aware that professional journalism in the UK be in crisis . Reach PLC , the publisher of title include the Mirror , the Daily Star and the Manchester Evening News , have announce a third round of redundancy , put at risk as many as 800 journalist job . if we do not find mean of fairly compensate establish publisher and trust source of journalism , we will suffer from a less diverse medium landscape , job loss , and the promotion of voice deliver fake news guide by hidden agenda . big tech continue to exploit its market dominance in digital advertising ; it use news content from professional journalist without give any payment or compensation to the publisher who produce the content . this Bill be a positive step , which I welcome . it be welcome by the NUJ , journalist and publisher . a function media market require regulator to address the power imbalance that have emerge between major tech company and the journalism industry in recent year . our establish news title and publisher be essential to democracy ; they scrutinise Government and contribute to an informed society . their content be be use to generate revenue for tech giant . they — the creator — must be guarantee a fair share of revenue . without quality news content on online platform , the overall standard of information that we all consume will decline . it be in the collective interest of our Government , of all citizen of the country , and even of major tech company to ensure the continued presence of quality journalism . that be relevant to the part of the Bill that allow the Competition and Markets Authority to initiate a final offer mechanism , which be refer to by my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) — I support opposition amendment 187 and 188 for the reason she give . the final offer mechanism must be use only as a last resort , and not by big tech company to bypass meaningful negotiation . I also wish to reinforce the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Salford and Eccles ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) : meaningful and fair negotiation be vital if big tech company be not to continue to exploit the current power dynamic , and place undue influence on small publisher in a way that do not recognise the true value of the original content that they produce . british journalism be valuable , and its value be quantifiable . news content use by tech giant be estimate to be worth around £ 1 billion a year in the UK . that revenue be essential to the health and wellbeing of professional journalism in the UK . I welcome the stance of the House of Lords Communications and Digital Committee on the timely implementation of the Bill , and its recommendation that the Government " resist pressure to weaken some of the Bill ' s measure " . I also echo what the NUJ and the News Media Association say about maintain the option of judicial review for appeal against regulatory decision . government amendment must be clarify — a number of member , include my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd , have ask for this — to ensure that the Competition and Markets Authority can retain the flexibility to construct remedy for problem that arise , and to keep up with rapidly change digital market , especially when big tech have such a monopolistic position . I urge the Minister to uphold a high threshold for exemption from penalty when tech firm breach the rule , so as to prevent misuse of exemption provision by well - fund company that employ expensive legal team . the example of Everton Football Club come to mind . it seem to I — not that I be an expert in these matter — that it be be heavily penalise . other football club in the premier league that seem , on the face of it , to be guilty of far great abuse have manage to avoid the penalty . it be crucial that we eliminate loophole that could be exploit by big tech . whether we like it or not , people consume a lot of their news from the big tech giant . research conduct by Ofcom find that Facebook be the third most popular place to consume news ; a high proportion of people go there than to the BBC or Sky News channel . Meta recently discontinue Facebook News in Europe , and that have a potential impact on news consumption . with almost half of news consumer rely on social medium , it be imperative to ensure fair compensation for quality content on social medium platform . look ahead , the NUJ seek extensive engagement with the government — I hope that the Minister will respond to this — on safeguard the future of journalism , and on recognise the multi - faceted threat that it face , include from emerge technology such as artificial intelligence . it be imperative that this legislation quickly progress through Parliament , so that we can safeguard the integrity of UK news title and publisher , and protect they from undue influence from big tech lobbyist who wish to water down much - need reform . I be delighted to support the amendment in the name of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) . it be important to get the balance right , and not to worry too much about phantasm and fear that will not arise . it be worth recall that , in the 1970 , the Federal Trade Commission be on the cusp of open an investigation into IBM for its monopoly in typewriter . technology be change so rapidly , and an over - zealous regulatory mechanism be more likely to damage and hold back innovation than advance it . think of the name that have come and go over the past few year . who now have a BlackBerry ? we once again think of blackberry as a fruit , rather than a mechanism for communicating . or a Nokia telephone ? in the 1980 , Nokia make Wellington boot . it be probably now back to make they , as its telephone have come and go and be overtake . that be the thing about the sector that we be look to regulate : there be competition in it . it be not necessarily a competition for market share at any one time ; it be a competition of technology that be evolve fast than people be able to deal with it . there be in the Bill a touching faith in the competence of regulator , which I do not share . the CMA , to which we be about to give significant power , have make a fool of itself this year — and not just a little . it have be make a global laugh stock by its Microsoft Activision Blizzard ruling , in which it blunder . it get it wrong ; all the other regulator in the world do something else , and the CMA have to back down . the story be — this be quite important — that the CMA be do the work of the FTC , but the FTC have to meet a high legal standard and therefore encourage the cma to make the bid more difficult , because it think that the UK law would be easy to work around than US law . that be why the amendment on the judicial review standard be so important . I would be in favour of a full merit standard . I think it be very peculiar that the Opposition , who be always happy to go to court to obstruct the Government at any opportunity — to obstruct the Government in carry out the will of the british people , or to obstruct the Government when decision be make by accountable Ministers — want unaccountable , unelected bureaucrat to have arbitrary power , which I do not want they to have . I want they to be able to operate accord to merit . what do those at the DMU have to fear ? be they quiver in their boot that incompetent decision will be overturn ? surely , they should have faith and confidence in their ability to do thing properly and competently , because if they do they well , they will not lose . there be an argument that the law be complicated . yes , of course the law be complicated , so do we just hack down all the law and give arbitrary power to whatever regulator , because when we go to court , it be difficult and expensive ? the fundamental protection of a free democratic society be the rule of law . however , it be suddenly think that , because the tech company have a bit of money , though other in this field have some money too , they should not have the protection that the rest of we feel entitled to rely on . I think this be a bizarre way of look at thing , and it be why I think the protection should be proper and full . I love these company no more than anybody else . it be quite an interesting conundrum that all the company we use every day — Google , Apple and so on — be not belove by their consumer , but be remarkably useful . we seem slightly to be legislate on the basis that , though they be useful , they be just a little bit vulgar , and therefore we should be a little bit snooty about they . let we not be , because they bring enormous benefit to our consumer — to our constituent who be consumer . they make life easy and more efficient , and they give they the opportunity to do thing more productively and to do thing they be not able to do before . yes , because they do that and they provide this service , they make some money at the same time . I be therefore very supportive of the amendment of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon . new clause 23 and 27 be very important because they bring accountability to the regulator , and I want to ensure that regulator be accountable both to Ministers and to Parliament . it be worth bear in mind that , whenever a regulator get a decision right , it be the regulator ' s virtue and worthiness that be praise and hold up . however , whenever a regulator get something wrong , it be the fault of the Treasury Bench . as well as warn those on the Treasury Bench , I warn those on the Opposition Front Bench , who hope one day — in the far distant future , probably beyond my lifetime — to be hold office , that at the point at which that sad day may come they will realise that they want to get the credit for what work , not just the blame for what fail . that be important for all government at all time , and currently we have delegate thing to all of these random body , and when they bungle , it be the Ministers ' fault anyway . that be why we want to have such accountability . there be also what I would call the Tesco amendment . the Tesco amendment be one about which my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon and I have write to Ministers to say that this Bill , as it be currently phrase , would allow Tesco to be designate . Tesco be not by and large a digital company , but it have a lot of digital activity — people may buy their bake bean or their Bath Oliver biscuit from Tesco online — and that potentially bring Tesco within scope . we have have a marvellous reply from the Department — and I look at my right hon . and learn Friend as I say this — predate my hon . friend the Minister , who I do not think would have sign such a letter . the marvellous reply say , " Don ' t worry because the CMA and the DMU win ' t do this . we may be give they the power , but don ' t worry your little head about it because they win ' t do it . " that be bad legislation , or a bad structure to legislation . surely we have learn in this House — and let we hope that the other place have learn if we have not — that when we legislate , what we put in law be what we think may happen . we do not put thing into law that we do not want to happen in the hope that somebody , out of good will , will not use that power . that be bad legislation , and it simply should not be in the Bill . an amendment have be provide , and if it be not accept tonight , it should be accept in the other place . it fascinate I , after the Labour party have have a go at the Government for sitting end early , that there be only one Back - Bench speaker from the Labour party , the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , on a Bill run to hundred of page . [ interruption . ] this be so important when we be scrutinise legislation . we have already have three speaker from the Government Benches , but it be the job of the Opposition to hold the Government to account . it be not for Government Back Benchers to hold the Government to account ; it be for the Opposition to do so . on a Bill of this importance , only one Opposition Back - Bench speaker — a very admirable and a very diligent one , it have to be say — have want to come and diligently go through it , which be what we should be do . [ interruption . ] be that a v - sign from the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) on the Opposition Front Bench ? Madam Deputy Speaker , we will need to pass around the smell salt if this sort of thing carry on . on Report , we need to be go through the amendment one by one , look at the detail of the Bill , and amendment 178 — the Tesco amendment — do exactly that . it be look at a flaw or a lacuna in the Bill , and try to close that hole . that lead to the construction of well legislation , which will have a well effect in the court . overall , I think we need to make sure , as my right hon . and learn Friend have say , that we put the consumer first and foremost . it should all be about that . there be huge competition in the tech sector not just on market share , but on the fundamental of the technology that change and evolve in a way that leave company that do not keep up out of business . that be not like supermarket , whose share may go up 1 % or 2 % over a year . this be about go from have the predominant market share to hardly exist as company . that be how rapidly the sector have change over recent year and , indeed , over recent decade , so we should not be too worried about a lack of competition . however , we should always be worried about the difficulty of the over - mighty regulator that be unaccountable to this place or to Ministers . that be why I have put my name to my right hon . and learn Friend ' s amendment , and why I urge the Government , as this Bill progress , to keep on think hard about why we should put faith in a regulator to have any low standard than full merit for any review , because surely the rule of law require that people ' s interest be properly protect and that they be not subject to arbitrary law . the liberal Democrats welcome many aspect of this Bill . we be pleased that the Government be finally act on the Competition and Markets Authority ' s recommendation in bring forward measure to prevent the tech giant from put our digital sector in a stranglehold . we want to see a thriving british tech sector in which start - up can innovate , create good job and launch innovative product that will benefit consumer . a strong competition framework that push back on the tech giant ' dominance be essential for that . for too long a small number of big tech firm have be allow to dominate the market , while small , dynamic start - up company be too often drive out of the market or swallow up by the tech giant . new rule design by the CMA will ensure that these large company will have to refrain from some of their unfair practice , and they give the regulator a power to ensure that the market be open to small challenger company . the Liberal Democrats be pleased to see change to the competition framework , which will allow the CMA to investigate the takeover of small but promising start - up that do not meet the usual merger control threshold . this change be particularly important for sector such as artificial intelligence and virtual reality while they be in their infancy . the benefit of these change will filter down to the end user , the consumer , in the form of more choice over product and service , well price and more innovative start - up come to the fore . while we be glad that most of the CMA ' s recommendation be in this Bill , we have concern about certain aspect , such as the forward - look designation of SMS firm and the definition of countervail benefit that SMS firm be able to claim . the countervail benefit exemption allow the CMA to close an investigation into a conduct breach if an SMS firm can demonstrate that its anti - competitive practice produce benefit for user that outweigh the harm . there be some concern that big tech may seek to exploit this exemption to evade compliance with conduct requirement and continue with unfair , anti - competitive practice . it could also create scope for tech firm to inundate the cma with an excessive number of claim of countervail benefit , divert the CMA ' s limited resource away from essential task . amendment 209 , table in my name , seek to strengthen the Bill and to curtail the power of large tech firm to evade compliance by tighten the definition in the Bill of what kind of benefit be valid . the Liberal Democrats also have concern about several of the Government amendment , particularly those relate to the appeal standard , as they risk water down some of the CMA ' s most powerful tool . there be now a real danger that powerful incumbent will use their vast resource to bog down and delay the process , leave small competitor at a disadvantage . these amendment show that the Government be take the side of these establish firm at the expense of small , grow firm , and at the expense of economic growth and innovation as a whole . the Liberal Democrats be keen to ensure that big tech be prevent from put the british tech sector in a stranglehold . we hope that the Government will be robust on the defensive measure in the Bill . it be important that they reject any attempt to water down or weaken this Bill with loophole , and that they ensure there be no ambiguity that could be exploit . although competition be crucial for Britain ' s tech sector , we hope the Government also move to tackle some of the fundamental issue hold it back , such as the skill gap , the shortage of skilled worker and weak investment . with the leave of the House , I would like to address some of the point that have be make today . I be grateful to member across the House for their contribution to this debate and , of course , throughout the development of this legislation . I be similarly grateful for the cross - party support command by the digital market measure . member will find that I agree with point raise on both side of the House , and I be confident that this Bill address those point . I thank the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) for kindly welcome I to the Treasury Bench , for her amendment and for her commitment to get this legislation right . she ask about the countervail benefit exemption , and I reassure she that the wording change maintain the same high threshold . SMS firm must still prove that there be no other reasonable , practical way to achieve the same benefit for consumer with less anti - competitive effect . this make sure consumer get the good outcome , whether through the benefit provide or through more competitive market . the hon . Lady also ask about appeal , and it be important that decision make by the CMA can be properly and appropriately review to ensure that they be fair , rigorous and evidence - base . we have consider strong and differing view about appeal from a range of stakeholder , and judicial review principle be the appropriate standard for the majority of decision under the regime , as we have maintain with the additional clarification on the DMU ' s requirement to act proportionately . we have , however , align the appeal of penalty decision with appeal under the Enterprise Act 2002 , so that party can challenge these decision on their merit to ensure that the value of a penalty be suitable . penalty decision have less direct impact on third party , and the amendment will provide additional reassurance without affect the regime ' s effectiveness . the significant change we be make will provide more clarity and assurance to firm on the need for the DMU to act proportionately . they also bring the regime in line with the relevant CMA precedent . party will have great scope to challenge whether the intervention impose on they be proportionate or could have be achieve in a less burdensome way . when financial penalty be impose , party will have access to a full merit review to provide reassurance that the value of the fine be appropriate . the hon . Lady also ask about the implementation of guidance , and I can assure she that we be work at pace to ensure the regime be operational as soon as possible after Royal Assent . Guidance must be in place for the regime to go live , and the Government will be work with the cma to ensure timely implementation . the Secretary of State will , of course , review all guidance for all future iteration . the hon . Lady also talk about amendment 187 and 188 , which seek to replace the countervail benefit exemption with a power for the cma to consider benefit to user before find a breach of a conduct requirement . the exemption will ensure that there be a rigorous process to secure the good outcome for consumer , and remove it would jeopardise clear regulatory expectation and predictable outcome . in turn , this would make it more likely that consumer lose out on the innovation develop by SMS firm , such as privacy or security benefit . government amendment 13 and 14 clarify the exemption while , crucially , maintain the same high threshold and clear process . the hon . Lady also mention amendment 194 and 196 , and the Government agree that it be important that the DMU ' s regulatory decision be transparent and that the right information be available to the public . we understand that these amendment would require the DMU to send decision notice to third party that it assess to be most affect by those decision . however , under the current drafting , the DMU be already require to publish the summary of key decision . require the DMU to identify appropriate third party and send they notice would introduce a significant burden on the DMU , to limited benefit , and I argue that it would undermine the flexibility and quick pace that we expect from the DMU . we believe the current drafting strike the right balance , provide transparency and public accountability on DMU decision . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) table an amendment seek to implement a procedure to set out an exhaustive list of benefit to which the countervail benefit exemption can apply . digital market be fast move , and we do not want to risk consumer miss out on benefit that be not yet foresee . a list of acceptable type of benefit could quickly become out of date , even with the procedure that she propose to permit . the amendment also seek to impose a six - month time limit . however , the Bill already include provision for a six - month deadline for conduct investigation , so that time limit be not necessary . I be particularly grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and other member who recently meet my predecessor and the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who be responsible for enterprise and market , to discuss the appeal standard for the digital market regime . I thank they for their positive engagement throughout the Bill ' s passage , and especially over the past few day as I get to grip with the Bill . I have great respect for my right hon . and learn Friend , and he bring up some very interesting point and challenge . he be right to put forward those challenge so that we can address they . I acknowledge that my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) also want clarity on proportionality . although regulatory decision will be make under judicial review principle , we be introduce a requirement for proportionality in the DMU ' s core regulatory tool , conduct requirement and pro - competition intervention at the point at which they be impose . let I be unequivocal and clear that we be introduce proportionality at the point of intervention so that it can be ground for appeal via the legislation , on top of the procedural and legality ground commonly associate with judicial review . I warmly welcome my hon . friend to his place , as this be my first chance to do so . be we now to understand that , with regard to the judicial review standard , proportionality will , in effect , be build in , and that we be go beyond the principle of plain , vanilla jr into the more widely understand term ? be I right ? I suggest that I write to my right hon . and learn Friend , and to all right hon . and hon . member who have raise the important question of proportionality , to clarify the position . we want this legislation to have clarity for consumer and certainty for business because , as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) say , this be an ever - change market , so it be essential that we have clarity and certainty . the point about proportionality extend into clause 29 , where the Government have now remove the indispensability test , leave bare proportionality . my amendment ask for a necessity test . what assessment have my hon . Friend make of the removal of " indispensability " ? do he still think that the threshold for countervail benefit will be sufficiently high to ensure that the CMA do not disapply or discontinue investigation inappropriately ? that be an important point , and I appreciate my right hon . and learn Friend give I the opportunity to clarify it . I want to be unequivocal that , from my perspective , the threshold be still high and we have provide clarify . if he require even further clarity , I be happy to write to he to be completely clear . I be grateful for what my hon . friend have say so far about the application of the proportionality test , but if he be to follow up with member in write with some clarity , can he set out what he believe the ground for challenge would be on the basis of proportionality ? the intervention that the CMA may make and the ruling it may give be at the end of quite a lengthy process of market analysis , demonstration of abuse of market power and breach of conduct requirement . if those be challenge routinely and at a late stage , on the basis that there be ground to say that it be disproportionate , it could have the unintended consequence of delay system in a way that they should not be delay . if I hear my hon . friend correctly , he want a letter on that . this legislation be design to make sure that it be not for big company to litigate heavily to stifle the small challenger from come out and become the big company and employer of tomorrow . let I write to he to clarify the point far . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon have speak about accountability in my numerous conversation with he over the past few day , and again today . I take his point . he will know that I want independent , versatile , flexible and adaptable regulator . that be only right for an ever - change digital market that be always innovate and change the way it operate . we do not know the unicorn of tomorrow or the benefit that we can get from consumer . the Competition and Markets Authority and the DMU have a responsibility to be accountable , to maintain that flexibility and to have adaptability to new technology and new entrant in the market . as I be sure he know and respect , that be why independent regulator be a central part of our internationally recognise business environment . we should not forget that point . I take the point about overreach by regulator , but they be a core part of what international partner and investor look at when it come to the competition regime , because they know that will be innovative and will encourage further innovation in technology . the CMA be operationally independent from Government , and Government will not intervene in its regulatory decision . the DMU will have discretion in how it design its intervention under the regime . that discretion be match with robust accountability , from initial decision making to appeal . there be a range of check and balance throughout the regime that provide assurance . I hope that reassure my right hon . friend . there be opportunity for Government , Parliament and stakeholder to hold the cma to account , but I welcome his challenge and intervention on this point , because it be important . I be sure that this will be look at again in the other place . government should always be sensitive to those challenge . the digital market regime will be oversee by CMA ' s board , which be accountable to Parliament for all key decision . key decision will be take by a committee , of which at least half its member will offer an independent perspective . I be sure that he will welcome that because , as new technology and innovation emerge in the market , we will need new expertise . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) make the important point that the growth and expansion of regulation in digital market be necessary but substantial . the ability of this place to keep track of how the regulator use their power be increasingly important . that may be beyond the work of any departmental Select Committee , but instead require something like the Public Accounts Committee , as he suggest — a separate committee whose job be to focus on and scrutinise such work . that be recommend by the House of Lords Communications and Digital Committee , and also by the Joint Committee on the Online Safety Bill . I do not expect the Minister to give we an answer right now , but if he could reflect on that need and give some guidance to the House , that would be welcome . my hon . friend make an important point that be a matter for wide discussion on accountability . I be happy to have that discussion with he in future . as thing currently stand , there be sufficient balance and check in place , but I be always open to have further discussion with he . could the Minister give some clarification on my point about fair reimbursement to the journalist and publish house that produce original content ? as the new Minister , be he prepare to meet the National Union of Journalists to hear its concern directly ? if the hon . Member will be ever so patient , I will address that point , because it be important . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon talk about the DMU ' s ex - ante power , which I want to address because it be an important measure . we propose to give the DMU ex - ante power to impose obligation on designate firm because of the characteristic of digital market , which make they particularly fast - move and likely to tip in favour of new , powerful winner . we do not think that approach be appropriate for firm in other market that do not exhibit the same quality . even if a firm meet the turnover condition and carry out a digital activity , the DMU will still need to find evidence that the firm have substantial and entrenched market power , as well as a position of strategic significance in the activity , to designate the firm . the DMU will prioritise the area where there will be great benefit for market and consumer , and will reflect the CMA ' s strategic steer provide by the Government , which be design to reflect the policy as intend . I think that everyone wish to achieve the same objective , so I do not quite understand why his Majesty ' s Government do not accept the amendment of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , which will make that clear beyond doubt , will safeguard it and will tidy up the legislation . I will address my right hon . friend ' s point . we have listen to the concern and discuss they in great detail , but I believe the Government ' s amendment strike the right balance between prioritise the benefit to the consumer while help the digital market to remain flexible and innovative , allow for the future tech of tomorrow to be a big challenger . one of the great strength of the Bill lie in the speed and flexibility of the toolkit to well equip the regulator to tackle fast - move and dynamic digital market . the amendment will maintain an effective , agile and robust process , and will not undermine the Digital Markets Unit ' s ability to intervene in a timely and impactful way . they will ensure that the DMU ' s approach be proportionate and beneficial to consumer . I hope that we have reach a good position with the Members I have speak about , but I want to turn to the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , who be ever so eloquent about the challenge that the legislation be look to overcome and the balance that it seek . I be greatly appreciative of his support and the challenge he have put down . in respect of the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , the final offer mechanism , which strengthen the hand of small business when they challenge those big business , be design with the challenge he have put forward in mind . I hope that he appreciate that we recognise the traditional business model of news medium , particularly print medium , which have be substantially disrupt by the growth of digital . the regime be design to help rebalance the relationship between major platform and those who rely on they , include news publisher . that could include create an obligation to offer fair and reasonable payment term for the use or acquisition of digital , include news , content . I will absolutely take up the offer to meet the NUJ and hear its concern . I hope that this measure go a long way towards appease those concern by rebalance the market and ensure that firm that have strategic market significance know that they must present a much fair deal for regional print medium . I have long be an admirer of the contribution of my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset , who be ever so thoughtful . we agree on effective regulation and an effective regulator , but I be sad to say that today we have come to different conclusion . in this ever - change market , we know that , where there be monopolistic behaviour , have a regulator that be adaptable and flexible provide the opportunity to nurture further competition . I often talk — and have talk today — about the unicorn of tomorrow . my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon talk about Tesco . I think that we have clarify that issue , but to clarify it far , for a firm to be designate by the DMU , it have to satisfy three fundamental point : it have to have digital activity , it have to have substantial and entrenched market power , and it have to hold a strategic position in the market . I do not want to pre - empt what the CMA or DMU may do in term of Tesco ' s designate status ; that be not my job today at the Dispatch Box . however , I hope that the test that I have set out reassure member that company such as Tesco will not fall under this measure because they have highly competitive market , include in the online world . perhaps the Minister will forgive I for juxtapose his reluctance to make thing clear in primary legislation when discuss this clause and what the Government seek to do in part 4 on subscription . it seem to I very odd to conduct a subscription regulation mechanism by use primary legislation . there be a conflict in the logic be apply here , and I be sorry that I have to point that out to he . I be sure that the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) will appreciate the pass that I be just about to give he ; I be sure that he will address that issue in his speech . I reiterate my gratitude to the Opposition for their co - operative behaviour , which I have be inform about by my predecessor , and to right hon . and hon . member across the House for the challenge that they have put forward today . I be grateful to member across the House for their contribution , and I hope that they continue to work with the Government . we will continue to work with member as the Bill progress through Parliament to ensure that it drive innovation , grow the economy and deliver well outcome for consumer . that be what the Government care about . we want a highly competitive market that innovate and nurture the technology company of tomorrow to ensure that the digital online world serve consumer . for that reason , I respectfully ask Members not to press their amendment . question put and agree to . new clause 5 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 6 - protect disclosure " in the Public Interest Disclosure ( Prescribed Persons ) Order 2014 ( S . I . 2014 / 2418 ) , in the table in the Schedule , in the entry for the Competition and Markets Authority , in the right hand column , after ' Kingdom ' insert ' , include matter relate to Part 1 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 ( digital market ) ' . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this new clause ( which would be insert into chapter 8 of Part 1 of the Bill ) confirm that matter relate to Part 1 of the Bill ( digital market ) be cover by the entry for the Competition and Markets Authority in the Public Interest Disclosure ( Prescribed Persons ) Order 2014 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . clause 15 - notice requirement : decision to designate amendment make : 2 , in clause 15 , page 8 , line 34 , leave out from " that " to the end of line 35 and insert " the undertaking or digital activity , as the case may be , remain substantially the same " . this amendment clarify how the CMA may revise its view of an undertaking or digital activity by issue a revise SMS decision notice . amendment 3 , in clause 15 , page 8 , line 37 , leave out from " not " to the end of line 38 and insert " affect — ' ( a ) the day on which the designation period in relation to that designation begin , or ( b ) anything do under this Part in relation to that undertaking . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment confirm that give a revise SMS decision notice do not affect anything do under this Part in relation to a designated undertaking . clause 17 - exist obligation Amendments make : 4 , in clause 17 , page 9 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in Chapters 6 ( investigatory power and compliance report ) and 7 ( enforcement and appeal ) , reference to a ' designate undertaking ' be to be read as include an undertaking to which an exist obligation apply by virtue of provision make in reliance on subsection ( 1 ) . " this amendment provide that reference in Chapters 6 and 7 to a designate undertaking include an undertaking to which an obligation apply by virtue of provision make in reliance on clause 17 ( 1 ) . amendment 5 , in clause 17 , page 9 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( ba ) commitment ( see section 36 and 55 ) ; " . — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment provide for the CMA to be able to apply an exist commitment , with or without modification , in respect of certain new designation or to make transitional , transitory or save provision in respect of a commitment when it would otherwise cease to have effect . clause 19 - power to impose conduct requirement Amendments make : 6 , in clause 19 , page 10 , line 30 , leave out from " requirement " to the end of line 35 and insert " or a combination of conduct requirement on a designate undertaking if it consider that it would be proportionate to do so for the purpose of one or more of the follow objective — ( a ) the fair deal objective , ( b ) the open choice objective , and ( c ) the trust and transparency objective , have regard to what the conduct requirement or combination of conduct requirement be intend to achieve . " this amendment provide that the CMA may only impose a conduct requirement or combination of requirement if it consider that it would be proportionate to do so , have regard to what the requirement or combination be intend to achieve . amendment 7 , in clause 19 , page 11 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 9A ) before impose a conduct requirement or a combination of conduct requirement on a designate undertaking , the CMA must have regard in particular to the benefit for consumer that the CMA consider would likely result ( directly or indirectly ) from the conduct requirement or combination of conduct requirement . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment provide that the CMA must consider the likely benefit for consumer when impose a conduct requirement or combination of conduct requirement . clause 20 - permit type of conduct requirement Amendment make : 8 , in clause 20 , page 12 , line 9 , leave out from " to " to " in " on line 10 and insert " materially increase the undertaking ' s market power , or materially strengthen its position of strategic significance , " . — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment clarify that a conduct requirement be permit if it be for the purpose of prevent an undertaking from carry on activity other than the relevant digital activity in a way that be likely to materially strengthen its position of strategic significance in relation to the relevant digital activity . clause 21 - Content of notice impose a conduct requirement Amendments make : 9 , in clause 21 , page 12 , line 28 , after " requirement " insert " or , as the case may be , each conduct requirement as varied , " . this amendment clarify how the notice requirement in clause 21 apply in relation to the variation of a conduct requirement . amendment 10 , in clause 21 , page 12 , line 31 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) and insert — " ( b ) the CMA ' s reason for impose the conduct requirement , include — ( i ) the objective for the purpose of which the CMA consider it be proportionate to impose the conduct requirement ( see section 19 ) , ( ii ) the benefit that the CMA consider would likely result from the conduct requirement ( see section 19 ( 9A ) ) , and ( iii ) the permit type of requirement to which the CMA consider the conduct requirement belong ( see section 20 ) ; " . — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment require the CMA to give reason for impose conduct requirement on a designate undertaking . sub - paragraph ( ii ) be consequential on Amendment 7 . clause 26 - power to begin a conduct investigation Amendments make : 11 , in clause 26 , page 14 , line 11 , leave out " a designated " and insert " an " . this amendment , together with Amendments 12 , 16 , 29 , 37 , 38 , 40 , 42 , 43 and 65 , ensure that enforcement action can be take in respect of an undertaking that have cease to be a designate undertaking in relation to its conduct while it be a designated undertaking . amendment 12 , in clause 26 , page 14 , line 18 , leave out " designate " . — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 11 . clause 27 - consideration of representation Amendment propose : 187 , in clause 27 , page 15 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) the CMA may have regard to any significant benefit to user or potential user that the CMA consider have result , or may be expect to result , from a factor or combination of factor result from a breach of a conduct requirement . " — ( Alex Davies - Jones . ) this amendment would ensure that the CMA consider any significant benefit to user result from the breach of a Conduct Requirement when it be consider representation from designate undertaking as part of a Conduct Investigation . question put , that the amendment be make . Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Alan Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Maria Caulfield Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Milling Scott Mann the House divide : Ayes 196 , Noes 275 . question accordingly negative . clause 29 - countervail benefit exemption Amendment propose : 188 , page 15 , line 21 , leave out clause 29 . — ( Alex Davies - Jones . ) this Amendment be consequential to Amendment 187 . question put , that the amendment be make . Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Alan Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Milling Scott Mann the House divide : Ayes 197 , Noes 278 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 20 March ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . clause 29 - countervail benefit exemption Amendments make : 13 , page 15 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( ba ) those benefit could not be realise without the conduct , " this amendment , together with Amendment 14 . clarify how the countervail benefit exemption be to operate . amendment 14 , page 15 , line 31 , leave out " indispensable and " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 13 . clause 30 - notice of finding Amendment make : 15 , page 16 , line 14 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5 ) subsection ( 1 ) do not apply — ( a ) where the CMA close the conduct investigation under section 28 , or ( b ) in relation to any behaviour in respect of which the CMA have accept a commitment from the undertaking ( see section 36 ) . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment clarify the circumstance in which the CMA do not have to give a notice of finding in relation to a conduct investigation . clause 31 - enforcement order Amendment make : 16 , page 16 , line 20 , leave out " a designated " and insert " an " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 11 . clause 36 - Commitments Amendments make : 17 , page 20 , line 4 , leave out paragraph ( b ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 18 . amendment 18 , page 20 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) a commitment under this section cease to have effect — ( a ) subject to provision make in reliance on section 17 ( exist obligation ) — ( i ) in accordance with any term of the commitment about when it be to cease to have effect , or ( ii ) when the conduct requirement to which the commitment relate cease to have effect , or ( b ) when the undertaking be release from the requirement to comply with the commitment . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment provide for a commitment to cease to have effect in accordance with term of the commitment . clause 38 - power to adopt final offer mechanism amendment make : 19 , page 21 , line 18 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) this amendment be consequential on NC5 . Amendment 20 , page 21 , line 22 , leave out " designate " in the second place it occur — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment ensure that the final offer mechanism can continue to operate in relation to undertaking after they have cease to be designate undertaking where provision make in reliance on clause 17 mean a final offer order continue to have effect . clause 39 - final offer mechanism amendment make : 21 , page 22 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) after give a final offer initiation notice , the CMA may — ( a ) change its view of the transaction or the third party , provide that the new transaction or third party remain substantially the same as the previous transaction or third party , ( b ) revise any list of joined third party or group third party , or ( c ) change the submission date . ( 3b ) the power confer by subsection ( 3A ) be to be exercise by give a revise version of the final offer initiation notice to the designate undertaking and the third party . ( 3c ) where the power confer by subsection ( 3A ) ( b ) be be exercise , the reference in subsection ( 3b ) to " the third party " include each person that be a joined third party or a group third party prior to the exercise of the power or that be to be a joined third party or a group third party after the exercise of the power . ( 3d ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give a revise version of a final offer initiation notice , the CMA must publish a statement summarise the content of the revise notice . " this amendment allow the CMA to revise its view of a transaction to which a final offer initiation notice relate and to use a revise final offer initiation notice to update the list of joined third party or group third party . amendment 22 , page 22 , line 15 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 21 . clause 40 - final offer : outcome Amendment make : 23 , page 22 , line 23 , leave out " only one of the designate undertaking and the third party " and insert " either the designate undertaking or the third party ( but not both ) " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment be consequential on NC5 . clause 43 - duration and revocation of final offer order Amendments make : 24 , page 24 , line 1 , after " revoke " insert " , or partially revoke , " this amendment provide that the CMA may partially revoke a final offer order . Amendment 25 , page 24 , line 4 , after " revoke " insert " , or partially revoke , " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . amendment 26 , page 24 , line 8 , after " revocation " insert " , or partial revocation , " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . Amendment 27 , page 24 , line 9 , after " revoke " insert " , or partially revoke , " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . amendment 28 , page 24 , line 10 , after " revoke " insert " , or partially revoke , " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . clause 44 - duty to keep final offer order under review Amendment make : 29 , page 24 , line 17 , leave out " a designated " and insert " an " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 11 . clause 45 - power to make pro - competition intervention Amendment make : 30 , page 24 , line 32 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and insert — " ( b ) it would be proportionate to make the pci for the purpose of remedy , mitigate or prevent the adverse effect on competition . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment provide that the CMA may make a pci where it consider that it would be proportionate to do so . clause 55 - Commitments Amendments make : 31 , page 30 , line 28 , leave out paragraph ( b ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 32 . amendment 32 , page 30 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) a commitment under this section cease to have effect — ( a ) subject to provision make in reliance on section 17 ( exist obligation ) — ( i ) in accordance with any term of the commitment about when it be to cease to have effect , or ( ii ) when the designation to which the commitment relate cease to have effect , or ( b ) when the undertaking be release from the requirement to comply with the commitment . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment provide for a commitment to cease to have effect in accordance with term of the commitment . clause 60 - application of the duty to report etc Amendment make : 33 , page 34 , line 29 , leave out from " p " to end of line 31 and insert — " that it have begin an investigation for the purpose of decide whether it have to make a reference under section 33 of EA 2002 ( duty to make reference in relation to anticipate merger ) in relation to " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment replace a reference to give a notice to a person under section 34za ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Enterprise Act 2002 ( which be give when a decision be make about whether to make a reference under section 33 of that Act ) with a reference to the cma inform the person that it have decide to begin an investigation into whether it have to make a reference under section 33 of that Act . clause 61 - acceptance of report Amendment make : 34 , page 35 , line 31 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 149 . clause 62 - Delay to possible merger etc Amendment make : 35 , page 36 , line 3 , leave out " ( as define in section 61 ) " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 149 . clause 66 - Regulations about duty to report Amendment make : 36 , page 37 , line 20 , leave out " 106 " and insert " 203 " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for the motion to transfer clause 203 , which would result in clause 203 be move to Part 6 of the Bill and apply for the purpose of the whole of the Bill . clause 69 - requirement to name a senior manager Amendment make : 37 , page 39 , line 4 , after " undertake " insert " or an undertaking that be the subject of a breach investigation " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 11 . clause 70 - Power of access Amendment make : 38 , page 39 , line 25 , after " undertake " insert " or an undertaking that be the subject of a breach investigation " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 11 . clause 71 - Power to interview Amendment make : 39 , page 40 , line 25 , leave out from " 116 ( 3 ) ) " to " , the " on line 26 and insert " the undertaking that be the subject of the digital market investigation " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment provide that , where a person be require to attend an interview in connection with a digital market investigation and be connect to the undertaking that be the subject of the investigation , the CMA must notify the undertaking . clause 73 - power to enter business premise without a warrant Amendments make : 40 , page 41 , line 28 , leave out " designate " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 11 . amendment 41 , page 42 , line 20 , leave out subsection ( 9 ) — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 149 . clause 78 - Reports by skilled person Amendment make : 42 , page 46 , line 12 , leave out from the first " undertaking " to " for " on line 13 and insert — " , an undertaking that be the subject of a breach investigation or an undertaking that be the subject of an SMS investigation ( in each case , " u " ) " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 11 . clause 79 - duty to preserve information Amendments make : 43 , page 47 , line 35 , leave out " a designated " and insert " an " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 11 . amendment 44 , page 47 , line 36 , leave out " connect to ( see section 116 ( 3 ) ) " and insert " , or be connect to ( see section 116 ( 3 ) ) , " the amendment , together with Amendments 45 and 46 , apply the duty to preserve information to undertaking that may be subject to investigation or be require to produce compliance report , in the same way as that duty apply to person connect to those undertaking . amendment 45 , page 47 , line 39 , leave out " connect to " and insert " , or be connect to , " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 44 . amendment 46 , page 48 , line 4 , leave out " connect to " and insert " , or be connect to , " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 44 . clause 82 - nominate officer Amendment make : 47 , page 49 , line 8 , leave out " a designate " and insert " an " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment clarify that clause 82 ( duty to appoint a nominate officer to monitor compliance with digital market requirement etc ) apply in relation to an undertaking that have cease to be a designate undertaking where digital market requirement continue to apply to it ( in accordance with clause 17 ) . clause 87 - amount of penalty under section 86 amendment make : 48 , page 53 , line 13 , leave out from " group " to " , to " on line 14 this amendment provide that the reference to any person ' s turnover in clause 87 ( 3 ) be to the turnover of a group if that person be part of , or a member of , that group . amendment 49 , page 53 , line 15 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 48 . Amendment 50 , page 53 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( c ) in the case of a combination of a fix amount and an amount calculate by reference to a daily rate , the amount mention in paragraph ( a ) , in relation to the fix amount , and paragraph ( b ) , in relation to the amount calculate by reference to a daily rate . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment clarify how an amount of a penalty that be a combination of a fix amount and an amount calculate by reference to a daily rate be to be calculate in relation to an individual . clause 88 - procedure and appeal etc amendment make : 51 , page 53 , line 31 , after " instalment ) " insert " , 114 ( appeal ) " this amendment , together with Amendments 52 , 53 , 55 and 56 , ensure that appeal against penalty decision will be determine on the merit rather than on judicial review principle . amendment 52 , page 53 , line 34 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 51 . Amendment 53 , page 54 , line 1 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) section 112 to 115 of EA 2002 be to be read as if reference to " the appropriate authority " be reference to " the CMA " only ; ( b ) section 114 ( 5A ) of that Act be to be read as if the word " in the case of a penalty impose on a person by the CMA or OFCOM , " be omit ; ( c ) section 114 ( 12 ) of that Act be to be read as if , for paragraph ( b ) , there be substitute — " ( b ) " the relevant guidance " mean the statement of policy which be most recently publish under section 90 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 at the time of the act or omission give rise to the penalty . " " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 51 . clause 96 - Offences : limit on extra - territorial jurisdiction Amendment make : 54 , page 57 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . clause 102 - Applications for review etc amendment make : 55 , page 60 , line 29 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) and insert — " ( b ) a decision about the imposition of a penalty under section 84 or 86 ( but see section 88 ( 1 ) ) . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 51 . amendment 56 , page 60 , line 36 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 51 . clause 105 - exercise and delegation of function Amendments make : 57 , page 64 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( da ) whether to make , and the form of , an enforcement order , other than an interim enforcement order , under section 31 of the 2024 Act ; " this amendment prevent the CMA from delegate to an individual staff or Board member the decision about whether to make , and the form of , an enforcement order other than an interim enforcement order . the CMA may still delegate this decision to a committee of the Board . Amendment 58 , page 64 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( db ) whether to accept a commitment under section 36 or section 55 of the 2024 Act ; " this amendment prevent the CMA from delegate to an individual staff or Board member the decision about whether to accept a commitment from an undertaking . the CMA may still delegate this decision to a committee of the Board . Amendment 59 , page 64 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( dc ) whether to exercise the power confer by section 38 ( 1 ) of the 2024 Act ( power to adopt final offer mechanism ) ; " this amendment prevent the CMA from delegate to an individual staff or Board member the decision about whether to adopt the final offer mechanism . the CMA may still delegate this decision to a committee of the Board . Amendment 60 , page 64 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( i ) whether to impose a penalty on a person under section 84 or section 86 of the 2024 Act ; ( j ) the amount of any such penalty . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment prevent the CMA from delegate to an individual staff or Board member the decision about whether to impose a penalty on a person and the amount of any such penalty . the CMA may still delegate these decision to a committee of the Board . clause 106 - Insert Clause 106 Heading Amendment make : 61 , page 65 , line 4 , leave out clause 106 . — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment would leave out clause 106 ( notice under Part 1 ) , which will no long be need follow the moving and amending of clause 203 by amendment 77 , 78 , 79 and 80 . clause 111 - extra - territorial application Amendments make : 62 , page 69 , line 33 , after " undertake " insert " or an undertaking to which an obligation apply by virtue of provision make in reliance on section 17 ( 1 ) ( exist obligation ) " this amendment provide that notice may be serve on a person outside the United Kingdom where the person be or be part of an undertaking to which an obligation apply by virtue of provision make in reliance on clause 17 ( 1 ) ( exist obligation ) . amendment 63 , page 70 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . clause 114 - Guidance Amendment make : 64 , page 71 , line 1 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and insert — " ( 4 ) before publish guidance ( include any revised or replacement guidance ) under this section , the CMA must — ( a ) consult such person as it consider appropriate , and ( b ) obtain the approval of the Secretary of State . " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment require the CMA to get the approval of the Secretary of State before publish any guidance relate to Part 1 of the Bill . clause 116 General interpretation Amendments make : 65 , page 71 , line 17 , leave out from " whether " to the end of line 18 and insert — " an undertaking be breach or have breach a requirement impose on the undertaking under this Part by virtue of the undertaking being , or have be , a designate undertaking " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 11 . amendment 66 , page 72 , line 22 , at end insert — " " group third party " have the meaning give by section ( collective submission ) ( 3 ) ; " group transaction " have the meaning give by section ( collective submission ) ( 3 ) ; " this amendment be consequential on NC5 . Amendment 67 , page 72 , line 31 , at end insert — " " join third party " have the meaning give by section ( collective submission ) ( 1 ) ; " — ( Saqib Bhatti . ) this amendment be consequential on NC5 . New Clause 7 - repeal of exclusion relate to the European Coal and Steel Community " ( 1 ) Part 1 of CA 1998 ( competition ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Schedule 3 ( planning obligation and general exclusion ) omit paragraph 8 ( coal and steel ) . ( 3 ) in section 3 ( chapter 1 : exclude agreement ) , in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) ( ii ) omit " , 2 , 8 " . ( 4 ) in section 19 ( chapter 2 : exclude case ) omit subsection ( 3 ) . " this new clause ( which would be insert into chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Bill ) would repeal paragraph 8 of Schedule 3 to the Competition Act 1998 , which have be redundant since the expiry of the Treaty establish the European Coal and Steel Community . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 8 — use of damage - base agreement in opt - out collective proceeding . government new clause 9 — merger of energy network enterprise . government new clause 10 — power to make a reference after previously decide not to do so . government new clause 11 — take action in relation to regulated market . government new clause 12 — mean of " work day " in Parts 3 and 4 of EA 2002 . government new clause 13 — ADR fee regulation . government new clause 14 — power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel . government new clause 15 — penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel . government new clause 16 — Procedure and appeal . government new clause 17 — statement of policy on penalty . government new clause 18 — offence etc . government new clause 19 — penalty under section ( penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) ) and offence under section ( offence etc ) . government new clause 20 — information sharing . government new clause 21 — Expiry of this chapter . government new clause 22 — Removal of limit on the tenure of a chair of the Competition Appeal Tribunal . new clause 1 — meaning of " payment account " and related term — " ( 1 ) ' payment account ' mean an account hold in the name of one or more consumer through which consumer be able to — ( a ) place fund ; ( b ) withdraw cash ; and ( c ) execute and receive payment transaction to and from third party , include over any designated payment system . ( 2 ) ' payment account ' also include the follow type of account — ( a ) savings account ; ( b ) credit card account ; ( c ) current account mortgage ; and ( d ) e - money account . ( 3 ) ' designate payment system ' have the same meaning as within the Financial Services ( Banking Reform ) Act 2013 . ( 4 ) ' relevant institution ' mean — ( a ) any bank which have permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to carry out the regulated activity of accept deposit ( within the meaning of section 22 of that Act , take with Schedule 2 and any order under section 22 ) ; ( b ) any building society within the meaning of section 119 of the Building Societies Act 1986 ; ( c ) any credit institution within the meaning of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 ; ( d ) any authorised payment institution within the meaning of the Payment Service Regulations 2017 ; and ( e ) any small payment institution within the meaning of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 . ( 5 ) ' discriminate ' mean that a relevant institution act in a way which , be that relevant institution a public authority , would constitute a breach of its obligation under section 6 ( 1 ) of the Human Rights Act 1998 , in so far as those obligation relate to — ( a ) article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights ; ( b ) article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights ; ( c ) article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights ; ( d ) article 11 of the European Convention of Human Rights ; and ( e ) any of the Articles list in paragraph ( a ) to ( d ) when read with article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights . " this new clause define relevant term for the purpose of NC2 . new clause 2 — right of consumer in relation to payment account — " ( 1 ) a relevant institution must not discriminate against a consumer when decide — ( a ) whether to offer a consumer a payment account ; ( b ) whether to alter , or vary in any way , the term of an exist payment account in use by a consumer ; or ( c ) whether to terminate or otherwise restrict a consumer ' s access to their payment account . ( 2 ) a relevant institution , within 30 day of decide to alter , vary , terminate , or otherwise restrict a consumer ' s access to their payment account , or decide not to offer a consumer a payment account , must provide the consumer with a write statement of reason explain their decision . ( 3 ) a write statement of reason under subsection ( 2 ) must clearly specify — ( a ) the basis upon which such a decision be take , include reference to any term and condition within the consumer ' s contract upon which the relevant institution rely , or reference to any legal obligation place upon the relevant institution ; ( b ) all evidence take into account by the relevant institution in reach its decision ; and ( c ) any other matter that have bear on the relevant institution ' s decision . " this new clause would place a duty on bank , build society and similar institution not to discriminate against consumer when offer retail banking service . new clause 3 — right of redress — " where a relevant institution have act in breach of its obligation under section [ right of consumer in relation to payment account ] ( 1 ) , the consumer shall have a right to damage in respect of any — ( a ) financial loss ; ( b ) emotional distress ; and ( c ) physical inconvenience and discomfort . " this new clause would give consumer a right to redress if discriminate against under NC2 . new clause 4 — enforcement of right of redress — " ( 1 ) a consumer with a right to damage by virtue of section [ right of redress ] ( 1 ) may bring a claim in civil proceeding to enforce that right . ( 2 ) the Limitation Act 1980 apply to a claim under this section in England and Wales as if it be an action found on simple contract . ( 3 ) the Limitation ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1989 ( S . I . 1989 / 1339 ( N . I . 11 ) ) apply to a claim under this section in Northern Ireland as if it be an action found on simple contract . " this new clause make provision for the enforcement of redress under NC3 . new clause 24 — Review of Competition Appeal Tribunal — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , as soon the Secretary of State consider reasonable practicable after this Act have be pass , commission a review of all process involve the Competition Appeal Tribunal . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that the review be conduct independently of the Digital Markets Unit and the CMA . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report of the review before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission an independent review of the Competition Appeals Tribunal process . new clause 25 — duty to treat consumer interest as paramount — " ( 1 ) in apply the provision of this Act , the CMA and the Courts have an override duty to treat consumer interest as paramount . ( 2 ) the duty set out in subsection ( 1 ) include a duty to — ( a ) address consumer detriment , include the protection of vulnerable consumer ; ( b ) expedite investigation that give rise to consumer detriment ; and ( c ) narrow point of challenge in appeal to cma decision that engage consumer detriment . " this new clause would impose a duty on the CMA and the Courts to treat consumer issue as paramount . new clause 26 — proceeding before the Tribunal : claim for damage — " ( 1 ) the Competition Act 1998 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 47a , after subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) insert — " ( c ) part 4 of the Digital Markets Act 2023 " " this new clause would allow claim for damage in respect of infringement of the provision of Part 4 of this Bill . new clause 29 — contract renewal : option to opt in — " ( 1 ) before a trader enter into a subscription contract with a consumer where section 247 ( 2 ) apply , the trader must ask the consumer whether they wish to opt - in to an arrangement under which the contract renew automatically at one or more of the follow time — ( a ) after a period of six month and every six month thereafter , or ( b ) if the period between the consumer be charge for the first and second time be long than six month , each time payment be due . ( 2 ) if the consumer do not opt - in to such an arrangement , the trader must provide a date by which the consumer must notify the trader of the consumer ' s intention to renew the contract , which must be no early than 28 day before the renewal date . ( 3 ) if the consumer have not — ( a ) opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) , or ( b ) give notification of the consumer ' s intention to renew by the date specify under subsection ( 2 ) , the contract will lapse on the renewal date . " this new clause would allow the consumer to opt - out of their subscription auto - renewing every six month , or if the period between payment be long than six month , before every payment . if the consumer do not opt - in to auto - renewal , they would be require to notify the trader manually about renew . new clause 30 — contract renewal : variable rate contract — " ( 1 ) before a trader enter into a subscription contract with a consumer where section 247 ( 3 ) apply , the trader must ask the consumer whether they wish to opt into an arrangement under which the contract renew automatically on the date the consumer become liable for the first charge or the first high charge . ( 2 ) if the consumer do not opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) , the trader must provide a date by which the consumer must notify the trader of the consumer ' s intention to renew the contract , which must be no early than five day before the renewal date . ( 3 ) the trader must also ask the consumer whether they wish to opt into an arrangement under which the contract renew automatically — ( a ) after a period of either six month from the first charge or high charge and every six month thereafter , or ( b ) if the period between the consumer be charge for the first and second time be long than six month , each time payment be due . ( 4 ) if the consumer do not opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 3 ) , the trader must provide a date by which the consumer must notify the trader of the consumer ' s intention to renew the contract , which must be no early than 28 day before the renewal date . ( 5 ) if the consumer have not — ( a ) opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) or subsection ( 3 ) , or ( b ) give notification of the consumer ' s intention to renew by the date specify under ( as the case may be ) subsection ( 2 ) or subsection ( 4 ) , the contract will lapse on the next renewal date . " this new clause would introduce an option for the consumer to opt - out of their subscription auto - renewing after their free or discount trial . otherwise , they would have to notify the trader manually about the subscription continue . it also introduce an option for the consumer to opt - out of their subscription auto - renewing . new clause 31 — regulatory burden arise from competition and consumer regulation — " ( 1 ) the CMA must , at least once a year , publish a report set out its assessment of the economic cost of regulatory burden that have be create and remove over the previous year through the exercise by public body of — ( a ) competition and consumer power ; and ( b ) the follow activity , as far as they relate to competition and consumer matter — ( i ) the imposition of conduct requirement ; ( ii ) dispute resolution and public enforcement activity ; ( iii ) the monitoring of undertaking , and ( iv ) the issuing of regulatory order . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that public body provide the CMA with information the CMA consider be necessary for completion of the report . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that the net economic cost of regulatory burden set out in the report be zero or less in every year . ( 4 ) in this section a " regulatory burden " mean a burden as define in section 1 ( 3 ) of the Legislative and Regulatory Reform Act 2006 . " this new clause place on Ministers a permanent duty to ensure that the net economic cost of burden from competition and consumer regulation be zero or less each year . government amendment 69 . amendment 207 , in clause 141 , page 89 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( c ) the collective interest of consumer include avoid any detriment that might be incur by consumer if the United Kingdom do not reach a level of net zero carbon emission by 2030 . " this amendment would mean that part of the test of whether a commercial practice have commit an infringement would be whether the commercial practice have fail to protect consumer from any detrimental effect arise from a failure to achieve net zero by 2030 . government amendment 70 to 79 , 81 , 82 and 85 . amendment 226 , in clause 224 , page 150 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) where a commercial practice have be find to be unfair under paragraph 32 of Schedule 18 of this Act , any body list as a public designate enforcer in section 144 ( 1 ) of this Act may require the removal of the relevant online marketing from the internet . " this amendment allow enforcement body to remove the marketing of fake or counterfeit product from the internet . amendment 208 , page 150 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) an establish mean use to encourage control of unfair commercial practice must include the follow measure — ( a ) investigation and determination on a timely basis — ( i ) in accordance with a pre - determine process which have be publish on the internet , ( ii ) by people who be independent of any organisation undertake commercial practice , and ( iii ) with the outcome of any decision publish . ( b ) the appointment of a board to oversee the investigation and determination process , with the majority of the member of the board independent of any organisation undertake commercial practice ; ( c ) provision for the suspension of a commercial practice during an investigation and prior to a determination be make ; ( d ) provision for guidance to be issue , by the CMA , the relevant weight and measure authority or , if the establish means be an organisation , the establish mean itself , about the lawfulness of a commercial practice ; ( e ) publication of statistical and other information about the operation of , and compliance with , the establish mean to enable the cma or weight and measure authority in question to assess on an annual basis the continue appropriateness of use the established mean . " this amendment set out condition , include in relation to independence and transparency , for the mean by which the control of unfair commercial practice will be encourage . government amendment 86 to 93 . amendment 210 , in clause 251 , page 166 , line 24 , leave out " six " and insert " twelve " . this amendment would provide for trader to have to issue reminder notice to consumer about ongoing subscription contract only every twelve month , rather than every six . amendment 211 , page 166 , line 36 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , make reasonable provision for the content and timing of reminder notice . " this amendment , together with amendment 212 and 213 , would remove the detailed provision about the content and timing of reminder notice from the face of the Bill and instead give the Secretary of State the power to make such provision by regulation . government amendment 94 . amendment 212 , page 167 , line 1 , leave out Clause 252 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 211 . government amendment 95 to 98 . amendment 214 , in clause 253 , page 168 , line 7 , leave out " in a single communication " and insert " in a manner that be straightforward , timely and do not impose unreasonable cost on a consumer " . this amendment , together with Amendments 215 to 218 , would remove from the Bill the exist detailed provision for end a subscription contract , intend that they should be cover by provision make in secondary legislation under the provision of clause 270 ( 1 ) ( c ) , and instead set principle for how a contract may be end . Amendment 215 , page 168 , line 10 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . see explanatory statement to Amendment 214 . amendment 216 , page 168 , line 15 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) . see explanatory statement to Amendment 214 . amendment 217 , page 168 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) . see explanatory statement to Amendment 214 . amendment 218 , in clause 254 , page 168 , line 37 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . see explanatory statement to Amendment 214 . government amendment 99 and 100 . amendment 219 , page 170 , line 25 , leave out clause 257 . this amendment , together with Amendments 220 to 222 , would remove the provision for a mandatory cool - off period for a subscription contract . amendment 220 , page 171 , line 19 , leave out clause 258 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 219 . amendment 221 , page 172 , line 18 , leave out clause 259 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 219 . government amendment 101 to 103 . amendment 222 , in clause 272 , page 180 , line 25 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) . see explanatory statement to Amendment 219 . government amendment 104 , 105 , 107 , 109 , 110 , 112 to 147 and 150 to 152 . amendment 223 , in clause 317 , page 221 , line 35 leave out " subsection ( 2 ) " and insert " subsection ( 2 ) and ( 2b ) " . this amendment and Amendment 224 would provide for an implementation period of two year before the provision in the Bill relate to subscription contract come into force . government amendment 153 and 154 . amendment 224 , page 222 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2b ) chapter 2 of Part 4 come into force two year after the day on which this Act be pass . " see explanatory statement to Amendment 223 . government new schedule 1 — merger of energy network enterprise . government amendment 155 to 163 . amendment 225 , in schedule 18 , page 343 , line 42 , at end insert — " 32 at any stage of a purchase process , present a price for a product which omit obligatory charge or fee ( or an estimate thereof ) which be payable by the majority of consumer , which be not reveal to the consumer until later in the purchase process . " this amendment add the practice of " drip - pricing " , a pricing technique in which trader advertise only part of a product ' s price and reveal other obligatory charge later as the customer go through the buying process , to the list of unfair commercial practice . amendment 227 , page 343 , line 42 , at end insert — " 32 Marketing online product that be either — ( a ) counterfeit ; or ( b ) dangerous . " this amendment would add marketing counterfeit and dangerous online product to the list of ban practice . government amendment 164 to 170 . Amendment 228 , in schedule 19 , page 350 , line 30 , at end insert — " non - commercial society lotterie 13 ( 1 ) a contract under which a lottery ticket or ticket be purchase for one or more non - commercial society lottery . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , " non - commercial society " have the meaning give by section 19 of the Gambling Act 2005 , and " lottery ticket " have the meaning give by section 253 of that Act . " this amendment seek to exclude lottery ticket purchase for non - commercial society lottery from the scope of the provision on subscription contract . government amendment 171 . Amendment 213 , in schedule 20 , page 354 , line 19 , leave out paragraph 28 to 38 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 211 . government amendment 172 to 175 . may I first echo the remark about the excellent address by the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Meriden ( Saqib Bhatti ) ? I welcome he to his place — he do a fine job on his first outing in such a complex debate . I , too , be delighted to bring the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill to the House on Report . may I express my gratitude to colleague across the House for their contribution to Second Reading and Committee stage , and for their continue engagement throughout its passage ? I thank in particular the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) and for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) for their constructive engagement and commitment to see the Bill deliver quickly so that its benefit can be realise . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) for his excellent engagement — over the weekend in particular — and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) for his many important and relevant amendment . the reform to the competition and consumer regime contain in part 2 to 5 of the Bill will grow the economy and deliver well outcome for consumer and bona fide business . consumer will have more choice and protection , and pay low price . business will operate on a fair and more level playing field . the reform will do that by enhance the wide competition regime , strengthen the enforcement of consumer protection law , and put in place new consumer right and more transparency . it be a simple fact that the way in which we buy product and service today very often involve a digital process . the opportunity that follow be vast — more accessibility , flexibility and choice for consumer — but there be also a great risk of consumer harm , include , for example , consumer be trap in a subscription contract that they no long want or purchase good that may not be up to scratch because they unknowingly rely on a fake review . we must ensure that consumer and their cash be protect . swifter intervention to tackle bad business practice against consumer be expect to deliver a consumer benefit of £ 9 . 7 billion over 10 year , as UK consumer benefit from new right , strong law enforcement and more competition through merger control . importantly , the reform will also grow the economy by boost competition , well place the UK to succeed in export market . it will allow the Competition and Markets Authority to more effectively deter , prevent , and , where necessary , enforce against monopolistic behaviour . that will ensure that the free market can operate effectively . the Government amendment to part 2 to 5 of the Bill will provide great clarity , ensure coherence with related legislation , and make sure the Bill ' s measure meet their intend aim . almost all the amendment be technical in nature . I will address they across four category : competition , consumer enforcement , consumer right and cross - cut provision . first , the competition measure in the Bill will give the CMA new power to enable it to tackle anti - competitive activity swiftly and effectively , mean that it can focus its work on the area of great potential harm . the competition environment be complex and ever evolve . we must respond carefully but decisively to change in the judicial and legislative landscape to provide certainty and to avoid any unintended detrimental consequence of wide development . new clause 8 amend the Competition Act 1998 so that the absolute bar on damage - base agreement be rely on in opt - out collective action will not apply to third - party litigation funding agreement , which be the main source of funding for that type of action . that respond to a recent Supreme Court judgment , and effectively restore the previously hold understanding of the status of litigation fund agreement under the 1998 Act . accordingly , it will have retrospective effect . in response to a recent Competition Appeal Tribunal judgment , we be specify the circumstance in which a market investigation reference may be make in relation to an area that have already be the subject of a market study but be not refer for further investigation at that time . we be also bring forward a series of amendment to ensure alignment between this Bill and the Energy Act 2023 , which introduce the energy network merger regime , and to make minor correction to provision relate to that regime . separately , we be repeal paragraph 8 of schedule 3 to the 1998 Act to remove a redundant reference to the treaty establish the European Coal and Steel Community . to ensure that the implementation trial for market remedy introduce by the Bill be as effective as possible , we be introduce new power for the Secretary of State to extend the scope of implementation trial in the market regime to include regulatory condition . I will now address the new direct consumer enforcement model . that model will enable the CMA to act fast and take on more consumer case on behalf of the public , result in a far estimate direct benefit to consumer of ten , or potentially hundred , of million of pound . the Government have table a series of technical amendment to increase certainty in respect of the CMA ' s operational duty . they include align the definition of " business " in part 3 of the Bill with that in part 4 of chapter 1 to ensure that any breach of unfair trading prohibition can be enforce through the regime ; and make provision about information - sharing between public authority so that enforcer can obtain the information that they need to take enforcement action under part 3 of the Bill . on appeal , we be add a requirement for the CMA to include information about applicable appeal right in a final breach - of - direction enforcement notice , as well as empower the appeal court to send issue back to the cma for decision on certain notice . we be also empower the Secretary of State to update through regulation the specify maximum amount for fixed and daily penalty imposable by a court or the cma when a business breach a formal information request . move on to consumer right — I be sure this will interest many member across the House — the purpose of the Bill be simple : to empower consumer to get the deal that be right for they , and to increase their confidence in the product they buy and the service they use . the new right on subscription trap will give consumer more control over their spending . such trap have be the subject of some debate during the passage of the Bill , and the Government be introduce amendment to remove unintended consequence . I welcome the introduction of consumer right on subscription , which have become a real minefield for many people of all age . why do the Government feel it necessary to have this provision in the Bill and in primary legislation , when if it be in secondary legislation it could have more flexibility with change circumstance ? we think it be a sufficiently important issue and something we consult on previously . we have a good idea of the kind of measure we would like to put in place , and we be add more flexibility — my hon . friend will have see some of the Government amendment that have be table in response to concern raise by member of the House , include my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon . we want that flexibility , yet we want to move on quickly with this important reform . there be about £ 1 . 6 billion of potential benefit to consumer through this Bill . I commend the Minister who be put forward idea that I , and perhaps my party , feel we can subscribe to and support . I always ask this question , because I think it be important that the general public have an access point if they have a question on something to do with consumer right . do the Government intend to ensure that there be some methodology — a phone call , an email address or contact person — who the public can contact if they have a question ? our position be that we do not intervene in the practice of business unless there be a necessity to do so . we leave those channel open for decision by business in the service that they offer to consumer , rather than dictate to they how they should communicate with their consumer . it be absolutely right that those channel be open and freely available . one important thing we be do in the Bill be make it much easy to terminate a contract . a person should be able to end a contract as easily as they enter into it , and that be an important part of the Bill . the Government be bring forward a series of amendment that remove the requirement for business that offer subscription contract to send a reminder notice ahead of the first renewal notice in instance where there be no free trial . for business that offer those contract type , the amendment will see their regulatory burden decrease as they will be require to send only two reminder notice per year instead of three . that also ensure that consumer do not receive too many notice at the start of their contract . the requirement to send a reminder notice before a free or low - cost trial roll over to a full contract will remain in place . in addition , we be create a new power for the Secretary of State to disapply or modify reminder notice requirement in respect of particular entity or contract , and amend the timeframe in which a business must send a reminder notice to a consumer . the amendment provide great flexibility and clarity on when reminder notice should be send , allow for adaptability post implementation . a further amendment clarifie that , in the event of a dispute about the cancellation of a contract , the onus be on the consumer to prove that the method in which they send a notification to cancel their subscription contract be sufficiently clear . that intend to rectify the concern that business will be subject to enforcement action if a consumer attempt to cancel their subscription contract through unconventional mean , for example through a tweet . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Craig Whittaker ) and the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) for their continued engagement on Second Reading and in Committee on the issue of whether society lottery be capture under the subscription measure . as I say in Committee , it be certainly not our intention to capture those contract . we be therefore introduce an amendment to clarify that gambling contract , which be already regulate under gambling law , be exclude from the scope of the subscription contract measure . I trust that that amendment will offer they , and those in the industry , clarity on the matter . let I turn to a series of technical Government amendment in relation to protection for consumer saving scheme . such scheme involve make deposit to save towards a specified event such as Christmas or back - to - school shopping , and they be a vital mean for british family to budget for those big occasion . the Bill be not design to capture routine advance payment for service . in order to avoid possible uncertainty , we be introduce amendment that will exclude contract regulate by Ofcom , such as prepaid pay - as - you - go mobile phone contract , as well as contract for prepaid passenger transport service , such as prepay Transport for London Oyster card , from the list of what constitute a consumer saving scheme . finally , we be introduce two amendment to maintain the effect of the Consumer Protection : Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 , which the Bill repeal and largely restate . the first relate to the application of disclosure of information provision in part 9 of the Enterprise Act 2002 , and the second relate to the information requirement place on a trader in certain circumstance . two technical amendment be also be introduce . new clause 14 to 21 make a series of recommendation relate to the recommendation make by the CMA in its market study report on road fuel . competitive market drive down price and offer a significant mean of tackle cost of living pressure . that be why we commission the CMA ' s road fuel study , which lead to a market study in which the CMA find that competition between fuel retailer have weaken in recent year . accept the recommendation of that study , we be take swift action to introduce an ongoing road fuel price monitoring function , within the CMA , to monitor development in the road fuel market . the amendment provide the CMA with information - gather power that will allow it to operate that function effectively . the power be similar to those that the CMA can use during a market study or investigation , but specific to the road fuel sector . the amendment will allow the CMA to ask a business involve in the distribution , supply or retail of petrol and diesel for information in order to assess competition in the market and the impact on consumer . the new power be support by enforcement provision , include for the CMA to impose civil penalty for non - compliance . the power will be time - limited and will require a review by the Secretary of State after five year , to consider whether the power should be extend by regulation . I will finish on cross - cut provision that affect the digital market , competition and consumer regime . we be remove the eight - year tenure limit for Competition Appeal Tribunal chair , enable the CAT to retain experienced and skilled judge . a further set of amendment relate to the provision of investigative assistance to overseas authority , in connection with overseas criminal competition and consumer enforcement investigation . the investigative provision apply across the digital market , competition and consumer regime . finally , some technical amendment to the general provision apply across the Bill , deal with matter such as commencement . I want to ensure that there be plenty of time for member to debate the Bill at this important stage , and I appreciate the constructive and collaborative approach that colleague have so far take during the passage of the Bill . first , let I say how pleased I be to see the Minister remain in post , and I thank he for his collaboration during the passage of the Bill ; it have be appreciate by those on the Labour Front Bench . I be keen to highlight a number of amendment table in my name that , sadly , have be significant government omission . new clause 29 and 30 relate to subscription trap , which frustratingly still remain in the Bill . I have hear from the Minister and I be grateful for his approach , but Labour have pledge to end subscription trap , which see consumer get stick in auto - renew contract that they do not explicitly ask for follow free trial , by make company end automatic renewal as a default option . the plan would change the current system of " opt out " to ensure that customer actively " opt in " , save people money during this Tory Government ' s cost of living crisis . in the last year alone , people in the UK spend half a billion pound on subscription that auto - renew without they realise , and unused subscription be cost people more than £ 306 million per year . that be impact marginalised group and those on low income considerably more than other . it could mean that those least able to absorb the cost of be in a subscription trap be more likely to be in one , and the impact on those people will be more acute . although the Government have recently make change so that company will be mandate to provide a reminder to consumer before renew their subscription , sadly that change do not go far enough . I urge colleague to support these new clause , because this issue be impact people in each of our constituency the length and breadth of our island . in addition , amendment 225 would address the common issue of drip pricing , which impact people across the UK . as colleague will be aware , drip pricing be the practice of business advertise only part of the product ' s price , and then later reveal other obligatory charge as the customer go through the buying process . the Government promise to tackle that issue in the King ' s Speech , but they have not table their own amendment on it . indeed , the King ' s Speech be the fourth time that this Government have promise to act since 2016 , and enough be enough . can the Minister clarify exactly why the Government have choose to ignore the opportunity to right this wrong in the legislation ? broadly , the Bill be welcome by the Opposition , but it be well overdue . it be a positive step forward in create new competition in digital market that will enable the competition authority to work closely and fairly with business to ensure fair competition and to promote growth and innovation . labour in particular welcome competition and consumer choice and protection as sign of a healthy , function market economy . it be vital , if we be to make the UK the good place in the world to start and grow a business , that digital opportunity be open for all . we be committed to ensure that a pro - business , pro - worker , pro - society agenda be build for Britain , and we see consumer protection and competition law as play an integral part in that . I look forward to the Minister ' s response , and I look forward to see this Bill finally progress to become an Act . may I start where I leave off when the Bill hit second reading by say that it be extremely welcome and create an enormous amount of important and much - need change ? I continue to support it in principle . my purpose in rise today be to speak to new clause 31 , which I have table and 29 parliamentary colleague have support . those who be familiar with the Kremlinology of the Conservative parliamentary party will understand that the new clause do something wondrous to behold , which be that it unite the breadth and every single part of the party behind one central idea : well regulation . I should pause briefly just to say that well regulation be distinct from deregulation . well regulation be not say that we want to trash standard ; it be say that standard of everything from environmental standard to worker ' right all matter , but it do also matter that government of any type and stripe make sure they try to deliver those standard in the cheap and most efficient and economically logical way possible . that be the difference between deregulation and well regulation . it be about deliver high standard , but in the most economically sensible way . that be what new clause 31 attempt to do . it be worth point out that we have a regime that work pretty well for about five or six year between 2010 and 2016 , and it do something along those line . it be call " one in , one out , " and then it be upgrade to " one in , two out . " it basically say that any new piece of legislation or regulation have to be cost for the extra cost it be add on to the british economy , and before it could be introduce the Minister concerned have to find an equally large amount of cost to remove from other regulation elsewhere to begin with . later , it be twice as much cost to remove from other regulation elsewhere . that work reasonably well , except that it have some loophole deliberately leave , partly because it could not affect anything create in Brussels when we be member of the EU , and also because it do not cover thing such as the economic regulator , Ofgem and Ofwat and so on . that system change to what everyone hope would be a well one in 2016 , but it turn out to be an absolute disaster . instead of gently but steadily bear down on the cost of regulation , we see a huge ballooning in cost in the first year of the new system , and there be a target of reduce the cost of regulation across the economy by £ 8 billion or £ 9 billion . instead of that , they increase by that amount . one would have think that would have mean that the sky fall in , everyone would have be horrify by that notion and this place would have be up in arm , but not a bit of it . there be zero reaction from any party across the House , because the system be lack some crucial point . the crucial thing it be miss be a proper accountability mechanism for when government of any kind fail to deliver on well regulation principle and on reduce the cost to wealth creation in this country , and inherently therefore reduce the rate of growth in the country and the improvement in productivity that we all want to see . it mean nothing happen within Parliament . clearly , we can not leave thing as they stand , and new clause 31 be an attempt to try to put that right . it would do something very simple , and it come back to what I have call net zero red tape , which be effectively one in , one out , with the cost of any new piece of legislation or regulation need to be match by find countervail saving elsewhere , but it would also do something else . the new clause say , " we need to make sure that there be not just a commitment from Ministers , but a legal duty on government — not just this Government , but all future government — to make sure that everyone who be a Minister , when they get out of bed on a Monday morning , know they have a legal duty to deliver on this . " that would mean that if Ministers do not deliver on it , they will have break the law . break the law mean they be in breach of the ministerial code , which this Parliament and all Parliaments take seriously . it would be a far more effective trigger mechanism for ensure proper accountability and that this measure be deliver . I would be the first to admit that this new clause be not perfect . that be because the parliamentary Clerks have rightly say , " hang on a second ; this Bill have a scope , and you can not exceed it . " therefore the new clause can not , even though I devoutly wish that it could , apply the basic principle that I have just be explain to the House across the entire economy — would that it could . as it be , it can only apply those principle to the economic regulator and anything to do with competition and consumer law . that be a huge step forward , because , as I mention , the previous regime all exclude the activity of economic regulator , and we will now enfranchise they , if we agree this new clause . that be worth do , but the new clause be far from perfect , because it can not cover the rest of the economy . incidentally , the relevant bit of accountancy — the reporting on whether cost have be add or subtract — have to devolve to the Competition and Markets Authority under the scope of the Bill , when in fact a perfectly respectable initial grouping , the Regulatory Policy Committee , already do it . it be full of clever and well - intentione people , and I think the CMA would rather it do not have to do this work if it could avoid it ; it would rather that other do it . it be not a perfect amendment , but it none the less would take we a big step in a much - need direction and establish an important principle . I be grateful to the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who mention that we have be have extensive discussion over the weekend in an attempt to lock in these fundamental underlying principle and to find way to perhaps broaden they beyond just the scope of this Bill . I hope that in his closing remark he will be able to come up with some comment that may allow I not to press this amendment to a vote . fundamentally , the crucial thing we have to ensure be : proper independent measurement , reporting and accountability on the cost of new regulation , rather than anything that can be lend on by Government ; proper consequence for Ministers in any Government who fail to deliver on try to reduce those cost ; and that no Government feel like they have a blank cheque on spend other people ' s money . it be stark to examine the difference in how we approach taxpayer - fund spending versus regulation cost - fund spending . at the moment , a Minister or official who want to spend taxpayer ' money have a squillion different hoop that they have to jump through , and rightly so . there be lot of control on that spending undertake by the Treasury and follow up by the Public Accounts Committee , and I can see one of the senior member of that Committee here today , my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) . it be highly regulated and control , and great attention be pay to it in this Chamber . however , if one want to spend five , 10 or 100 time that amount of money by increase the cost to business through regulation , there be not a peep . much less attention be pay to those way of spend cash , and that can not be right . as everybody here will understand , a pound take in tax have the same underlying economic impact on the country ' s rate of growth as a pound take in extra cost to business . we should treat both thing with equal seriousness , rather than pay huge attention to one and largely blithely ignore the other , while write blank cheque . any regime have to fix that problem as well . my hon . friend engage in some self - deprecation at the beginning of his speech about the scope of the new clause , which I co - sign , but I think he be undersell it . the consumer protection and economic regulation in the new clause go a long way towards reduce the burden of red tape . the second thing that be really important be that this be not about the number of regulation , but their economic value . that be what really place a burden on business in this country . will he explain how he be go to establish a baseline through the new clause ? if this thing be to be measure properly , we have to have a proper baseline . my hon . friend be right : I may have be guilty of be too glass half empty , rather than glass half full . the new clause go a very long way and enfranchise large chunk of the economy that perhaps have not be deal with properly up until now ; I just want to go even far and cover the entire economy . he be right to point out that the new clause do quite a lot , but it be half a loaf rather than the whole loaf , if I can put it that way . my hon . friend be also right to say that the accountancy — the measurement of the cost — be crucial . if we be try to do one in , one out , we have to know the cost of the thing come in so that we can know what saving we have to find elsewhere . as I mention , the crucial thing be that we need to have an independent accounting body — an independent measurement body . that will require the Regulatory Policy Committee to be make a little more independent and to be give more arm ' s length ability to set those accounting and measurement standard in a way that can not be leant on by senior Ministers , senior mandarin or senior regulator . the committee need to be able to look those people in the eye and say , " no , this be the way it ' s get to be . " like any good external auditor , it need to be sufficiently at arm ' s length to deal with that . if it do so properly , it will mean that any set of measurement can be rely on , both by my hon . friend ' s Committee and the rest of this Chamber . that be essential . to bring my remark to a close , if we do not adopt the system propose in the new clause , we need a system that provide proper accountability for anybody who fail to hit these target ; proper measurement and independent accounting standard to make sure that Government and regulator can not mark their own homework ; and proper target of some kind to make sure there be a standard to which Ministers must be hold . I hope that my hon . friend the Minister will be able to reassure I , and I look forward to his remark . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) , who make some very interesting argument . in some of they , I hear echo of the argument that have be make by the Opposition during my few year in this place about try to measure the effect that legislation have when it be pass . amendment that seek to measure that effect routinely get knock down , but there be a fundamentally useful point in what he say about the need to make sure that we be not suffer from unintended consequence and that the goal we be seek be the one that result , so that corrective measure can be take if they be not . hansard record that on Second Reading , I be wish " good luck ! " by the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) when — perhaps intoxicate by an overly friendly and useful exchange across the Floor about the scourge of fake review — I think we might get to a consensus that would allow something to appear in the Bill . sadly , the hon . member ' s cynicism appear to have be well found : there be certainly nothing about fake review in the Bill that I can see . I accept that the Government might amend that in future through secondary legislation — they be certainly able to do so — but as I say early this afternoon , that inevitably restrict the scope of the sanction that can be levy for that behaviour . I appear to have have a little more success in another area . in his opening remark , the Minister say that when it come to additional gold - plating of the rule and regulation affect charity lottery and gambling for that purpose , there be a risk of charitable organisation be catch up as an unintended consequence of the legislation . I be absolutely delighted that the Government appear to have listen , and have table Government amendment 170 , which " exclude contract for gambling ( that be regulate by other legislation ) from the new regime for subscription contract " . I very much welcome that amendment . on that basis , I will not seek to move amendment 228 , which stand in my name and which I press to a Division in Committee . a rather gruesome spectre be raise in the debate early — phantasm and fear that will not arise , apparently . that bring I neatly to new clause 1 , 2 and 3 , which be table by the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) — a series of amendment that appear to be aim squarely at a somewhat contest narrative surround the personal financial arrangement of somebody currently reside in a very small part of a jungle somewhere in Australia . their appearance there be set to land they a fee that — if the scale of that bounty be as report — would surely have every private banking manager the length and breadth of London fight for their custom . when most of we speak in this Chamber about financial exclusion , usually we be talk about a lack of access to cash or about the ability to access one ' s cash without a service charge at an ATM . we be talk about a lack of access to credit or to any kind of bank account , and very much not about those suffer the privation and indignity of have to deal with a bog - standard current account rather than be court by Coutts . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that this issue have come to people ' s attention because of Nigel Farage . I will talk about that case in a moment , but what have emerge be that actually , quite a lot of people — and sometimes charity — who have view that bank do not like find that they be not able to get access to a bank account , which nowadays be a fundamentally important thing for people ' s carry on an ordinary daily life . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . there be already a multiplicity of legislation and entitlement — indeed , he appear to reference they in new clause 1 — that can be use to tackle such circumstance when they arise , if indeed they do . I find it very encouraging that in draft new clause 1 , the right hon . Gentleman have alight on the relevant provision of the european convention on human right , which provide a very useful earthing point for many of the fundamental right that we hold dear and , indeed , be a bulwark of a civilised society . perhaps we will see a similarly stout defence of they in future debate in this Chamber . I very much welcome new clause 14 , which will require company to comply with request for information from the Competition and Markets Authority when it come to the pricing of motor fuel . on 9 November , the CMA publish its first monitoring report on the road fuel market , and while 12 of the large retailer respond to that request , I be give to understand that two do not . from my perspective and , I be sure , the perspective of many other wherever in this Chamber they sit , that be simply not acceptable . I be sure we can all point to large variation in the cost of petrol , diesel and other form of motor fuel across our constituency , sometimes in fill station that be only a few mile apart or even within relatively close proximity . that be certainly a great source of contention for people right across my constituency , so the Government require retailer to provide the CMA with that information be an important strengthening of its power , and one that we welcome . new clause 29 and 30 , which stand in the name of the hon . member for Pontypridd , seek to tackle subscription trap . I appreciate that the Government have table amendment 93 , which seek to tackle these trap by issue reminder , and that be a welcome step forward . nevertheless , I be bind to observe that SNP Members , at least , believe that a well balance could be strike by ask consumer whether they wish to opt in to automatic renewal or to variable rate contract , rather than simply get reminder about they , which will inevitably end up in the recycling bin or junk mail folder , even for the most attentive of consumer . have to opt in would be far well and it would protect the consumer ' s interest to a far great extent than simply have the opt - out option email or mail , or convey in some other way , in due course . if those new clause be put to a vote , the SNP will support they in the Lobby . I hope to speak briefly , as the hor d ' oeuvre for the pi è ce de r é sistance , which will be the speech by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , who have table excellent amendment . although I do not sign they , for which I apologise , I very much endorse and support his effort in these area . these be important matter that need to be deal with , and this be the right forum in which to do so . I wish to speak briefly in summary about provision that I speak to in the first group and simply reiterate that the thrust of the new clause I have table , and be support in by a number of right hon . and hon . member , be all about accountability . new clause 24 seek a review of the work of the Competition Appeal Tribunal and be all about make sure that that body be function as effectively and expeditiously as possible to deal with these important matter . the work of the tribunal have become progressively more scrutinised . I do not wish to cast aspersion on its chair or member , who work extremely hard . it be an impressive body , which be look upon internationally for its work . however , there be no doubt in my mind and in the mind of many other that there be more work to be do to streamline and improve the CAT ' s process if it be increasingly to be look upon and rely upon as an important arbiter of issue relate to digital market , among other thing . the consumer interest duty set out in new clause 25 be at the heart of what we be try to do here . couple with that , new clause 26 seek to allow claim for damage under part 4 of the Bill and be an attempt to reframe the way in which the Government be approach the provision on subscription , to which I have table a number of amendment . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Minister and the Government for have listen and move on that issue . however , it seem to put the cart before the horse a little to not allow claim for damage , but to put through exemption that would mean that if I be to seek to terminate my subscription via Twitter , the company concern would not be liable . it would be far well to have a general liability in damage and not to have such prescriptive clause in the first place that would be liable to misinterpretation . I be offer the Minister another way of look at it that would be less prescriptive . I have to come back to the Minister on the point that I make to the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Meriden ( Saqib Bhatti ) : there be an odd juxtaposition between different part of the Bill , where we be tell in one breath that primary legislation be not the appropriate vehicle for prescribing procedure , yet here we be prescribe in minute detail procedure relate to subscription in the Bill . my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Eddisbury ( Edward Timpson ) have make the point for I , and it be one we well know : secondary legislation allow for great flexibility , so that if a new potential problem or abuse be identify in this fast - grow market , the Government would be able to plug the hole and deal with the subscription issue . my amendment 210 seek to change the requirement on reminder , so that they be issue not every six month but every 12 month . it accept that whereas I have subscription but be sadly unable to watch that much tv , many other enjoy subscription to various provider , be on top of their subscription , and know exactly what they be do . we must not make an assumption that the consumer be utterly uninterested in how they spend their money . these subscription will amount to a lot for many family and be significant outlay for they . I accept that we do not want people to be trap inadvertently , or market abuse , but we sometimes need to reflect the reality of the situation more appropriately . the amendment ' s 12 - month requirement align the provision with what we see in other regulated sector . there be nothing particularly novel about the way in which I want that amendment to work . I absolutely support the Government ' s intent on termination right . I want it to be easy for consumer to leave contract . the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , know the point about " any mean " and have seek to deal with it ; I suggest a well way . as for cool - off period , which be deal with in my amendment 219 to 222 , I do not know whether they actually deal with the subscription trap issue . clearly , free or discount subscription period be a legitimate and well - recognise strategy that allow customer to exit . we have to be careful when we place constraint on the ability to offer those period in order to attract new customer , and there could be unintended consequence here : the cool - off period could , perversely , allow a consumer to sign up , binge - watch series one of " the Crown " , and come off the subscription , but then sign up and binge - watch again when series two come out , without have pay a penny piece . that be not right and it do not strike the right balance , give the historical problem that provider have with people piggy - backing on other ' subscription and enjoy a service that one should reasonably be expect to pay for . look at the lack of prescription on the number of time people can enter and exit cool - off period , we see that perverse incentive may well be create as a result of the change in the Bill . let we not forget that we have provision on cool - off period that will continue to apply . I ask the Government to tread carefully , and to focus on the great harm cause by subscription trap , rather than seek to complicate the position far . on implementation , the Government have the choice of allow commencement two month after Royal Assent , which would be normal , or lay commencement order . I strongly urge they to be clear about commencement order and timing , because implementation be everything , and this legislation potentially bring a significant regulatory burden for business in the sector . I suggest that we not only provide for sufficient time , but have a sense of choreography , and bring regulatory change in on common date — at the beginning of October or April of any give year . I be absolutely with the Minister in seek to get this right , and to get regulation in the right place , but I ask he to make his imprint on the legislative calendar a little less heavily , and to use a more flexible mechanism than primary legislation . I would be the first to criticise the Government for excessive use of delegate legislation — the principle should be that we place matter in the Bill where appropriate — but in a world where so much be delegate and so much be not in primary legislation , it seem incongruous , to say the least , that we be prescribe this regime in this particular way . I look forward my hon . friend the Minister ' s response to my argument , and I thank he for his engagement on this issue . I rise to speak to amendment 226 and 227 in my name , which would introduce a take - down power to ensure that unsafe or counterfeit good be remove from sale online . we cover this issue in some detail in the Bill Committee , where the problem of dangerous online sale be liken to the wild west , due to the risk to individual consumer and the lack of governance . I be disappointed that we still do not have clarity on how the Government want to tackle this grow concern , because this be fundamentally about safety and the Government fail in their core duty to keep people safe . the Minister know that unsafe product buy online have cause death in the UK . we have see fire and other catastrophic damage cause by dodgy good buy online , and since the Committee complete its consideration , a coroner have specifically cite faulty e - bike charger in a report on a death . the coroner ' s report in September suggest that at least 12 people have die and a further 190 have be injure in faulty e - bike and e - scooter blaze in the UK since 2020 alone , and that be only one area of problematic online sale . the coroner ' s report go on to call for great action , and say : " it be clear that there be an exist , ongoing and future risk of further death whilst it continue to be the case that there be no control or standard govern the sale in the UK of lithium - ion battery and charger ( and conversion kit ) for electric - power personal vehicle . " there be a call for the Government to act in the face of further problematic item and dangerous good be sell online . my amendment help to address the situation , where such item be identify . not everything we discuss in this place be a life - and - death issue , but this can be . the Minister have have many representation from organisation about the growth of unsafe and dodgy good sell online as legit : the British Toy & Hobby Association and Electrical Safety first issue briefing that support my amendment in Committee . trading standard also support great mean of take action , and brief in support of the amendment in Committee . at this time of year , it be even more important to act and raise awareness , because many people be buy their Christmas gift online . be super organised , I have my seven - year - old ' s Christmas present all safely stash away at home . I be pretty confident she be not watch tonight and will not be look for they , although who know ? I genuinely would not buy her gift online because I be fearful about what happen to those who do trust some online site . research by the British Toy & Hobby Association in 2021 show that some 60 % of child ' s toy buy online be unsafe for a child to play with , and 86 % be illegal to sell in the UK . that be very disturbing . some of the problem it discover be counterfeit good , fire safety and chemical restriction failure , and packaging or part that present choke hazard . they be all product that online marketplace have be tell about but have not remove from sale . in Committee , we have more time for detailed example . we have less time here , so I will give just one , the toy crocodile story , and I will make it snappy . in July 2018 , Amazon be tell about a dangerous crocodile toy that be put child ' s life at risk and be be sell widely online . trading standard intervene several time , and in January 2020 the Office for Product Safety and Standards also intervene , but that toy range be still on sale online today , five year later . that be unacceptable , and sadly it be not a one - off . the OPSS have issue recall notice due to what it call " serious risk of fire and electric shock " for 90 product that be still on sale on Amazon , and 20 that be still on sale on eBay . there be a fundamental problem with the current regime and system . my amendment seek to restore confidence . the consumer organisation which ? have also alert mp to , among other issue that it have discover , the problem of energy - save device that do not save energy but do present significant risk , include plug with no fuse . there be unity in the call for great action . the chief executive of the Government ' s own Office for Product Safety and Standards say last November that " there be too much evidence of non compliant product be sell by third party seller " online . the National Audit Office and the Public Accounts Committee have also call for action . my amendment be not about new regulation or new pressure on business , which the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) talk about . they be about enforce standard and rule for all , both online and on our high street . the Minister , when he open this section of the debate , say that he want fairness and a level playing field for all . I want that for british consumer and business as well . People have a misplace faith that there be a level playing field , and that what they see in Argos and what they can buy on Amazon be regulate in the same way , but sadly they be not , and without my amendment they will not be . since Committee , I have tidy up the amendment slightly to ensure that they include a power to require the removal of item that be unsafe or counterfeit . that power link to the Government ' s list of organisation in clause 144 , to ensure that the same body as be list in the Bill be involve . I be try to help the government and try to help more generally , because there be wide benefit to get this right . UK high street be struggle . remove unsafe good from online sale will mean that british high street shop that meet regulation will get a boost , as will british manufacturer who play by the rule but be undercut by import from other country that do not meet our safety and other standard . my amendment be design to address all those issue and help to ensure that our standard be meet . there be unity in the call for great regulation , and for a new sheriff or a new marshal for the wild west — not a rhinestone cowboy , singe the same old song and try to stick up for a system that be fail british customer . I will end on consumer right . I do not believe in the enfeeble state , which seem to be accept by some Ministers . we be tell that the whole " take back control " narrative be suppose to lead to well right for Brits , but we already lack right that our european cousin have . french , dutch , irish and polish customer now all have well protection , through the Digital Services Act , which have be pass by the EU since we leave it — crucially , with the support of Amazon . it be beyond shock that Amazon seem to understand and support the need for change before most of the UK Government do . however , there be a glimmer of hope . there be one Minister who have call for action , and have say that we should make the UK the " safe " place in the world to shop and do business online . that same Minister tell this House that " we should go far than that and require marketplace to ensure that such product be not on their site at all , ever " . — [ Official Report , 20 January 2023 ; Vol . 726 , c . 715 . ] I agree with that Minister . these amendment help to deliver his aim , and we be lucky that that Minister be before we in this debate . I hope that when he get back to his foot , he will reward my optimism and say that the Government will act now . I will not push the two amendment to a vote today , in the hope that my take - down power will be take up by the Government before or during Lords consideration . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) . I be also grateful to the Minister for his thorough engagement on these matter . he have be extremely diligent , helpful and , as always , courteous . let I begin by declare a sort of semi - interest . I do not think it be technically one that the Standards Commissioner would worry about , but Mr Farage and I both appear on a television programme under the auspex of GB News at about the same time of day — I follow he . I have no financial relationship with Mr Farage ; we merely appear on GB News at a similar time of day . it be Mr Farage who bring to the attention of the public the issue of de - banking . it be a great problem ; if someone ' s bank suddenly say to they , " we be not provide you with any facility " , where do they go ? it be very hard to go to a new bank . new bank do not want people who have be de - banked . Nigel Farage become in a way the poster boy for this issue , highlight something that be affect people up and down the country , affect charity , and affect business that have be to see I as a constituency MP in the past — people run certain type of business , who find that their banking facility be withdraw without any proper answer or explanation . a pawnbroker who come to see I have have his banking facility take away . his be a perfectly honest and reputable business , but inevitably it deal with a lot of cash , which make bank nervous and , when they be nervous , they need to give that customer a proper explanation as to why they be no long get that service . the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) , in an elegant speech , tease I for stand up for Nigel Farage as if debanking be not a common problem . he mention that Mr Farage be off in the jungle eat offal and all sort of other tasty morsel . yes , that have have the benefit of bring people ' s attention to something that be affect our constituent across the country . therefore , I do indeed draw on definition , but only definition , from the european convention on human right — this be not a sudden damascene conversion to such a document ; it be simply that those definition be in our law and it be useful to base any amendment to a Bill before the House on exist law . that lead I , as always , to thank the Clerks for their mastery of ensure that amendment be within scope , because get the new clause into scope , as my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) find with his excellent new clause , which I will come to , be not particularly easy . that be why , in affect consumer but not business , it do not go as far as I would have like . this matter be of such fundamental importance . you may think , Mr Deputy Speaker , that I be not all that much in favour of the modern world and that I think it would be nice if we could go round with the odd groat or perhaps a sovereign to pay our way , but sadly that age of specie have go — you might even say that the age of specie have become specious , but it be in the past . everybody now need modern banking facility . cash be not use anything like as much as it be , and every transaction that people carry out need a piece of plastic , a bank that it come from and a telephone or some type of technology . when somebody be debanke , it be like the Outlawries Bill on which we only ever have a first reading : they be effectively make an outlaw in their own land . they be without the normal law of the land and the ability to do ordinary thing . that be why new clause 1 to 4 be really important , and a protection for people . to return again to Nigel Farage , the idea that someone should be debanke because of legal political opinion be outrageous . the hon . member for Gordon tease I for mention Nigel Farage , but actually a separatist who want to break up the nation have a political opinion that in other country would be consider treason . those in China who say , " Free Tibet — have an independent Tibet , " do not get a lot of quarter . so once we start say that someone can be debanke for hold Nigel Farage ' s view , what about be in favour of scottish independence ? would that be a view that one bank might not like and might say that member of the SNP — a perfectly legal party — should not be bank with it ? it affect every political opinion , and a political opinion may be fashionable today , but tomorrow it may not be . we always have to consider in legislation the protection of free speech against the interest of pass fashion , because we and Opposition Members may be affect by it in a slightly different or changed environment . be we not talk about slightly different thing ? there be a highly contest narrative around the circumstance the right hon . Gentleman describe , but my understanding be that the gentleman in question be not so much debanke as offer a less account and have subsequently find somewhere he can bank satisfactorily . the hon . Gentleman be misinformed . Mr Farage be only offer any new bank account with NatWest rather than Coutts when the story become public . prior to that , he have not be offer any banking facility , nor have he be able to find another bank that would take he on . so the fact of the matter be that Coutts / NatWest debanke he because of the extraordinary internal set of communication , which have become public and lead to the resignation — effectively the firing — of the chief executive of NatWest , partly for gossip about his banking circumstance , but also for the behaviour that have lead to his banking facility be take away for his political opinion . that be quite clear from the information that have emerge . my right hon . friend ' s new clause relate to debanking , prompt by a particular incident . would he not accept that there be the broad issue that the pursuit of environmental , social and governance goal by corporation and the pursuit of value in association with diversity , equity and inclusion objective raise the same issue on a much broad front than banking facility ? what would he recommend the Government should do on that ? I agree with my hon . friend that it do go much far . some time ago , the Bank of England issue a document suggest that loan should not be give to company invest in oil and gas when we need oil and gas for the foreseeable future . I think that this politicisation of banking be quite wrong , and ESG be not fulfil the fiduciary duty of investor to provide the good return to their client . we should look at that . can I clarify that when the right hon . member talk about bank , outlaw and dodgy cash , he talk about high street bank and not Arron Banks ? I be talk about the banking system generally , and I be say that it be important that people should have banking facility regardless of their political view . it be important that russian oligarch may be sanction — that be a legitimate thing for government to do — but that require the rule of law . I want to touch briefly on some of the other amendment to which I have attach my name . I once again agree with my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) on new clause 24 and — particularly — 25 . put the consumer first must be the essence of what we be try to do . to my absolute horror , I have discover that I agree with he on turn some of these measure into secondary legislation . Skeleton Bills be a dreadful thing . we get awful legislation come into the House on which there be no detail at all because it will all be decide by Ministers later . such Bills should be deprecate . the House of Lords be good at push back on they ; this House less so . Skeleton Bills be bad idea — except , there be a place for secondary legislation , and that be it . for some utterly random reason , a Government who have bring forward extraordinary skeleton Bills , some of which I could mention and have mention in the Chamber on occasion , have bring forward every last detail on something that , in its essence , will need revision and update and to meet different standard as time go by . it be a modest eccentricity to have put that in the Bill . I suggest that , in the other place , the Government look at whether that detail could be easily turn into secondary instrument , with such instrument ready to come into force at the same time as the Bill , so there would be no delay . that structurally would make for a well Bill . I be embarrassed to be speak in favour of secondary legislation , because normally I want to see thing in the Bill . if we could have a promise of few skeleton Bills in future , I would be delighted . against that , I could not disagree more with new clause 29 and 30 . those make a real mistake — dare I say it , they be typical socialist amendment — because they do not trust people . it seem to I that people be sensible : they know what they be do , they volunteer to do it , and they be free to undo it . yes , of course , it be important that they should be free to undo it , but there be a cost to over - regulation . if we make company write all the time to say , " be you sure you want to do this ? " that put up the price . the profit margin for the business will not change , but the price that they charge consumer will . if they be constantly say , " do you want to leave we ? " that will put the price up , because there will be an administrative and bureaucratic cost to that , and a loss of business that will put up the overall cost for everybody . it be legislate for inefficiency base on the idea that consumer be stupid . well , in North East Somerset , consumer be very clever , highly intelligent , and know what they have agree to and what they have not agree to . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - mare . his new clause 31 be genius because it get to the heart of an incredibly complicated and difficult matter that no other piece of legislation that we have try have really work with . even the one in , one out that we have from 2010 to 2015 do not really work . I seem to remember read that the Crown ' s ownership of sturgeon be cancel during this period because it count as a " one out " , allow some regulation to come in , no doubt cost million , as we get rid of something trivial . one in , one out be not really there , but this new clause do it on a proper cost audit and look ultimately to cover everything . that be absolutely the right way to go . my hon . Friend make the superb point that whenever any type of Government expenditure be involve , it be look at , review and refer to a Committee , yet when regulation worth billion be involve , they pass through without so much as by your leave . this be a really important new clause and I encourage the Government to do whatever they can to implement it . a final thought before I conclude be on petrol station . this be very good news . why be it that the Tesco ' s in Paulton be more expensive than the local service station in Ubley ? I use the local service station in Ubley because it be well value for money , but Tesco ' s in Paulton be more expensive than the Tesco ' s on the outskirt of Bristol . that be very unfair on my constituent and I want it to bring its price down . every little help . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . we all have that image in our head now , of which particular supermarket you be talk about . as other hon . member have say , this Bill be much need and will help in so many way . hon . member have seek to address a number of vex issue in this legislation . this include an attempt , through our Opposition amendment 225 , to address drip pricing , which I know as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse be especially prevalent in the primary and secondary ticketing market . in these market , customer often have to wait until the payment screen to see a complete price breakdown . in the secondary market , customer be often draw in by Google - pay ad to professional look site such as Viagogo , which be sell ticket for many time their face value and engage in illicit business practice . initial price , while eye - watering , be present , but there be no breakdown of the exact amount for service charge or vat . the consumer be leave in the dark about what they be actually pay for until it be time to pay , usually after have navigate many more time - waste page on the website and almost lose the will to live and the power of rational thought . even then , the price be often still estimate when the customer eventually hit " buy now " , after feel that they will lose the ticket if they do not make the decision quickly . lot of customer still get a nasty surprise when the payment confirmation email come in and they see the actual amount that have be take from their bank account or credit card . move on more broadly to the Competition and Markets Authority , I be aware that the CMA make its recommendation on tackle abuse in the ticketing market to the Government in August 2021 , which the Department for Culture , Media and Sport then sit on for over 18 month before make an outright rejection of they . principally , these recommendation call for strong law to tackle illegal ticket resale , and this Bill could and should have be — and could still be — the perfect place to introduce those power . I be therefore very disappointed that the Government be still resist these modest call from the body set up to regulate our market . I support effort in the Bill to ensure healthy competition online , but why not extend it to tackle online ticket tout ? site such as Viagogo have be allow to grow and gain a monopoly over ticket resale while be accuse of benefit from the illegal bulk buying of ticket and the wholesale speculative selling of ticket that they simply do not have . this include Viagogo seller attempt to sell thousand of festival ticket that they have not purchase and do not have the title to , as well as something know as the golden circle , an online rent - a - bot group illegally buy masse of ticket for the upcoming tour of Beyonc é and Taylor Swift , even when artist such as Swift actively speak out against tout and take measure to protect their ticket from end up in the hand of tout instead of fan . body such as the CMA need to be empower to address this abuse . however , some Tory Back Benchers be today seek to tie the hand of the cma by force through new clause 31 , which would require the CMA to spend more time on compile economic impact report than on protect business and consumer . new clause 31 would reduce the cma from be our strong statutory enforcement agency to a toothless information - collation and report - write quango . surely these report should be compile by a body such as the Regulatory Policy Committee , not by the statutory enforcement agency . I do not know whether the hon . Lady hear my early remark , but let I reassure she that new clause 31 would not reduce the cma just to that ; it would still have all its other power . in fact , the total number of staff employ by the RPC to do this at the moment be relatively small . I also mention that if the Minister be able to come up with alternative way of deliver a fully independent and therefore much more objective way of do the RPC ' s job — perhaps by strengthen the RPC — I would be delighted to accept that instead . I agree . I be sure that would be a much well way . I definitely do not think that the CMA should have to do what the new clause be seek to do . I have it on good authority that professional tout now number anywhere from 3 , 000 and 3 , 500 . in all the time I have be campaign and speak on this issue , which be get on for 15 year , those number be in the ten , the fifty and the hundred . it shock I to know that we be now try to deal with this level of professional tout . they be attack everywhere , from stadium gig to local venue and , increasingly , football game . they should not be able to tout ticket for football game , but they do . yet accord to Home Office figure , the yearly arrest of football ticket tout have be decrease , drop from 107 in 2011 - 12 to only 28 in the 2019 - 20 season . in my opinion , the lone conviction of just two tout nearly four year ago , which we discuss with the Minister in the last debate on this Bill , be not a strong enough deterrent , especially as it rely on outdated legislation such as the Companies Act 2006 and the Fraud Act 2006 , rather than the purpose - build Consumer Rights Act 2015 , which I be substantially involve in , or the Digital Economy Act 2017 . I appreciate the effort in the Bill to protect consumer online , and I can see that there be measure in the Bill to be welcome , but for I , ticket touting and the widespread fraud that come with it must be properly address and regulatory body must be fully empower to tackle these site . I will leave my remark there . when first announce this Bill , the Prime Minister promise that it would clamp down on greenwashe and bring misleading environmental claim under the umbrella of consumer protection law , but the reality seem to fall far short of that — something to which we should perhaps have become accustomed when contemplate the gap between this Government ' s environmental rhetoric and their lack of concrete action . while the Bill allow for consumer redress if commercial practice result in their being mislead , confused or misinformed , the measure it contain certainly do not amount to the robust action on greenwashe that the Prime Minister lead we to believe would be forthcoming . I have therefore table two amendment that would go some way towards deliver on the promise that he make . as a multibillion pound persuasion industry , advertising have an enormous influence on which company we trust , on our lifestyle choice and on the purchase we all make . we be all expose to thousand of advertisement on a more or less daily basis . to protect consumer from misinformation and harm , advertising must be properly and fairly regulate . however , we currently have an advertising regulation system that be slow , opaque and , in short , fail . the UK ' s Advertising Standards Authority be not an independent regulator ; it be self - fund by the advertising industry . any complaint that the ASA handle about misleading or harmful advertising be essentially therefore mark its own homework . the ASA ' s motivation to fairly regulate be wholly undermine by its close proximity to the industry it should be hold accountable . my amendment 208 seek to address the regulatory gap as a matter of urgency . it would create a regulator that be independent , transparent and one that can take timely action , thus well protect consumer from mislead messaging by polluter and other harmful commercial actor . I think consumer want action . they be increasingly concerned about the role of company in produce waste , pollution and environmental harm , and ignore human right . yet in response these same company turn to advertising to try to clean up their image and shore up their social licence to operate . new evidence report in the Financial Times show that Shell , one of the world ' s top polluter , be estimate to have spend £ 220 million on advertising in 2023 . much of that advertising be aim at young generation , who be perhaps more vulnerable to mislead claim . mislead green advertising and greenwashing be on the rise . the ASA ' s response have be to update its minimal environmental guidance to advertiser and to rule against just a tiny number of advert for Shell , HSBC and other high - carbon advertiser for make mislead green claim . those ruling be often slow and be often make well after the damage have be do . time - consume complaint have largely be bring by civil society organisation concern with the impact of advertising and greenwashe on consumer wellbeing and their right , but it should not be leave to those organisation to have to try to enforce misleading advert and to ensure that those advert do not go unchecked . we need a robust regulatory framework and it be disappointing that the Government do not use the opportunity afford by the Bill to deliver one . the ASA celebrate its slim count of investigation into polluter advertising while a whole sea of greenwash escape its notice and seep into consumer consciousness . only 2 . 4 % of advert report to the ASA over environmental concern see any formal action in 2022 , while thousand go unreported and therefore see no action at all . this be a drop in the ocean . we simply can not afford this lack of effective advertising regulation to continue . my amendment 208 be a small but essential step if we be to stop the most polluting advert from promote our own environmental demise . my other amendment be 207 . it be another small but essential step , this time towards tackle the way in which the advert to which we be expose to every day be themselves fuel the climate crisis . the UK advertising industry be responsible for 208 million tonne of carbon dioxide - equivalent emission in 2022 . to put that another way , advertising be responsible for the equivalent of just under a third of the carbon footprint of every single person in the UK . no wonder that , from the World Health Organisation and the House of Lords Environment and Climate Change Committee , to the UN ' s environment programme and the Committee on Climate Change , there be universal agreement about the need to regulate the advertising of high - carbon product . high carbon clearly mean fossil fuel , flight and suv . I would argue that it also probably mean fast fashion , most meat and dairy , and the bank fund the like of BP and Shell . I therefore back the many campaign for a ban on high - carbon advertising and for interim measure , such as car advertisement with mandatory content about the benefit of active travel and public travel , as have be do in France . in the meantime , and in the absence of a Government prepare to act in line with the climate science and other evidence demand , my amendment 207 would bring consideration of net zero emission by 2030 into the consumer protection regime envisage by the Government . let I say a few word about why that be 2030 , rather than 2050 . the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change be clear that limit global temperature to 1 . 5 ° require that the whole world reach net zero by 2050 , a deadline that have be directly translate into domestic target . but the UN Secretary - General , for example , be among many who have call for develop country to commit to net zero much soon , by 2040 . when we look at the UK ' s own historic responsibility , and indeed our financial mean , that put we into the category of rich country that , in the interest of fairness , should be go fast and far . give the rate at which we be eat through our remain carbon budget for 1 . 5 ° — accord to some scientist , 1 % a month — far and fast in term of the UK translate to we achieve zero emission by much close to 2030 or 2035 , thereby give country in the global south long to cut their emission . this idea be actually enshrine in climate law around the idea of common but differentiated responsibility , but sadly it be more respected in the avoidance rather than in the implementation . of course , that timeframe be undoubtedly hugely challenging . it will require a scale of social and economic transformation far surpass what we have see to date — hence the need for action across the board , include in relation to the advertising industry and consumer law . specifically , amendment 207 would signal that achieve net zero by 2030 be in the collective interest of consumer and it would help protect consumer from any detrimental effect arise from commercial practice that do not fully reflect the need to stay within that limit . mislead advertising be unfairly influence consumer who want to do the right thing to protect the environment . it be delay climate action just when we need to shift consumption pattern towards low carbon alternative . it be far flood consumer with advert that normalise and glamourise high - carbon product and way of living , something the regulator , with its limited remit , can not currently act upon , and which the current limited understanding of consumer collective interest do not encompass . the scale and urgency of the climate and nature crisis be such that they should be factor into every single piece of legislation . my two amendment be design to do exactly that by deliver on the promise the Prime Minister make about greenwashe , and by deliver on what every shred of evidence tell we about the impact of that advertising on our precious environment , and therefore on consumer ’ long - term collective interest . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) . she be , if I may say so , the conscience of the Chamber in relation to net zero and environmental issue . she always give we a helpful reminder of the importance of those issue for all of we across this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . it have be incredibly encouraging to hear the comment make thus far by all member on all side of the House . it be also great to see the intention of the Bill , which lie solely around the consumer , and consumer right and protection . the Minister very helpfully set the scene in a way we can all adhere to and agree with . if the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) put forward some of his amendment , maybe the Government will also support they . if they do , we will have no need to divide the House . the new consumer protection measure in the Bill be intend to apply to the whole of the UK . consumer protection policy be devolve to Northern Ireland , and reserve for Scotland and Wales . it be my understanding that , as a result , consent will be require for Northern Ireland . it would be helpful if the Minister could confirm what discussion he will have , or have have , with Northern Ireland Departments to ensure that they can be implement as soon as possible . read through the Bill and the amendment and new clause that have be table , I be ever mindful that the Government do have power . in new clause 69 , for instance , sectoral enactment be in place for the Water and Sewerage Services ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2006 , the Gas ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1996 and the Electricity ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1992 . there seem to be a methodology whereby decision for Northern Ireland can be make . again , as an Northern Ireland MP , I think it be important that we understand what the implication be and how the process will work for we . I wish to refer to new clause 4 and also to new clause 29 , which be table by the shadow Minister and which seem to be a perfectly amenable suggestion . I very much welcome the Minister ' s commitment in his opening speech to address the issue of fuel price . a number of right hon . and hon . member have refer to that matter . clearly , there be something wrong if the fuel price on one side of Newtownards in my constituency be different from that on the other side , but it be even more wrong if one of the major store have a price at a certain level , yet far up the road that same store have a different price . it really be quite hard to comprehend how that can happen . I wish to highlight the subscription issue , which many member have refer to today . I have be make aware of two example that I wish to put on the record in Hansard . I believe that these issue be be address . the Minister refer to that in his opening speech . the fact be that we be now live in an online world . I be afraid that I be not one of those who can do that — I make that admission here in this Chamber — but most people be involve in that world . it be a world where there be almost always an opportunity for subscription payment . even newspaper now offer an online subscription service to get premium access to certain article . these service be good if they be use correctly . I hear a story from one of my member of staff . one of her subscription be with an online clothing company , which charge £ 50 a month for she to get access to clothe at a significantly cheap rate . at the start of the month , for four day only , there be an opportunity to skip the month and not pay the £ 50 payment . the issue , quite simply , be that if people forget to skip the month , they be charge that £ 50 . there be something wrong with that . no reminder be send by the company , so this be a smart way for company to make more money , as be forgetful be a human error . again , I be keen to get the Minister ' s idea on whether this legislation address that issue . prompt and reminder be a key aspect of the clause on subscription . the Government estimate that subscription contract cost consumer £ 1 . 6 billion a year . I be pleased that the Bill will put a requirement on business to send reminder notice to consumer if a subscription be due for renewal . there be some good thing in the Bill , include on automatic renewal subscription . another issue be that , with many company , there be no way to cancel a subscription online . I refer to this matter briefly in my intervention on the Minister at the start of the debate . such a cancellation must be do over the phone . some constituent have tell I that the phone process can be frustratingly long , as it can take hour to get through to the call handler . it be a bit like when we phone department on behalf of people . unless someone phone through to a Minister ' s office , they join a queue that can take five , 10 or 15 minute — even when it be an MP . many phone line be open only from 9 be to 5 pm , Monday to Friday . where do that leave consumer who work full time and who may not be available during the day to seek the answer that they need ? their only free time might be at weekend . I know that the Minister always respond to our question , which I and many other greatly appreciate , so I would be interested to hear what he think . to conclude , I be pleased that the Bill address so many of the issue that our constituent experience , but these matter must continue to be highlight . I think we have all mention some example . I ask the Minister to engage regionally with Northern Ireland Departments to ensure that the law around consumer right apply to Northern Ireland at the same time as they do to the mainland . I look forward to hear about that in due course , and also about how we can all take advantage equally of the issue that have be raise in the House tonight , so that across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , we can all be equal citizen — equal under the law and equally subject to the law . I thank right hon . and hon . member for their contribution to the debate and for their ongoing engagement . first , let I speak to the amendment table by the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , who have thoroughly enjoy our engagement over the week that we have be study the Bill . new clause 29 would impose a requirement on trader to ask their customer whether they want their subscription to renew automatically every six month when they sign up to a subscription contract . if they do not choose this auto - renewal option , the contract would end after six month , unless the customer expressly ask for it to continue . new clause 30 would apply equivalent requirement to contract that renew automatically after a free or low - cost trial . the Government agree that consumer must be protect from get trap in unwanted subscription . however , we do not think the new clause would deliver this in the right way , and such an approach could end up inconvenience many consumer . for example , if a consumer have not initially opt into an auto - renewing contract , but later decide that they want to keep the subscription , they would have to repeatedly communicate that they want to continue their subscription or risk its unintentionally lapsing . that risk could be multiply across each subscription they hold . the new clause would also impose undue additional cost on business . as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) rightly state , all regulatory cost end up be bear by consumer , so we must approach regulation with extreme care . the Government ' s approach strike the balance of protect consumer without compromise the benefit of roll subscription and the convenience they provide . on amendment 225 , the Government recently consult on tackle the practice of drip pricing , and we will shortly set out the next step , follow an assessment of the response . it would be premature to amend the Bill in advance of that . turn to my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) , I agree with the instinct behind his idea to control the cost of red tape and regulatory burden in new clause 31 , and with many of the point make about this issue in his government - commission report on competition policy and the subsequent 18 - month update that he publish . I suggest that together , we can do well than what be set out in the new clause . he too know that , as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset say , all regulation be ultimately pay for by consumer . it be absolutely right that we look to minimise regulation and that we also recognise that the good form of regulation be competition , which be what we be here to promote . in his " power to the People " report , my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare recommend a one in , two out solution . it will be interesting to see where we can go with that . everybody , certainly on the Government Benches , be concerned about regulation and the increase burden on business . however , if we look at some of the regulation that we impose on business in 2021 - 22 — this be from " Better Regulation : Government ' s Annual Report " — significant regulation be put in place cover thing such as make our telecommunication more secure against foreign actor , climate - relate financial disclosure and make home more efficient , which I think most people would acknowledge we should do , as well as sanction against russian oligarch and the rest . those regulation be not necessarily the burden that many member might consider they to be . when we look at regulation , we have to decide what be the right thing to do — the right thing to leave , the right thing to take out and the right thing to amend . we have make a start by update the well regulation framework , with early scrutiny of regulatory proposal by the Regulatory Policy Committee so that its advice can be apply before a legislative solution have be settle on . the update framework focus on design the least burdensome policy , avoid regulation completely where possible , and minimise cost and administrative burden where regulation be require . in parallel to our call for evidence and forthcoming consultation , we be seek to change the culture of regulation in the UK to be more pro - growth and business friendly . new clause 31 propose some important further measure . it would create much strong accountability for any future Government who fail to control red tape cost properly . it would plug an important historical loophole by include economic regulator in the well regulation framework , and it would provide extra independence for the accountancy sector in report on change in regulatory burden , so that government can not be accuse of mark their own homework , as my hon . friend put it . however , the new clause be constrain by the scope of the Bill , so it can not plug all the historical gap in the well regulation framework , and it make the CMA a successor to the RPC , when there may be well way to ensure enhanced independence . as a result , I would suggest a well alternative approach . any regime should recognise the economic benefit as well as cost of any change to regulation . account for they be complex : some be indirect , some be externality and some take year to manifest or come to fruition . individual regulator should take responsibility for report on their activity , include what they have do to support the growth of the business they regulate , as well as what additional burden they have create or remove , and why . in each case , I agree that we will need to establish target and metric to monitor the success of our regulator and of Government Departments in promote growth . there be a few legitimate exception from the RPC ' s scrutiny process , such as urgent or civil emergency measure , but that should not mean whole area of the economy be exempt from its scrutiny , otherwise we would leave loophole that mean cost be still not scrutinise and potential benefit be ignore . although the RPC be already an independent scrutiny body , I agree that we should find way to ensure even strong and more independent measurement and reporting of change in regulatory benefit and burden , without assume that the good or only answer be for the CMA to take over this function , as the new clause propose . finally , there must be strong accountability than at present for any Government who fail to control regulatory burden properly . although we do not think it be right to accept the new clause as it stand , I accept and agree with many of the thing it try to achieve . I therefore invite my hon . friend to work with official and I to develop a well , strong way of achieve his four aim through a mixture of potential Government amendment to the Bill and other measure or statement of government policy to be release publicly before Royal Assent , where the change fall outside the Bill ' s scope . I hope these proposal be acceptable and that he will not press the new clause . Amendment 228 , which be table by the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) , seek to exclude lottery ticket purchase from non - commercial society lottery from the scope of the provision on subscription contract . we agree with he on this , which be why we table a Government amendment to that effect . I thank he for his contribution . new clause 24 , which be table by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , would require the Secretary of State to commission a review of the Competition Appeal Tribunal ' s process , independent of the CMA and the DMU . I be grateful for his focus on this important matter and for the legal knowledge he bring to bear . the Competition Appeal Tribunal Rules 2015 , which set out the tribunal ' s procedure , require the Secretary of State to carry out a regular review of the rule and to publish their conclusion , which last happen in April 2022 . new clause 24 would unnecessarily duplicate this work . turn to new clause 25 , the CMA ' s overarch objective be to promote competition for the benefit of consumer , and this must shape the design of its intervention and how it prioritise its work . a consumer duty would overlap with that objective and be , in our view , unnecessary . new clause 26 would extend the right to seek damage at the Competition Appeal Tribunal to all infringement of part 4 . the Bill already provide for consumer redress in respect of some provision of part 4 . additionally , the private redress provision in part 3 include the power for public enforcer to seek enhanced consumer measure , include financial redress for consumer . amendment 210 would reduce the frequency with which a trader must send reminder notice . we share the intention of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon to ensure that business and consumer be not overburden by reminder notice . however , we believe that this amendment would negatively impact consumer by increase the risk that they end up pay long for unwanted subscription . we think that require trader to send reminder every six month strike the right balance . amendment 211 would create a new power for the Secretary of State to make reasonable provision relate to the content and timing of reminder notice . amendment 212 and 213 would then remove exist provision relate to such matter from clause 252 and schedule 20 . as my right hon . and learn Friend recognise , we have table an amendment that provide a power to amend these detail through regulation , enable the Government to respond should evidence of consumer behaviour or operational practice indicate that adjustment be necessary . amendment 214 to 217 would remove requirement that be design to ensure trader provide easy and accessible mean for consumer to end their subscription contract . instead , principle would be set out to guide the arrangement put in place by trader , and relevant provision would be make in secondary legislation . the Government be commit to ensure that consumer be not hinder when try to leave a subscription contract or when try to stop a subscription renewing — the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) also raise that point . that be the objective behind these provision , and it be vital that they remain in the Bill . it be also critical that consumer have flexibility when end their contract , rather than business dictate the communication channel , such as a phone cancellation only . we appreciate that any communication to end a contract must be sufficiently clear to a business , as be underline by Government amendment 102 . that amendment make it clear that the onus be on the consumer to prove that their communication be sufficiently clear . amendment 219 to 222 would remove the mandatory cool - off period for subscription contract . it be important to retain those provision as they provide essential protection for consumer . the renewal cool - off period protect consumer who have sign up to trial or long term contract . that be particularly important since our consultation show that many people forget to cancel those subscription before they automatically renew . we understand , however , that some business be concerned about how the cool - off period will work in practice , particularly for digital streaming service . this be an important issue to get right , so the Government will publicly consult on the return and refund rule to ensure that they be fair and practical for business and consumer . that will include consult on a waiver of cool - off right for some product . amendment 223 and 224 would apply a two - year implementation period to the subscription contract provision in the Bill . the Government fully understand that clarity be important so that business know when the new rule will come into effect and can make the appropriate preparation . that be why we will continue to engage with stakeholder to understand the impact of implement these new rule . let I move on to the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) — he and I have be walk these street for so long . amendment 227 would ban in all circumstance the marketing of counterfeit and dangerous product online , which be already offence under current consumer protection and product safety law . the Government be commit to strengthen enforcement of these law through the reform in part 3 of the Bill , and recently consult on a number of proposal in the product safety review . amendment 226 would confer on public enforcer the power to require removal of such material from the internet . the Government have consult on this issue , with proposal to extend the power to apply for online interface order to all public enforcer . the Government will publish their response shortly . finally , the public safety review include proposal specifically aim at tackle the sale of unsafe good online . we will publish a response in due course . the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) seek to add further anti - discrimination law relate to payment account provision . the Government have be clear about the importance of protect lawful free speech . it be unacceptable for bank and payment service provider to discriminate on the basis of lawfully hold political view , and other such as pawnbroker , as he mention . consequently , the Government support the spirit of the amendment , but do not believe that it be necessary , principally because the Government have take significant action to build on exist protection to resolve this issue since the amendment be table . on 2 October , the Chancellor commit to amend the threshold condition that financial service firm must meet in order to be authorise and to consult on how to deliver that . it will ensure that bank uphold their current legal duty , include requirement not to discriminate on the basis of political opinion , therefore ensure freedom of speech . safeguard will also be put in place to protect consumer . bank will be require to put in place safeguard to protect consumer right , include free speech , and regulator will be require to act when they be not comply with . in addition , the Government announce that the legal notice period for payment service contract termination will increase to 90 day , and payment service provider will be legally require to give consumer clear , tailor explanation detail why they close their account . I thank the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) for all her work on the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse . she raise the point about the secondary ticket market . we have take action in this area ; I know she be not content with where we be today , but the CMA have new power in the Bill to fine business up to 10 % of turnover , which will include ticket tout . indeed , it have already take action against two tout , with confiscation order of £ 6 . 1 million in 2022 . on amendment 207 , table by the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , enforcer can already take action under the Bill to protect consumer during the transition to net zero . for example , they have power to tackle mislead green claim . we be already make strong progress towards net zero by 2050 . the UK have reduce its emission far and fast than any other major economy . on amendment 208 , establish mean have long play an important , cost - effective and proportionate role in tackle and stop unfair commercial practice . particularly in the field of mislead advertising , body such as the ASA have play a key role in expand the reach of consumer protection law compliance . in closing — [ hon . member : " hurray ! " ] I have go on long than I would have like to , but an awful lot of amendment be table . in closing , I hope that right hon . and hon . member will see from the Government ' s amendment that we have listen to the concern raise during the passage of the Bill , and that we be determined that it will deliver well outcome for consumer and small business . question put and agree to . new clause 7 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 8 - use of damage - base agreement in opt - out collective proceeding " ( 1 ) in section 47c ( 9 ) of CA 1998 ( collective proceeding : damage and cost ) , for paragraph ( c ) substitute — ' ( c ) " damage - base agreement " have the same meaning as in section 58aa of the Courts of Legal Services Act 1990 but as if in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) of that section , in the word before sub - paragraph ( i ) , for " , litigation service or claim management service " there be substitute " or litigation service " . ' ( 2 ) the amendment make by subsection ( 1 ) be treat as always have have effect . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause ( which would be insert into chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Bill ) respond to the Supreme Court judgment in R ( PACCAR Inc ) v Competition Appeal Tribunal [ 2023 ] uksc 28 . it provide that a damage - base agreement be only unenforceable in opt - out collective proceeding before the Competition Appeal Tribunal if the agreement be with a provider of advocacy or litigation service . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 9 - merger of energy network enterprise " Schedule ( merger of energy network enterprise ) make provision amend Part 3 of EA 2002 and Schedule 16 to the Energy Act 2023 in relation to merger involve energy network enterprise . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause ( which would be insert into chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Bill ) introduce the schedule insert by ns1 which amend Part 3 of the Enterprise Act 2002 to facilitate the investigation of merger involve energy network enterprise under section 68b or 68c of that Act and under section 22 or 33 of that Act by the same CMA Group , and to make other minor amendment to provision relate to merger involve energy network enterprise . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 10 - power to make a reference after previously decide not to do so " ( 1 ) section 131b of EA 2002 ( market study and the making of decision to refer : time limit ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in the heading , after ' time - limit ' insert ' etc ' . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 7 ) , for ' this section be ' substitute ' subsection ( 4 ) to ( 6 ) be ' . ( 4 ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — ' ( 8 ) where the CMA — ( a ) have publish a market study notice , and ( b ) have decide not to make a reference under section 131 in relation to the matter specify in the notice , the CMA may subsequently make a reference under section 131 in relation to the matter ( without first publish a market study notice in relation to the matter ) only where subsection ( 9 ) apply . ( 9 ) this subsection apply where — ( a ) the reference under section 131 be make two year or more after the publication of the market study report in relation to the market study notice , or ( b ) there have be a material change in circumstance since the preparation of the report . ' " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause ( which would be insert into chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Bill ) respond to the decision of the Competition Appeal Tribunal in Apple v CMA [ 2023 ] CAT 2 . it allow the CMA to make a reference under section 131 of the Enterprise Act 2002 , if it have previously make a decision not to do so , in the two case mention in what will be new subsection ( 9 ) of section 131b of that Act . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 11 - take action in relation to regulated market " ( 1 ) in chapter 4 of Part 4 of EA 2002 ( market study and market investigation : supplementary ) , section 168 ( regulate market ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( j ) . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( g ) , for ' the duty of the Director General of Electricity Supply for Northern Ireland under article 6 of that order ' substitute ' the objective and duty of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation under Article 12 of the Energy ( Northern Ireland ) order 2003 ( S . I . 2003 / 419 ( N . I . 6 ) ) ' ; ( b ) omit paragraph ( l ) ; ( c ) in paragraph ( m ) , for ' the duty of the Director General of Gas for Northern Ireland under article 5 of that order ' substitute ' the objective and duty of the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation under Article 14 of the Energy ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2003 ' ; ( d ) in paragraph ( r ) , for ' monitor ' substitute ' NHS England ' . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 5 ) , in paragraph ( ia ) , for ' monitor ' substitute ' NHS England ' . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause ( which would be insert into chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Bill ) tidy up section 168 of the Enterprise Act 2002 to remove spend reference and to correct reference that have become out of date . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 12 - meaning of " work day " in Parts 3 and 4 of EA 2002 " ( 1 ) part 3 of EA 2002 ( merger ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in chapter 1 ( duty to make reference ) — ( a ) in section 25 ( extension of time limit ) — ( i ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after ' 20 ' insert ' working ' ; ( ii ) in subsection ( 5 ) , in paragraph ( b ) , after ' 10 ' insert ' working ' ; ( b ) omit section 32 ( supplementary provision for the purpose of section 25 ) ; ( c ) in section 34za ( 3 ) ( time limit for decision about reference ) omit the definition of ' working day ' ; ( d ) in section 34zb ( extension of time limit ) omit subsection ( 9 ) ; ( e ) in section 34zc ( section 34za and 34zb : supplementary ) omit subsection ( 9 ) . ( 3 ) in chapter 2 ( public interest case ) — ( a ) in section 54 ( decision of Secretary of State in public interest case ) — ( i ) in subsection ( 5 ) , after ' 30 ' insert ' working ' ; ( ii ) omit subsection ( 8 ) ; ( b ) in section 56 ( competition case where intervention on public interest ground cease ) — ( i ) in subsection ( 4 ) , in paragraph ( b ) , after ' 20 ' insert ' working ' ; ( ii ) omit subsection ( 5 ) . ( 4 ) in chapter 4 ( enforcement ) , in section 73a ( time limit for consideration of undertaking ) omit subsection ( 12 ) . ( 5 ) in chapter 5 ( supplementary ) — ( a ) in section 129 ( 1 ) ( other interpretative provision ) , at the appropriate place insert — ' " working day " mean any day other than — ( a ) a Saturday or Sunday , or ( b ) a day that be a bank holiday in any part of the United Kingdom under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 . ' ; ( b ) in section 130 ( index of define expression ) , at the appropriate place insert — ( 6 ) in Part 4 of EA 2002 ( market study and market investigation ) , in section 151 ( public interest intervention case : interaction with general procedure ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 3 ) , after ' 20 ' insert ' working ' ; ( b ) in subsection ( 5 ) , after ' 20 ' insert ' working ' ; ( c ) omit subsection ( 6 ) ; ( d ) at the end insert — ' ( 7 ) in this section , " working day " mean any day other than — ( a ) a Saturday or Sunday , or ( b ) a day that be a bank holiday in any part of the United Kingdom under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 . ' ( 7 ) in regulation 2 ( 1 ) of the Enterprise Act 2002 ( Merger Prenotification ) Regulations 2003 ( S . I . 2003 / 1369 ) , for the definition of ' working day ' substitute — ' " working day " mean any day other than — ( a ) a Saturday or Sunday , or ( b ) a day that be a bank holiday in any part of the United Kingdom under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 . ' " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause ( which would be insert into chapter 5 of Part 2 of the Bill ) amend Parts 3 and 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002 , and the Enterprise Act 2002 ( Merger Prenotification ) Regulations 2003 , so that they be consistent in provide that a bank holiday in any part of the United Kingdom be not a work day . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 13 - ADR fee regulation " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about the follow description of fee , namely — ( a ) fee to be pay by applicant for accreditation under section 289 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) fee to be pay by applicant for the variation of their accreditation under section 289 ( 3b ) ; ( c ) fee to be pay by accredited ADR provider under section 292 ( 1 ) . ( 2 ) the power to make provision about a description of fee include power to provide — ( a ) for fee of different specified amount to be payable in different case or circumstance ; ( b ) for case or circumstance in which no fee be to be payable ; ( c ) in the case of fee to be pay under section 292 , the time at which the fee be to be pay . ( 3 ) in make regulation under this section the Secretary of State must have regard to the need to secure that , take one year with another — ( a ) the total amount of fee pay do not exceed the cost to the Secretary of State of carry out function under this chapter ; ( b ) the total amount of fee pay under section 289 ( 1 ) do not exceed the cost to the Secretary of State of processing and determine application for accreditation ; ( c ) the total amount of fee pay under section 289 ( 3b ) do not exceed the cost to the Secretary of State of processing and determine application for the variation of an accreditation . ( 4 ) regulation under this section be subject to the negative procedure . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause ( which would be insert into chapter 4 of Part 4 of the Bill ) confer power to make regulation about the fee payable under clause 289 and 292 . the power include power to prescribe case or circumstance in which no fee be require to be pay . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 14 - Power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel " ( 1 ) the CMA may require an undertaking involve in , or connect with , the distribution , supply or retail of motor fuel ( ' u ' ) to give specify information to it where it consider that the information would assist the CMA in — ( a ) assess competition in the United Kingdom in connection with the retail of motor fuel ; ( b ) publish information about competition in the United Kingdom in connection with the retail of motor fuel ; ( c ) make proposal , or give information or advice , to the Secretary of State about the need for , or the potential for , action to be take ( whether by the Secretary of State or another person ) and what that action should be for the purpose of — ( i ) increase competition in the United Kingdom in connection with the retail of motor fuel ; ( ii ) benefit consumer of motor fuel ; ( d ) assess the effectiveness of any action take as a result of proposal make , or information or advice give , under paragraph ( c ) . ( 2 ) the power confer by subsection ( 1 ) be to be exercise by give u a notice ( an ' information notice ' ) . ( 3 ) the CMA must include in an information notice — ( a ) the time at which , or the frequency with which , the information must be give to the cma ; ( b ) the manner and form in which the information must be give to the cma ; ( c ) information about the possible consequence of not comply with the notice . ( 4 ) the power under this section to require U to give information to the CMA include the power to — ( a ) require U to take copy of or extract from information ; ( b ) require U to obtain or generate information ; ( c ) require U to collect or retain information that they would not otherwise collect or retain ; ( d ) if any specify information be not give to the CMA , require U to state , to the good of their knowledge and belief , both where that information be and why it have not be give to the CMA . ( 5 ) an undertaking may not be require under this section to give the CMA a privileged communication . ( 6 ) a ' privileged communication ' be a communication — ( a ) between a professional legal adviser and their client , or ( b ) make in connection with , or in contemplation of , legal proceeding , which in proceeding in the High Court would be protect from disclosure on ground of legal professional privilege . ( 7 ) in the application of this section to Scotland — ( a ) the reference to the High Court be to be read as a reference to the Court of Session , and ( b ) the reference to legal professional privilege be to be read as a reference to the confidentiality of communication . ( 8 ) in this section — ' consumer ' have the same meaning as in Part 4 of EA 2002 ( see section 183 ( 1 ) of that Act ) ; ' motor fuel ' have the same meaning as in the Motor Fuel ( Composition and Content ) Regulations 1999 ( see regulation 2 of those Regulations ) , but as if paragraph ( c ) and ( d ) of the definition of that term be omit ; ' specified ' mean — ( a ) specify , or describe , in the information notice , or ( b ) fall within a category which be specify , or describe , in the information notice ; ' United Kingdom ' include a part of the United Kingdom . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the definition of ' motor fuel ' in subsection ( 8 ) . ( 10 ) regulation under subsection ( 9 ) be subject to the negative procedure . ( 11 ) in this chapter , ' undertake ' have the same meaning it have for the purpose of Part 1 of CA 1998 ( competition : agreement , abuse of dominant position etc ) . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause ( which , along with the new clause insert by NC15 to NC21 , would form a new first chapter in Part 5 of the Bill ) allow the CMA to give an information notice to undertaking involve in the distribution , supply or retail of petrol or diesel require they to provide the cma with information for the purpose mention in subsection ( 1 ) of the clause . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 15 - penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) " ( 1 ) the CMA may impose a penalty on an undertaking where it consider that the undertaking have , without reasonable excuse — ( a ) fail to comply with an information notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) ; ( b ) destroy , otherwise dispose of , falsify or conceal , or cause or permit the destruction , disposal , falsification or concealment of , any document which the undertaking have be require to produce by an information notice under that section ; ( c ) give the CMA information which be false or misleading in a material particular in connection with an information notice under that section ; ( d ) give information which be false or misleading in a material particular to another undertaking know that the information be to be use for the purpose of give information to the CMA in connection with an information notice under that section . ( 2 ) the amount of a penalty impose on an undertaking under this section may be such amount as the CMA consider appropriate , provide it do not exceed the amount set out in subsection ( 4 ) . ( 3 ) the amount of a penalty under this section must be — ( a ) a fix amount , ( b ) an amount calculate by reference to a daily rate , or ( c ) a combination of a fix amount and an amount calculate by reference to a daily rate . ( 4 ) the maximum amount of a penalty that may be impose on an undertaking be — ( a ) in the case of a fix amount , an amount equal to 1 % of the total value of the undertaking ' s turnover ( both inside and outside the United Kingdom ) ; ( b ) in the case of an amount calculate by reference to a daily rate , for each day an amount equal to 5 % of the total value of the undertaking ' s daily turnover ( both inside and outside the United Kingdom ) ; ( c ) in the case of a combination of a fix amount and an amount calculate by reference to a daily rate , the amount mention in paragraph ( a ) , in relation to the fix amount , and paragraph ( b ) , in relation to the amount calculate by reference to a daily rate . ( 5 ) in impose a penalty under this section by reference to a daily rate — ( a ) no account be to be take of any day before the service on the undertaking concern of the provisional penalty notice under section 112 ( A1 ) of EA 2002 ( as apply by section ( Procedure and appeal ) ) , and ( b ) unless the CMA determine an early day ( whether before or after the penalty be impose ) , the amount payable cease to accumulate at the beginning of the day on which the undertaking first complie with the requirement in question . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision for determine the turnover ( both inside and outside the United Kingdom ) of an undertaking for the purpose of this section . ( 7 ) the regulation may , among other thing — ( a ) make provision about amount which be , or be not , to be include in an undertaking ' s turnover ; ( b ) make provision about the date or date by reference to which an undertaking ' s turnover be to be determine ; ( c ) confer on the CMA the power to determine and make provision about matter specify in the regulation ( include the matter mention in paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) ) . ( 8 ) regulation under subsection ( 6 ) be subject to the negative procedure . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause would allow the CMA to impose financial penalty on undertaking who fail to comply with an information notice give under the new clause insert by NC14 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 16 - Procedure and appeal " ( 1 ) section 112 ( penalty : main procedural requirement ) , 113 ( payment and interest by instalment ) , section 114 ( appeal ) and 115 ( recovery of penalty ) of EA 2002 apply in relation to a penalty impose under section ( penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) ) as they apply in relation to a penalty impose under section 110 ( 1 ) of that Act . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) section 112 to 115 of EA 2002 be to be read as if reference to ' the appropriate authority ' be reference to the cma only ; ( b ) section 114 ( 5A ) of EA 2002 be to be read as if the word ' in the case of a penalty impose on a by the CMA or OFCOM , ' be omit ; ( c ) section 114 ( 12 ) of EA 2002 be to be read as if , for paragraph ( b ) , there be substitute — ' ( b ) " the relevant guidance " mean the statement of policy which be most recently publish under section ( statement of policy on penalty ) of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 at the time of the act or omission give rise to the penalty . ' " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause apply provision in section 112 to 115 of the Enterprise Act 2002 , with modification , for the purpose of the new clause insert by NC15 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 17 - statement of policy on penalty " ( 1 ) the CMA must prepare and publish a statement of policy in relation to the exercise of power to impose a penalty under section ( penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) ) . ( 2 ) the statement must include a statement about the consideration relevant to the determination of — ( a ) whether to impose a penalty under section ( penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) ) , and ( b ) the nature and amount of any such penalty . ( 3 ) the CMA may revise its statement of policy and , where it do so , must publish the revise statement . ( 4 ) in prepare or revise its statement of policy the CMA must consult — ( a ) the Secretary of State , and ( b ) such other person as the CMA consider appropriate . ( 5 ) a statement of policy , or revise statement , may not be publish under this section without the approval of the Secretary of State . ( 6 ) subsection ( 7 ) apply where the CMA propose to impose a penalty under section ( penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) ) on an undertaking . ( 7 ) the CMA must have regard to the statement of policy most recently publish under this section at the time of the act or omission give rise to the penalty when decide — ( a ) whether to impose the penalty , and ( b ) if so , the amount of the penalty . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause require the CMA to publish a statement of policy about the imposition of penalty under the new clause insert by NC15 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 18 - Offences etc " destroy or falsify information ( 1 ) a person ( " p " ) commit an offence if , have be require to give information to the CMA under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) , p — ( a ) intentionally or recklessly destroy or otherwise dispose of it , falsifie or conceal it , or ( b ) cause or permit its destruction , disposal , falsification or concealment . false or misleading information ( 2 ) a person ( " p " ) commit an offence if — ( a ) p give information to the CMA in connection with an information notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) , ( b ) the information be false or misleading in a material particular , and ( c ) p know that it be or be reckless as to whether it be . ( 3 ) a person ( " p " ) commit an offence if p give information to another person which be false or misleading in a material particular and p — ( a ) either — ( i ) know the information to be false or misleading in a material particular , or ( ii ) be reckless as to whether the information be false or misleading in a material particular , and ( b ) know that the information will be give to the CMA in connection with an information notice under that section . sentence ( 4 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction in England and Wales , to a fine ; ( b ) on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland , to a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ; ( c ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed two year or to a fine or to both . offence by officer of a body corporate etc ( 5 ) if an offence under this section commit by a body corporate be prove — ( a ) to have be commit with the consent or connivance of an officer of the body corporate , or ( b ) to be attributable to neglect on the part of an officer of the body corporate , the officer as well as the body corporate be guilty of the offence and liable to be proceed against and punish accordingly . ( 6 ) if the affair of a body corporate be manage by its member , subsection ( 5 ) apply in relation to the act and default of a member in connection with the member ' s function of management as if the member be an officer of the body corporate . ( 7 ) if an offence under this section commit by a partnership in Scotland be prove — ( a ) to have be commit with the consent or connivance of a partner , or ( b ) to be attributable to neglect on the partner ' s part , the partner as well as the partnership be guilty of the offence and liable to be proceed against and punish accordingly . ( 8 ) in subsection ( 7 ) , " partner " include a person purport to act as a partner . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause make it an offence for a person to destroy or falsify information the person be require to give to the cma by virtue of an information notice give to the person under the new clause insert by NC14 or to provide the cma with false or misleading information in connection with such an information notice . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 19 - penalty under section ( penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) ) and offence under section ( offence etc ) " ( 1 ) the cma may not impose a penalty on a person under section ( penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) ) in relation to an act or omission which constitute an offence under section ( offence etc ) if the person have , in relation to that act or omission , be find guilty of that offence . ( 2 ) a person may not be find guilty of an offence under section ( offence etc ) by virtue of an act or omission if the person have pay a penalty impose under section ( penalty for failure to comply with notice under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) ) in relation to that act or omission . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause prevent a person from be charge a penalty under the new clause insert by NC15 , and be find guilty of an offence under the new clause insert by NC18 , in respect of the same act or omission . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 20 - information sharing " in Schedule 14 to EA 2002 ( provision about disclosure of information ) at the appropriate place insert — " chapter A1 of Part 5 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumer Act 2024 . " " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause provide that the restriction on the disclosure of information contain in Part 9 of the Enterprise Act 2002 apply to information that come to the CMA in connection with the exercise of its function under the new first chapter of Part 5 of the Bill to be form by the new clause insert by NC14 to NC21 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 21 - Expiry of this chapter " ( 1 ) this chapter , apart from subsection ( 5 ) of this section and section ( information sharing ) , expire at the end of the relevant period . ( 2 ) the " relevant period " mean the period of five year begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend this section to change the definition of the " relevant period " . ( 4 ) regulation under subsection ( 3 ) be subject to the affirmative procedure . ( 5 ) the expiry of this chapter do not affect its continue operation in relation to any information notice give under section ( power to require information about competition in connection with motor fuel ) before its expiry . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause provide that the new first chapter of Part 5 of the Bill to be form by the new clause insert by this Amendment , and nc14 to NC19 , expire five year after it come into force , unless the Secretary of State make regulation extend the period for which the chapter have effect bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 22 - Removal of limit on the tenure of a chair of the Competition Appeal Tribunal " in Schedule 2 to EA 2002 ( the Competition Appeal Tribunal ) , in paragraph 2 ( tenure etc ) omit sub - paragraph ( 2 ) . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this new clause ( which would be insert into Part 5 of the Bill ) remove the prohibition on a person be a chair of the Competition Appeal Tribunal for more than 8 year . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 29 - contract renewal : option to opt in " ( 1 ) before a trader enter into a subscription contract with a consumer where section 247 ( 2 ) apply , the trader must ask the consumer whether they wish to opt - in to an arrangement under which the contract renew automatically at one or more of the follow time — ( a ) after a period of six month and every six month thereafter , or ( b ) if the period between the consumer be charge for the first and second time be long than six month , each time payment be due . ( 2 ) if the consumer do not opt - in to such an arrangement , the trader must provide a date by which the consumer must notify the trader of the consumer ' s intention to renew the contract , which must be no early than 28 day before the renewal date . ( 3 ) if the consumer have not — ( a ) opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) , or ( b ) give notification of the consumer ' s intention to renew by the date specify under subsection ( 2 ) , the contract will lapse on the renewal date . " — ( Alex Davies - Jones . ) this new clause would allow the consumer to opt - out of their subscription auto - renewing every six month , or if the period between payment be long than six month , before every payment . if the consumer do not opt - in to auto - renewal , they would be require to notify the trader manually about renew . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Milling Scott Mann the House divide : Ayes 210 , Noes 280 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 20 March ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 30 - contract renewal : variable rate contract ( 1 ) before a trader enter into a subscription contract with a consumer where section 247 ( 3 ) apply , the trader must ask the consumer whether they wish to opt into an arrangement under which the contract renew automatically on the date the consumer become liable for the first charge or the first high charge . ( 2 ) if the consumer do not opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) , the trader must provide a date by which the consumer must notify the trader of the consumer ' s intention to renew the contract , which must be no early than five day before the renewal date . ( 3 ) the trader must also ask the consumer whether they wish to opt into an arrangement under which the contract renew automatically — ( a ) after a period of either six month from the first charge or high charge and every six month thereafter , or ( b ) if the period between the consumer be charge for the first and second time be long than six month , each time payment be due . ( 4 ) if the consumer do not opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 3 ) , the trader must provide a date by which the consumer must notify the trader of the consumer ' s intention to renew the contract , which must be no early than 28 day before the renewal date . ( 5 ) if the consumer have not — ( a ) opt into an arrangement under subsection ( 1 ) or subsection ( 3 ) , or ( b ) give notification of the consumer ' s intention to renew by the date specify under ( as the case may be ) subsection ( 2 ) or subsection ( 4 ) , the contract will lapse on the next renewal date . " — ( Alex Davies - Jones . ) this new clause would introduce an option for the consumer to opt - out of their subscription auto - renewing after their free or discount trial . otherwise , they would have to notify the trader manually about the subscription continue . it also introduce an option for the consumer to opt - out of their subscription auto - renewing . bring up , question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Andrew Western Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Andrew Bridgen Sara Britcliffe Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Caroline noke Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Scott Mann Amanda Milling the House divide : Ayes 209 , Noes 281 . question accordingly negative . clause 124 - offender assist investigation and prosecution : power of the CMA Ordered , that clause 124 be transfer to the end of line 39 on page 219 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment would move clause 124 ( offender assist investigation and prosecution : power of the cma ) from chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Bill ( competition : anti - trust ) to Part 5 of the Bill ( miscellaneous ) to reflect the fact that the power confer by the clause be exercisable in relation to offence relate to consumer matter as well offence relate to competition matter . clause 133 - final undertaking and order : power to conduct trial Amendment make : 69 , page 82 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend — ( a ) any sectoral enactment , or ( b ) section 168 of EA 2002 ( regulate market ) , in connection with provision make by Schedule 7 . ( 3 ) the power to make regulation under subsection ( 2 ) include power to make provision for the CMA or Secretary of State to be able to modify , or request that another person modify , any agreement , arrangement , condition , licence , statement ( or anything of a similar nature ) in connection with an implementation trial measure ( within the meaning of Part 4 of EA 2002 , as amend by Schedule 7 ) . ( 4 ) but so far as the power to make regulation under subsection ( 2 ) be exercise to amend a sectoral enactment that be mention in section 168 of EA 2002 ( regulate market ) , the power may only make provision in connection with a relevant action mention in subsection ( 3 ) of that section . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section the sectoral enactment be — ( a ) the Civil Aviation Act 2012 ; ( b ) the Health and Social Care Act 2012 ; ( c ) the Transport Act 2000 ; ( d ) the Chiropractors Act 1994 ; ( e ) the Railways Act 1993 ; ( f ) the Osteopaths Act 1993 ; ( g ) the Water Industry Act 1991 ; ( h ) the Broadcasting Act 1990 ; ( i ) the Electricity Act 1989 ; ( j ) the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 ; ( k ) the Gas Act 1986 ; ( l ) the Patents Act 1977 ; ( m ) the Registered Designs Act 1949 ; ( n ) the Water and Sewerage Services ( Northern Ireland ) order 2006 ( s . I . 2006 / 3336 ( N . I . 21 ) ) ; ( o ) the Gas ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1996 ( s . I . 1996 / 275 ( N . I . 2 ) ) ; ( p ) the Electricity ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1992 ( s . I . 1992 / 231 ( N . I . 1 ) ) . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must , before make regulation under subsection ( 2 ) that — ( a ) amend a sectoral enactment , consult the relevant sectoral authority ; ( b ) amend section 168 of EA 2002 , consult any relevant sectoral authority whom the Secretary of State consider be likely to have an interest in the amendment . ( 7 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 6 ) the relevant sectoral authority be — ( a ) in relation to the Civil Aviation Act 2012 , the Civil Aviation Authority ; ( b ) in relation to the Health and Social Care Act 2012 , NHS England ; ( c ) in relation to the Transport Act 2000 , the Civil Aviation Authority ; ( d ) in relation to the Chiropractors Act 1994 , the General Chiropractic Council ; ( e ) in relation to the Railways Act 1993 , the Office of Rail and Road ; ( f ) in relation to the Osteopaths Act 1993 , the General Osteopathic Council ; ( g ) in relation to the Water Industry Act 1991 , the Water Services Regulation Authority ; ( h ) in relation to the Broadcasting Act 1990 , the Office of Communications ; ( i ) in relation to the Electricity Act 1989 and the Gas Act 1986 , the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority ; ( j ) in relation to the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 , the Patents Act 1977 and the Registered Designs Act 1949 , the Comptroller - General of Patents , Designs and Trade Marks ; ( k ) in relation to the Water and Sewerage Services ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2006 , the Gas ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1996 and the Electricity ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1992 , the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation — ( a ) amend subsection ( 5 ) so as to add or remove an enactment ; ( b ) amend subsection ( 7 ) so as to add , vary or remove an entry . ( 9 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment give the Secretary of State the power to amend legislation relate to regulated market so that the cma , or the Secretary of State , can include in an implementation trial ( under Part 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002 , as amend by Schedule 7 to the Bill ) measure that require modification to be make to , for example , the condition of licence in connection with those market . clause 153 - Applications Amendment make : 70 , page 99 , line 19 , leave out " person " and insert " consumer " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment , which ensure consistency of draft with the parallel provision in clause 177 ( 3 ) ( d ) , require the activity mention in clause 153 ( 3 ) ( d ) to be direct at consumer in the United Kingdom rather than person more generally . clause 158 - undertakings under section 156 : procedural requirement Amendment make : 71 , page 103 , line 18 , at end insert — " and the propose variation or release have not be request by the respondent . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment ensure that the procedural requirement in relation to the variation or release of undertaking give under clause 156 will apply only where it be the enforcer , rather than the respondent , that have suggest the variation or release in question . clause 159 - consumer protection order or undertaking to court : further proceeding Amendment make : 72 , page 104 , line 12 , at end insert " of any kind that the enforcer concern be authorise under this chapter to apply for " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment clarify that an application in respect of a failure to comply with an undertaking give to the court may only be combine with an application for a consumer protection order of a type that the enforcer in question be otherwise authorise to apply for . clause 160 - undertakings to public designate enforcer : further proceeding Amendment make : 73 , page 105 , line 7 , at end insert " of any kind that the enforcer concern be authorise under this chapter to apply for " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment clarify that an application in respect of a failure to comply with an undertaking give to a public designate enforcer may only be combine with an application for a consumer protection order of a type that the enforcer in question be otherwise authorise to apply for . clause 180 - Undertakings under section 178 : procedural requirement Amendment make : 74 , page 119 , line 25 , at end insert — " and the propose variation or release have not be request by the person who give the undertaking . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment ensure that the procedural requirement in relation to the variation or release of undertaking give under clause 178 will apply only where it be the CMA , rather than the respondent , that have suggest the variation or release in question . clause 185 - final breach of direction enforcement notice Amendment make : 75 , page 124 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) where a final breach of direction enforcement notice include provision under subsection ( 5 ) that vary an enforcement direction or specify other direction , the notice must ( in addition to the requirement under subsection ( 4 ) ) also state that the respondent have a right to appeal against the notice and the main detail of that right . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment ensure that final breach of direction enforcement notice contain information on appeal right if the notice vary a direction or impose new direction . clause 195 - Insert Clause 195 Heading Amendment make : 76 , page 130 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) except in the case of an appeal relate to a final false information enforcement notice , in addition to the power confer by subsection ( 4 ) the appropriate appeal court may also remit any matter that be the subject of the appeal to the CMA . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment provide that on an appeal relate to a final infringement notice , an online interface notice , a final breach of undertaking enforcement notice or a final breach of direction enforcement notice , the court may remit a matter back to the CMA . clause 203 - notice under this Part Amendments make : 77 , page 136 , line 5 , leave out from " person " to end of line 6 and insert " — ( a ) under this Act by the CMA , or ( b ) under Part 3 by another enforcer ( within the meaning of that part ) . " see the explanatory statement for the motion to transfer clause 203 . amendment 78 , page 136 , line 32 , after first " the " insert " cma or other " . see the explanatory statement for the motion to transfer clause 203 . amendment 79 , page 136 , line 38 , after first " the " insert " cma or other " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) see the explanatory statement for the motion to transfer clause 203 . order , that clause 203 be transfer to the end of line 26 on page 220 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment would move clause 203 ( notice under Part 3 ) to Part 6 of the Bill where , when amend by Amendments 77 , 78 and 80 , it would apply for the purpose of Parts 1 and 3 of the Bill , and the new first chapter a1 of Part 5 of the Bill to be form by NC14 to NC21 . clause 215 - other interpretative provision Amendments make : 81 , page 142 , line 36 , before " profession " insert " trade , craft or " . this amendment ensure that trade and craft will fall within the definition of " business " for the purpose of Part 3 whether or not they be carry on for gain or reward . this ensure consistency with the definition of " business " in chapter 1 of Part 4 . Amendment 82 , page 142 , line 37 , leave out " a trade , craft or " and insert " any other " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 81 . clause 223 - omission of material information from invitation to purchase Amendment make : 85 , page 148 , line 32 , leave out " set out in subsection ( 2 ) " and insert " which be — ( a ) set out in subsection ( 2 ) , and ( b ) not already apparent from the context . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment provide that a trader do not , as part of an information to purchase , have to include any of the information list in clause 223 ( 2 ) if that information be already apparent to the consumer from the context . clause 232 - Offences : criminal liability of other Amendment make : 86 , page 156 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) if the affair of a body corporate be manage by its member , subsection ( 5 ) apply in relation to the act and default of a member in connection with the member ' s function of management as if the member be an officer of the body corporate . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment provide for which member of a limited liability partnership may be guilty of an offence of engage in an unfair commercial practice by virtue of clause 232 if the limited liability partnership be guilty of that offence . clause 234 - Time limit for prosecution Amendment make : 87 , page 157 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) to ( 6 ) . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this be a drafting amendment to ensure that the time limit for prosecute an offence under clause 230 be the same regardless of whether the offence be try summarily or on indictment . clause 244 - consequential amendment etc relate to this Chapter Amendment make : 88 , page 161 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) in EA 2002 — ( a ) in Schedule 14 ( provision about disclosure of information ) at the appropriate place insert — " chapter 1 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 . " ; ( b ) in Schedule 15 ( enactment confer function ) at the appropriate place insert — " chapter 1 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 . " " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment ensure that : a ) information that come to a public authority in connection with the exercise of its function under chapter 1 of Part 4 of the Bill be information to which section 237 of the Enterprise Act 2002 apply ( which impose a general restriction on disclosure of certain kind of information unless permit under Part 9 of that Act ) , and b ) that information to which section 237 apply can be disclose to a public authority for the purpose of enable that authority to carry out its function under chapter 1 of Part 4 . clause 249 - Pre - contract information Amendments make : 89 , page 164 , line 13 , leave out from " information " ) " to end of line 15 . this amendment and Amendment 90 clarify that the information set out in paragraph 12 of Schedule 20 must be give , or make available , under clause 249 ( 1 ) ( b ) in every case ( unlike the information set out in paragraph 13 to 27 of that schedule which need only be give , or make available , if applicable to the subscription contract in question and not already apparent from the context ) . amendment 90 , page 164 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the duty under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) to give , or make available , full pre - contract information apply in relation to the information set out in paragraph 13 to 27 of Schedule 20 only to the extent that the information be applicable to the contract and not already apparent from the context . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 89 . clause 251 - reminder notice Amendments make : 91 , page 166 , line 16 , after " consumer " insert " that do not include a concessionary period " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 93 . amendment 92 , page 166 , line 18 , leave out from " of " to end of line 21 and insert " each renewal payment that relate to the end of a relevant six - month period . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 93 . amendment 93 , page 166 , line 22 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) a " relevant six - month period " for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) be — ( a ) the period of 6 month begin with the day after the day on which the contract be enter into , and ( b ) each subsequent period of 6 month begin with the day after the day on which the consumer last become liable for a renewal payment in respect of which a reminder notice be require under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) where a trader enter into a subscription contract with a consumer that include a concessionary period , the trader must give to the consumer a reminder notice in respect of — ( a ) the first renewal payment for which the consumer will become liable under the contract , and ( b ) each subsequent renewal payment that relate to the end of a relevant six - month period . ( 3A ) a " relevant six - month period " for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) be each period of 6 month begin with the day after the day on which the consumer last become liable for a renewal payment in respect of which a reminder notice be require under subsection ( 3 ) . ( 3b ) a renewal payment " relate " to the end of a relevant six - month period for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) if — ( a ) it be the last ( or only ) renewal payment for which the consumer become liable during that period , or ( b ) in a case where the consumer do not become liable for any renewal payment during that period , it be the first renewal payment for which the consumer become liable after the end of that period . ( 3c ) for the purpose of this section a subscription contract include a concessionary period if it be a contract to which section 247 ( 3 ) apply . " this amendment , along with Amendments 91 and 92 , provide that a reminder notice be give at six month interval from the beginning of the contract , or from the first renewal payment in relation to a subscription contract that begin with a concessionary period , ( so far as possible , depend on the payment structure of the contract ) . amendment 94 , page 166 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for the requirement impose by this section and section 252 — ( a ) not to apply in relation to specify description of trader or contract ; ( b ) to apply subject to modification in relation to specify description of trader or contract . ( 7 ) regulation under subsection ( 6 ) be subject to the affirmative procedure . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment confer a power on the Secretary of State to disapply or modify the requirement to give a reminder notice in relation to trader or contract of a specified description . clause 252 - Content and time etc of reminder notice Amendments make : 95 , page 167 , line 11 , leave out from " give " to end of line 13 and insert " within the period specify by the trader for the purpose of this section in the key pre - contract information give to the consumer in relation to the contract ( see paragraph 9a of Schedule 20 ) . " this amendment and Amendment 96 revise the requirement as to when a reminder notice must be give in advance of the renewal payment to which it relate . it require the trader to give the notice during the period specify for the purpose in key pre - contract information . the period specify must be a reasonable period take account of the factor set out . amendment 96 , page 167 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) a period specify in key pre - contract information for the purpose of this section must be a period in advance of the last cancellation date which be reasonable for the purpose of — ( a ) inform the consumer that they will soon become liable for the renewal payment to which the notice relate , and ( b ) enable the consumer to decide whether to bring the subscription contract to an end before incur that liability ( and to take the necessary step to do so ) . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 95 . amendment 97 , page 167 , line 18 , leave out from " apply , " to end of line 24 and insert " in addition to give a reminder notice in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) , an additional reminder notice must be give — ( a ) prior to the notice give in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) , and ( b ) at a time which be reasonable for the purpose of provide additional notification to the consumer that they will soon become liable for the renewal payment to which the notice relate . " this amendment revise the requirement as to when the additional reminder notice must be give in advance of the renewal payment to which it relate ( in case where an additional notice be require ) . it require the trader to give the additional notice prior to give the notice that be due in every case and at a time which be reasonable for provide additional notification to the consumer of the upcoming renewal payment . amendment 98 , page 167 , line 33 , leave out subsection ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendments 95 and 97 . clause 255 - term imply into contract Amendment make : 99 , page 169 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( can ) the duty set out in section 252 ( 3A ) to specify in key pre - contract information a reasonable period for the giving of a reminder notice under section 252 ( 3 ) ( time for the giving of reminder notice ) ; " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment make it an imply term of every subscription contract that the trader will specify in key pre - contract information a reasonable period for give a reminder notice . clause 256 - right to cancel for breach of imply term Amendment make : 100 , page 169 , line 36 , after " ( c ) " insert " , ( can ) " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment enable a consumer to cancel a subscription contract where a trader fail to specify in key pre - contract information a reasonable period for the giving of a reminder notice . clause 263 - Offences by officer of a body corporate etc Amendment make : 101 , page 175 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) if the affair of a body corporate be manage by its member , subsection ( 1 ) apply in relation to the act and default of a member in connection with the member ' s function of management as if the member be an officer of the body corporate . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment provide for which member of a limited liability partnership may be guilty of the offence of fail to give information about cool - off period under clause 261 , by virtue of clause 263 , if the limited liability partnership be guilty of that offence . clause 265 - information and notice : timing and burden of proof Amendment make : 102 , page 177 , line 9 , at end insert " in accordance with this chapter " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this be a drafting amendment to clarify that it be for the consumer to prove that they have bring to an end , or cancel , a subscription contract in accordance with the provision of the chapter . clause 272 - other consequential amendment Amendment make : 103 , page 180 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in EA 2002 — ( a ) in Schedule 14 ( provision about disclosure of information ) at the appropriate place insert — " chapter 2 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 . " ; ( b ) in Schedule 15 ( enactment confer function ) at the appropriate pace insert — " chapter 2 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 . " " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment make the same provision in relation to chapter 2 of Part 4 as Amendment 88 make in relation to chapter 1 . clause 273 - Interpretation Amendments make : 104 , page 180 , line 33 , before " profession " insert " trade , craft or " this amendment ensure that trade and craft will fall within the definition of " business " for the purpose of this chapter whether or not they be carry on for gain or reward . this ensure consistency with the definition of " business " in Part 3 and chapter 1 of Part 4 . amendment 105 , page 180 , line 34 , leave out " a trade , craft or " and insert " any other " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 104 . clause 274 - index of define expression Amendment make : 107 , page 182 , line 9 , leave out " section 273 ( 1 ) " and insert " section 312 " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment correct a cross - reference error . clause 282 - exercise of function relate to this Chapter Amendment make : 109 , page 187 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) in EA 2002 — ( a ) in Schedule 14 ( provision about disclosure of information ) at the appropriate place insert — " chapter 3 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 . " ; ( b ) in Schedule 15 ( enactment confer function ) at the appropriate pace insert — " chapter 3 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 . " " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment make the same provision in relation to chapter 3 of Part 4 as Amendment 88 make in relation to chapter 1 . clause 283 - Interpretation Amendments make : 110 , page 187 , line 22 , leave out from " reward " to end of line 24 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment would omit some superfluous word from the definition of " business " , for great consistency with the other definition of " business " in the Bill . clause 288 - exempt ADR provider Amendments make : 112 , page 192 , line 33 , at end insert " or 2 " . this amendment and Amendment 113 secure that the power in subsection ( 2 ) of clause 288 can be use to amend Part 2 of schedule 22 , as contemplate by subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) . 113 , clause 288 , page 192 , line 34 , at end insert " or 2 " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 112 . clause 289 - Applications for accreditation etc amendment make : 114 , page 193 , line 25 , at end insert " , and ( b ) pay to the Secretary of State the appropriate application fee ( if any ) prescribe by regulation under section ( ADR fee regulation ) . " this amendment ( with NC13 ) secure that an applicant for accreditation must pay the appropriate application fee ( if any ) set by regulation make by the Secretary of State . amendment 115 , page 193 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) an accredited ADR provider may apply to the Secretary of State for their accreditation to be vary by the addition , variation or removal of — ( a ) any limitation affect the description of ADR or special ADR arrangement ( as the case may be ) cover by the accreditation , or ( b ) any condition on the accreditation . ( 3b ) an application under subsection ( 3A ) must be accompany by the appropriate application fee ( if any ) prescribe by regulation under section ( ADR fee regulation ) . " this amendment move what be clause 289 ( 10 ) to become subsection ( 3A ) . the new subsection ( 3A ) also ensure that accredit ADR provider can apply to vary their accreditation by add , as well as by remove or altering , limitation on its scope and also by add , alter or remove condition . subsection ( 3b ) be new and require applicant to pay the appropriate application fee . Amendment 116 , page 193 , line 31 , at end insert " or an application for the variation of an accreditation " . this amendment secure that the Secretary of State ' s power to determine the procedure for an application apply to application for the variation of an accreditation as well as application for accreditation . amendment 117 , page 194 , line 1 , leave out paragraph ( e ) . this amendment be consequential on NC13 and Amendment 114 which provide for application fee to be set by regulation , rather than as part of the Secretary of State ' s power under clause 289 ( 4 ) to determine the procedure for application . amendment 118 , page 194 , line 4 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) . this amendment be consequential on NC13 and Amendment 114 . Amendment 119 , page 194 , line 11 , leave out subsection ( 10 ) . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 115 . clause 290 - determination of application for accreditation or extension of accreditation Amendments make : 120 , page 194 , line 15 , leave out " extension " and insert " the variation " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 115 . amendment 121 , page 195 , line 5 , leave out " extension " and insert " the variation " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 115 . amendment 122 , page 195 , line 10 , leave out " extend " and insert " vary " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 115 . amendment 123 , page 195 , line 16 , leave out " extended " and insert " to be vary by add , vary or remove a limitation " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 115 and will limit the operation of clause 290 ( 9 ) to case where an accreditation be vary by add , vary or remove a limitation on its scope . amendment 124 , page 195 , line 20 , leave out subsection ( 10 ) to ( 12 ) and insert — " ( 10 ) the Secretary of State may only vary an accreditation if satisfy that the accreditation criterion will be meet by or in relation to the applicant after the accreditation be varied . ( 11 ) a variation of an accreditation be not time limit unless the Secretary of State determine that the variation be to have effect only for a limited period and the notice of the decision on the application for variation — ( a ) state that the variation be time limited ( unless make permanent follow a subsequent application by the ADR provider ) , ( b ) specifie the period for which the variation have effect , and ( c ) make provision as to the term of the accreditation in the event that the variation lapse at the end of that period . ( 12 ) the notice of a decision to vary an accreditation must specify the day on which the variation take effect . " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 115 and ensure that subsection ( 10 ) to ( 12 ) apply to all kind of variation cover by clause 289 ( 3A ) . Amendment 125 , page 195 , line 39 , leave out " extended " and insert " varied " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 115 . clause 291 - Revocation or suspension of accreditation etc amendment make : 126 , page 196 , line 22 , leave out " alter " and insert " vary " . this amendment change the word " alter " for consistency with other provision which use " vary " in the context of change the term of an accreditation . amendment 127 , page 196 , line 23 , after " limit " insert " , or far limit " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment would make clear that the Secretary of State ' s power under clause 291 ( 4 ) include both add limitation to the scope of a previously unlimited accreditation and far limit an accreditation that be already limited . clause 292 - fee payable by accredited ADR provider Amendments make : 128 , page 197 , leave out line 21 and insert " as may be prescribe , the appropriate prescribed fee ( if any ) . " the amendment ( with NC13 and Amendment 129 ) secure that the fee payable at interval by accredited ADR provider be prescribe by regulation make by the Secretary of State , rather than simply be determine by the Secretary of State from time to time . amendment 129 , page 197 , line 22 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) " prescribe " mean prescribe by regulation under section ( ADR fee regulation ) . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) the amendment define the word " prescribed " ( in clause 292 ( 1 ) as amend by Amendment 128 and delete provision that be redundant if fee be to be set by regulation . clause 297 - disclosure of ADR information by the Secretary of State Amendment make : 130 , page 201 , leave out paragraph ( d ) . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) the amendment omit unnecessary word in clause 297 ( 3 ) . amendment 175 secure that Part 9 of the Enterprise Act 2002 apply to chapter 4 ( ADR ) of Part 4 of the Bill . part 9 provide an information gateway for disclosure relate to criminal investigation and prosecution that make clause 297 ( 3 ) ( d ) redundant . clause 299 - power to provide for other person to have accreditation function etc Amendment make : 131 , page 202 , line 32 , leave out " extension " and insert " variation " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) the amendment be consequential on Amendment 115 . clause 303 - provision of investigative assistance to overseas regulator Amendments make : 132 , page 205 , line 19 , leave out sub - paragraph ( ii ) . this amendment , and Amendment 141 , replace the current prohibition on a regulator provide investigative assistance to an overseas regulator under chapter 1 of Part 5 of the Bill in relation to the investigation or prosecution of crime with a provision that such assistance can only be provide under or in accordance with a " qualify cooperation arrangement " ( define by Amendment 135 ) . amendment 133 , page 205 , line 23 , at begin insert " where the request be make otherwise than under or in accordance with a qualifying cooperation arrangement , " . this amendment provide that the Secretary of State be only require to authorise the provision of investigative assistance under chapter 1 of Part 5 of the Bill where the request for such assistance be make otherwise than under or in accordance with a " qualify cooperation arrangement " ( define by Amendment 135 ) . amendment 134 , page 206 , line 7 , at end insert — " Part 6 of EA 2002 ( cartel offence ) : the CMA exercise its power under section 193 and 194 of EA 2002 as if , by assist o ' s carry out of function which correspond or be similar to the function of the CMA under Part 6 of that Act , the CMA be carry out an investigation under section 192 of that Act " . this amendment allow the CMA to provide investigative assistance to an overseas regulator by exercise its power under section 193 and 194 of the Enterprise Act 2002 where the overseas regulator have function which correspond or be similar to the function of the CMA under Part 6 of the Enterprise Act 2002 ( the cartel offence ) . amendment 135 , page 207 , line 9 , at end insert — " " cooperation arrangement " mean an arrangement or agreement relate in whole or in part to cooperation in matter relate to the subject matter of a relevant enactment ; " qualify cooperation arrangement " mean any cooperation arrangement — ( a ) to which the United Kingdom and the country or territory of O be party , and ( b ) which provide for the provision of mutual assistance as between the United Kingdom and that country or territory , or as between r and person or body in that country or territory , in relation to matter relate to — ( i ) function of r under a relevant enactment , or ( ii ) function of o which correspond or be similar to those function . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment define " cooperation arrangement " and " qualify cooperation arrangement " for the purpose of chapter 1 of Part 5 of the Bill . clause 305 - the appropriateness of provide investigative assistance Amendments make : 136 , page 207 , line 29 , leave out from " be party to " to end of line 31 and insert " a cooperation arrangement ; " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 135 . amendment 137 , page 207 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) r must consider that it would not be appropriate to assist o where any of subsection ( 4 ) , ( 4A ) , ( 4b ) or ( 5 ) apply . " in consequence of Amendment 141 ( which insert the subsection ( 4A ) refer to in this amendment ) and Amendment 142 ( which insert the subsection ( 4b ) refer to in this amendment ) , this amendment insert a new subsection into clause 305 to improve the clarity of that clause . Amendment 138 , page 207 , leave out line 37 and 38 and insert — " ( 4 ) this subsection apply where r consider that — " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 137 . amendment 139 , page 207 , line 40 , after " correspond " insert " or substantially similar " . this amendment bring the wording of clause 305 ( 4 ) ( a ) into line with that of new section 243C ( 5 ) of the Enterprise Act 2002 , be insert by clause 310 ( 2 ) of the Bill . amendment 140 , page 208 , line 3 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment omit clause 305 ( 4 ) ( b ) , which be be replace by the provision make by Amendment 142 . amendment 141 , page 208 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) this subsection apply where — ( a ) the matter to which the request relate concern the investigation of crime or the bringing of criminal proceeding , and ( b ) the request be make otherwise than under or in accordance with a qualifying cooperation arrangement . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 132 . amendment 142 , page 208 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 4b ) this subsection apply where r would not be able to disclose , under Part 9 of EA 2002 ( information ) , to o any information obtain by r in the course of assist o . " this amendment replace clause 305 ( 4 ) ( b ) to provide that a regulator may not provide an overseas regulator with assistance where it would not ( as oppose to where it consider it would not ) be able to disclose information to the overseas regulator under Part 9 of the Enterprise Act 2002 . see also Amendment 140 . amendment 143 , page 208 , leave out line 6 and insert — " ( 5 ) this subsection apply where — " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 137 . clause 306 - authorisation of the provision of investigative assistance Amendments make : 144 , page 208 , line 35 , leave out " a convention or treaty " and insert " an arrangement or agreement ( other than a qualifying cooperation arrangement ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 133 . amendment 145 , page 208 , line 37 , leave out " convention or treaty " and insert " arrangement or agreement " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 144 . clause 307 - Notifications in respect of request for investigative assistance Amendment make : 146 , page 209 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) but subsection ( 1 ) do not apply where o ' s request be make under or in accordance with a qualifying cooperation arrangement . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment remove the requirement for a regulator to notify the Secretary of State that it consider it would be appropriate to assist an overseas regulator , where the request from the overseas regulator be make under or in accordance with a qualifying cooperation arrangement . clause 314 - power to make consequential provision Amendments make : 150 , page 220 , line 37 , leave out " or under primary legislation " and insert " an enactment " . this amendment be a drafting clarification to ensure that the power to make consequential amendment under clause 314 extend to assimilate direct legislation . Amendment 151 , page 221 , leave out paragraph ( e ) . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment remove retain direct principal EU legislation from the definition of " primary legislation " for the purpose of clause 314 , with the result that the negative procedure will apply under subsection ( 4 ) of that clause to consequential amendment of assimilate direct principal legislation ( as retain direct principal EU legislation will become know as under section 5 of the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 ) . clause 317 - Commencement Amendments make : 152 , line 35 , leave out " subsection ( 2 ) " and insert " subsection ( 2 ) and ( 2A ) " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 154 . amendment 153 , page 222 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( za ) section ( Use of damage - base agreement in opt - out collective proceeding ) ; " this amendment provide that the new clause insert by NC8 come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 154 , page 222 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) section ( merger of energy network enterprise ) ( and Schedule ( merger of energy network enterprise ) ) come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment provide for the new clause be insert by NC9 and the new Schedule be insert by NS1 to come into force two month after the Bill be pass . new Schedule 1 - merger of energy network enterprise " merger of energy network enterprise 1 part 3 of EA 2002 ( merger ) be amend as follow . 2 ( 1 ) section 22 ( duty to make reference in relation to complete merger ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( c ) omit " or 68b or 68c " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) omit " , 68b or 68C " . 3 in section 33 ( 3 ) ( circumstance in which reference in relation to anticipate merger may not be make ) , in paragraph ( c ) omit " or 68b or 68c " . 4 in section 68b ( further duty to make reference in relation to complete merger ) , for subsection ( 3 ) substitute — " ( 3 ) the CMA may not make a reference under this section — ( a ) in any circumstance mention in section 22 ( 3 ) ( za ) to ( b ) or ( d ) , or ( b ) if the relevant merger situation concern be be , or have be , deal with in connection with a reference make under section 68c . " 5 in section 68c ( further duty to make reference in relation to anticipate merger ) , for subsection ( 3 ) substitute — " ( 3 ) the CMA may not make a reference under this section — ( a ) in any circumstance mention in section 33 ( 3 ) ( za ) to ( b ) or ( d ) , or ( b ) if the arrangement concern be be , or have be , deal with in connection with a reference under section 68b . " 6 ( 1 ) in section 72 ( initial enforcement order : complete or anticipate merger ) , subsection ( 6 ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for the word before paragraph ( a ) substitute " so far as make in relation to a reference under section 22 , 33 , 68b or 68c , an order under this section which have not previously cease to be in force and which have not be adopt under paragraph 2 of Schedule 7 cease to be in force in relation to the reference concern — " . ( 3 ) in paragraph ( a ) , in the word before sub - paragraph ( i ) omit " under section 22 , 33 , 68b or 68C " . 7 ( 1 ) section 73 ( undertaking in lieu of reference under section 22 , 33 , 68b or 68c ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for subsection ( 3b ) substitute — " ( 3b ) the CMA may , instead of make such a reference and for the purpose of remedy , mitigate or prevent — ( a ) the prejudice to the ability of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority describe in section 68b ( 1 ) or 68c ( 1 ) , or ( b ) any adverse effect which have or may have result from it or may be expect to result from it , accept from such of the party concern as it consider appropriate undertaking to take such action as it consider appropriate . " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 3c ) , after " to the prejudice " insert " and any adverse effect result from it " . 8 in section 73a ( time - limit for consideration of undertaking ) , in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) , after " 73 ( 2 ) " insert " or ( 3b ) " . 9 ( 1 ) section 74 ( effect of undertaking under section 73 ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " , 45 , 68b or 68c " substitute " or 45 " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " section 73 " substitute " section 73 ( 2 ) " . ( 3 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) the relevant authority may not make a reference under section 45 , 68b or 68c in relation to the creation of a relevant merger situation if — ( a ) the CMA have accept an undertaking or group of undertaking under section 73 ( 3b ) , and ( b ) the relevant merger situation be the situation by reference to which the undertaking or group of undertaking be accept . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for " subsection ( 1 ) do not " substitute " subsection ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) do not " . 10 ( 1 ) section 75 ( order - make power where undertaking under section 73 not fulfil etc ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , in paragraph ( a ) , for " section 73 " substitute " section 73 ( 2 ) or ( 3b ) " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after " 73 ( 2 ) " insert " or ( 3b ) ( as the case may be ) " . ( 4 ) for subsection ( 3 ) substitute — " ( 3A ) in proceed under subsection ( 2 ) for the purpose mention in section 73 ( 2 ) or ( 3b ) , the CMA must , in particular , have regard to the need to achieve as comprehensive a solution as be reasonable and practicable to — ( a ) in relation to the purpose mention in section 73 ( 2 ) , the substantial lessening of competition mention in that subsection and any adverse effect result from it ; . ( b ) in relation to the purpose mention in section 73 ( 3b ) , the prejudice mention in that subsection and any adverse effect result from it . ( 3b ) in proceed under subsection ( 2 ) for the purpose mention in section 73 ( 2 ) or ( 3b ) , the CMA may , in particular , have regard to the effect of any action on any relevant customer benefit in relation to the creation of the relevant merger situation concern . " 11 ( 1 ) section 79 ( section 77 and 78 : further interpretative provision ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for paragraph ( c ) to ( e ) substitute — " ( c ) the report of the cma under that section contain the decision that — ( i ) in relation to a reference under section 22 or 33 , there be not an anti - competitive outcome , or ( ii ) in relation to a reference under section 68b or 68c , there be not a prejudicial outcome ; ( d ) the report of the cma under that section contain the decision that — ( i ) in relation to a reference under section 22 or 33 , there be an anti - competitive outcome , or ( ii ) in relation to a reference under section 68b or 68c , there be a prejudicial outcome , and the CMA have decide under section 41 ( 2 ) neither to accept an undertaking under section 82 nor to make an order under section 84 ; ( e ) the report of the cma under that section contain the decision that — ( i ) in relation to a reference under section 22 or 33 , there be an anti - competitive outcome , or ( ii ) in relation to a reference under section 68b or 68c , there be a prejudicial outcome , and the CMA have decide under section 41 ( 2 ) to accept an undertaking under section 82 or to make an order under section 84 . " ( 3 ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5a ) reference in subsection ( 1 ) to a prejudicial outcome be to a prejudicial outcome within the meaning of section 35 or 36 as those section have effect by virtue of paragraph 6 and 7 of schedule 5a . " 12 ( 1 ) schedule 5a ( energy network merger affect comparative regulation : modification of chapter 1 of Part 3 ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after paragraph 1 insert — " mean of " the decision - make authority " 1A Section 22 ( 7 ) ( a ) ( mean of " the decision - make authority " ) have effect as if after " section 33 " there be insert " , 68b or 68c " . " ( 3 ) in paragraph 5 ( time limit for decision about reference ) — ( a ) for paragraph ( b ) substitute — " ( b ) the reference to section 22 ( 3 ) be to section 68b ( 3 ) ; " ; ( b ) for paragraph ( d ) substitute — " ( d ) the reference to section 33 ( 3 ) be to section 68c ( 3 ) . " 13 ( 1 ) schedule 16 to the Energy Act 2023 ( merger of complete energy network enterprise ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) omit paragraph 5 and 6 ( amendment to section 22 and 33 of EA 2002 ) . ( 3 ) omit paragraph 14 ( 2 ) ( amendment to section 74 ( 1 ) of EA 2002 ) . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) see the explanatory statement for NC9 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . schedule 4 - relevant and special merger situation Amendment make : 155 , page 232 , line 14 , at end insert — " 5a " ( 1 ) schedule 5a ( energy network merger affect comparative regulation : modification of chapter 1 of Part 3 ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 2 ( modification of section 23 ) , in paragraph ( a ) , in the substitute text , for " £ 70 million " substitute " £ 100 million " . ( 3 ) in paragraph 3 ( modification of section 28 ) , for paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) substitute — " ( b ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( i ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " the CMA shall " there be substitute " the CMA and the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority must each " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " the sum for the time be mention in section 23 ( 1 ) ( b ) , ( 2 ) ( c ) and ( 4e ) " there be substitute " the sum for the time be mention in section 23 ( 1 ) ( b ) " ; ( iii ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " sum be " there be substitute " sum be " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 6 ) — ( i ) for " section 23 ( 1 ) ( b ) , ( 2 ) ( c ) and ( 4e ) " there be substitute " paragraph 2 ( a ) of Schedule 5a " ; ( ii ) for " sum " there be substitute " sum " . " " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment amend the modification to chapter 1 of Part 3 of the Enterprise Act 2002 make by schedule 5a to that Act ( recently insert by Schedule 16 to the Energy Act 2023 ) to reflect amendment be make to that chapter by Schedule 4 to the Bill and to correct the modification make by paragraph 3 ( c ) of schedule 5a to section 28 ( 6 ) of the Enterprise Act 2002 . schedule 5 - merger : fast - track reference under section 22 and 33 of ea 2002 Amendment make : 156 , page 236 , line 2 , at end insert — " 8a " ( 1 ) in chapter 3 of Part 3 of EA 2002 ( merger : other special case ) , schedule 5a ( energy network merger affect comparative regulation : modification of chapter 1 of Part 3 ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 1 ( general modification ) , in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , for the word after " include " substitute " — ( a ) a reference make under a subsection of that section ; ( b ) a reference treat as make under that section . " ( 3 ) for paragraph 5 ( time limit for decision about reference ) substitute — " 5 section 34za ( time - limit for decision about reference ) have effect as if — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) — ( i ) the reference to section 22 ( 2 ) be to section 68b ( 2 ) ; ( ii ) the reference to section 22 ( 3 ) be to section 68b ( 3 ) ; ( iii ) the reference to section 33 ( 2 ) be to section 68c ( 2 ) ; ( iv ) the reference to section 33 ( 3 ) be to section 68c ( 3 ) ; ( b ) section ( 1A ) be omit . 5A Chapter 1 have effect as if section 34zd to 34zf ( fast - track reference request ) be omit . " ( 4 ) after paragraph 7 insert — " time - limit for investigation and report 7a Section 39 ( time - limit for investigation and report ) have effect as if subsection ( 3A ) be omit . " " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment secure that fast - track reference under Part 3 of the Enterprise Act 2002 ( as amend by Schedule 5 to the Bill ) be not available in respect of energy network merger . schedule 8 - civil penalty etc in connection with competition investigation Amendment make : 157 , page 260 , line 30 , leave out " intentionally " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment correct a drafting error and bring the amendment be make to section 174a of the Enterprise Act 2002 by paragraph 26 ( 3 ) of Schedule 8 into line with the equivalent amendment be make to section 110 of that Act at paragraph 15 ( 3 ) of that schedule . schedule 9 - civil penalty etc in connection with breach of remedy Amendments make : 158 , page 265 , leave out line 12 to 19 and insert — " ( 1 ) the CMA may , in accordance with section 35b , impose a penalty on a person — ( a ) from whom the CMA have accept commitment under section 31a ( and who have not be release from those commitment ) , or ( b ) to whom the CMA have give a direction under section 32 , 33 or 35 , where the CMA consider that the person have , without reasonable excuse , fail to adhere to the commitment or comply with the direction . " this amendment improve the clarity of this provision and make it clear that the CMA can only impose a penalty on an individual under section 35b of the Competition Act 1998 ( insert by paragraph 6 of Schedule 9 to the Bill ) for fail to comply with a direction in case where the direction be give to the person . amendment 159 , page 268 , leave out line 24 to 27 and insert — " ( 1 ) the appropriate authority may , in accordance with section 94ab , impose a penalty on a person — ( a ) from whom the authority have accept an enforcement undertaking , or ( b ) to whom an enforcement order be address , where the authority consider that the person have , without reasonable excuse , fail to comply with the undertaking or order . " this amendment make it clear that a penalty can only be impose on an individual under section 94ab of the Enterprise Act 2002 ( insert by paragraph 11 of Schedule 9 to the Bill ) for fail to comply with an enforcement undertaking or enforcement order in case where the undertaking be accept from , or the order be address to , the person . amendment 160 , page 271 , leave out line 35 to 38 and insert — " ( 1 ) the relevant authority may , in accordance with section 167b , impose a penalty on a person — ( a ) from whom the authority have accept an enforcement undertaking , or ( b ) to whom an enforcement order be address , where the authority consider that the person have , without reasonable excuse , fail to comply with the undertaking or order . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment make it clear that a penalty can only be impose on an individual under section 167b of the Enterprise Act 2002 ( insert by paragraph 17 of Schedule 9 to the Bill ) for fail to comply with an enforcement undertaking or enforcement order in case where the undertaking be accept from , or the order be address to , the person . schedule 11 - Service and extra - territoriality of notice under ca 1998 and ea 2002 Amendment make : 161 , page 283 , line 13 , leave out " or 62 " and insert , " , 62 , 62b or 68c " . — ( Kevin Hollinrake this amendment provide that notice give under section 109 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of the Enterprise Act 2002 ( production of document etc ) in relation to reference under section 68b or 68c of that Act ( merger of energy network enterprise ) can be give to a person outside the United Kingdom . ) schedule 15 - investigatory power Amendment make : 162 , page 326 , line 18 , at end insert — " power to amend amount 16ha ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the follow provision of this schedule for the purpose of substitute a different monetary amount for an amount of fixed or daily penalty for the time be specify — ( a ) paragraph 16a ( 5 ) ( a ) and ( b ) ; ( b ) paragraph 16c ( 5 ) ( a ) and ( b ) . ( 2 ) before make regulation under this paragraph the Secretary of State must consult such person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 3 ) regulation under this paragraph be to be make by statutory instrument . ( 4 ) regulation under this paragraph may not be make unless a draft of the statutory instrument contain they have be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , each House of Parliament . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment confer power on the Secretary of State to amend by affirmative procedure the amount of monetary penalty that can be impose under paragraph 16a or 16c of Schedule 5 to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 ( those paragraph be insert by Schedule 15 to the Bill ) . a similar power be contain in clause 198 of the Bill . schedule 16 - Part 3 : minor and consequential amendment Amendment make : 163 , page 330 , line 24 , at end insert — " 6a in schedule 15 ( enactment confer function ) at the appropriate place insert — " chapter 3 and 4 of Part 3 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 . " " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment ensure that information to which section 237 of the Enterprise Act 2002 apply ( which impose a general restriction on disclosure of certain kind of information unless permit under Part 9 of that Act ) can be disclose to an enforcer for the purpose of enable that enforcer to carry out function under chapter 3 or 4 of Part 3 of the Bill . schedule 19 - exclude contract Amendments make : 164 , page 345 , line 40 , omit " or Wales " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 165 . amendment 165 , page 346 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( aa ) in relation to a prescription or direction give , or a medicinal product administer , in Wales , have the meaning give by regulation 2 of the National Health Service ( Pharmaceutical Services ) ( Wales ) Regulations 2020 ( s . I 2020 / 1073 ( W . 241 ) ; " this amendment provide a separate definition for Wales of a " prescriber " for the purpose of exclude from the subscription contract regime a contract for the supply of good , service or digital content where that supply be make under , or in connection with , direction give by a prescriber . amendment 166 , page 346 , line 7 , at end insert " but as if that definition include " a dentist " " . this amendment add dentist to the definition of " prescriber " for the purpose of exclude from the subscription contract regime a contract which be give under , or in connection with , a prescription or direction give by a prescriber in Scotland . amendment 167 , page 346 , line 40 , omit " and Wales " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 168 . amendment 168 , page 346 , line 45 , at end insert — " ( aa ) in relation to arrangement which be part of the health service in Wales — ( i ) a relevant list for the purpose of the National Health Service ( Pharmaceutical Services ) ( Wales ) Regulations 2020 ( s . I 2020 / 1073 ( W . 241 ) ; ( ii ) a list maintain under those Regulations ; " this amendment provide a separate definition for Wales of a " relevant list " for the purpose of exclude from the subscription contract regime a contract where the trader be a health care professional or a person on a relevant list . amendment 169 , page 347 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( ii ) the provisional pharmaceutical list prepare under regulation 8 of those Regulations ; ( iii ) the primary medical service performer list prepare under regulation 4 of the National Health Service ( Primary Medical Services List ) ( Scotland ) Regulations 2004 ( s . s . I . 2004 / 114 ) ; ( iv ) the dental list prepare under regulation 4 of the National Health Service ( General Dental Services ) ( Scotland ) Regulations ( S . s . I 2010 / 208 ) ; " this amendment add to the definition of a " relevant list " in Scotland for the purpose of exclude from the subscription contract regime a contract where the trader be a health care professional or a person on a relevant list . the exist text after " Scotland " will become sub - paragraph ( i ) . amendment 170 , page 350 , line 30 , at end insert — " gambling contract 13 ( 1 ) in England and Wales and Scotland , a contract for — ( a ) gambling , within the meaning of the Gambling Act 2005 ; ( b ) participate in the National Lottery , within the meaning of the National Lottery etc . Act 1993 . ( 2 ) in Northern Ireland , a contract for bet , game or participate in a lawful lottery within the meaning of the Betting , Gaming , Lotteries and Amusements ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1985 ( s . I . 1985 / 1204 ( N . I . 11 ) ) . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment exclude contract for gambling ( that be regulate by other legislation ) from the new regime for subscription contract in chapter 2 of Part 4 of the Bill . schedule 20 - Pre - contract information and reminder notice Amendment make : 171 , page 351 , line 31 , at end insert — " 9A the period within which reminder notice in relation to the contract will be give in accordance with section 252 ( 3 ) . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 95 . schedule 21 - exclude arrangement Amendments make : 172 , page 357 , line 2 , at end insert — " contract regulate by OFCOM 2A ( 1 ) a contract for the supply of good , service or digital content by a person who be bind , in relation to that supply , by a general condition set by OFCOM under section 45 of the Communications Act 2003 . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , " OFCOM " mean the Office of Communications . " this amendment would add contract regulate by OFCOM to the list of exclude arrangement in Schedule 21 . this would mean that certain contract , include pre - pay pay - as - you - go mobile phone contract , would not be subject to the requirement in chapter 3 of Part 4 on consumer saving scheme . amendment 173 , page 357 , line 2 , at end insert — " contract for prepaid passenger transport service 2b a contract for prepaid passenger transport service . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) this amendment would add contract for prepaid passenger transport service to the list of exclude arrangement in Schedule 21 . this would mean that those type of contract would not be subject to the requirement in chapter 3 of Part 4 on consumer saving scheme . schedule 23 - accreditation criterion Amendment make : 174 , page 359 , line 33 , leave out from " have " to end of line 35 and insert " appropriate knowledge and skill — ( a ) for carry out the ADR that it carry out , in relation to the dispute it deal with , or ( b ) for make the special ADR arrangement that it make . " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) the amendment clarify the third accreditation criterion , which relate to the expertise expect of an ADR provider . the provider should have the knowledge and skill that be appropriate for the activity it carry out by virtue of an accreditation or exemption . schedule 24 - chapter 4 of part 4 : consequential amendment etc Amendment make : 175 , page 361 , line 25 , at end insert — " Enterprise Act 2002 1A in EA 2002 — ( a ) in Schedule 14 ( provision about disclosure of information ) at the appropriate place insert — " chapter 4 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 . " ; ( b ) in Schedule 15 ( enactment confer function ) at the appropriate pace insert — " chapter 4 of Part 4 of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 . " " — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 88 . this amendment make the same provision in relation to chapter 4 of Part 4 as Amendment 88 make in relation to chapter 1 . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . the UK ' s continued tech success depend on market that be fiercely competitive , and where the good company can flourish and create the innovation that spur growth . with this Bill , we will establish new , more effective tool to address the unique barrier to competition in digital market , allow the CMA to proactively drive more dynamic market and prevent harmful practice , such as make it difficult to switch between operating system . with this Bill , we will help the UK technology industry to grow , create room for small business with great idea to flourish . this Bill will deliver tangible benefit to british consumer and british business alike . the Bill be welcome on both side of the House on Second Reading . the Select Committee Chairs from this House and the other place , as well as hon . member from a number of party , include the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) and my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) , have repeatedly speak of the Bill ' s importance . I thank they for their work and for work with we so constructively . on Report , the Government make a number of amendment to the Bill , reflect the important discussion between stakeholder and member of this House . I thank member from across the House for their contribution during the passage of the Bill . I will conclude by thank all my predecessor who have take the Bill from consultation to this House , my official , the Clerks , and the Chairs and member of the Public Bill Committee for their line - by - line scrutiny , and for their collaborative and constructive approach . may I briefly join the Minister in thank all the member of the Public Bill Committee and the Clerks of the House ? I give personal thank to my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) for work with I so collaboratively on get the Bill to a good place . let I also place on the record my thank to Freddie Cook , in my team , for all her work on the Bill . labour welcome this Bill , have lead the way in call for large tech company to be properly regulate to ensure competition in digital market . we be pleased to see the Bill in a good place as it go to the other place for further consideration . we have long call for measure to protect consumer , enhance innovation and promote competition in digital market to unlock growth and level the play field for small business . that could not be more important in the midst of a cost of living crisis . we have support the passage of this Bill and it be now important that these new power that be give to the cma to ensure competition in digital market be not water down as the Bill progress . we will be follow closely , as will colleague from across the House , and we look forward to the Bill finally come into action . may I , too , add my thank to the Bill Committee member and to all the member who have contribute throughout the passage of the Bill ? I also thank the Clerks for their wise guidance and assistance , and Sarah Callaghan , in the SNP ' s research office , for the diligent work she have do on this . I have say throughout that the amendment we seek to put forward be merely to fill the pothole that we see in the Bill . it do not need a special fund from the Prime Minister to fill they ; all it need be for some action to be take on greenwashe and drip pricing , and I be sure the Minister can understand the rest from what I have say . we think those issue still need addressing , but my concern be now about the impact that the Bill will or will not have on big tech and the freedom of the market our consumer operate in . the success of the Bill will be measure not in the size of the majority that the Government could have have tonight , but in the impact it have on consumer and small business in the week , month and year ahead . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Northern Ireland that the Northern Ireland ( Ministerial Appointment Functions ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 1061 ) , date 2 October 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 2 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Licences and Licensing that the Alcohol Licensing ( Coronavirus ) ( Regulatory Easements ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 ( SI , 2023 , no . 990 ) , date 11 September 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 7 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Banks and Banking that the draft Dormant Assets ( distribution of money ) ( England ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 11 September , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Committees Energy Security and Net Zero Ordered , that Hilary Benn be discharge from the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee and Mick Whitley be add . — ( Mr Marcus Jones . ) Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Select Committee ) order , that Sir Mike Penning , Angela Richardson , Katherine Fletcher , Ben Bradshaw and Keir Mather be add to the Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Select Committee ) . — ( Mr Marcus Jones . ) International Development Ordered , that Navendu Mishra to be discharge from the International Development Committee and Dr Rosena Allin - Khan be add . — ( Mr Marcus Jones . ) Transport Ordered , that Ruth Cadbury and Mike Amesbury be discharge from the Transport Committee and Fabian Hamilton and Mick Whitley be add . — ( Mr Marcus Jones . ) Treasury Ordered , that Rushanara Ali be discharge from the Treasury Committee and Keir Mather be add . — ( Mr Marcus Jones . ) Adjournment Resolved , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) House adjourn .