Oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — Skills and Apprenticeships : fund what step her Department be take to fund skill and apprenticeship . what step her Department be take to fund skill and apprenticeship . what step her Department be take to fund skill and apprenticeship . as I be sure everybody know , I will never get tired of fly the flag for apprenticeship and skill . this government be invest record level of funding , with an additional £ 3 . 8 billion in skill over this Parliament . that include an extra £ 1 . 6 billion for 16 - to - 19 education , and increase investment in apprenticeship to £ 2 . 7 billion by 2024 - 25 . that support our commitment to create a world - lead skill system that be employer - focused , high quality , and fit for the future . this government ' s school , college and business around the country be work hard to show young people that go to university be not the only route to success , and there be now so many study option , which the RHA , the Federation of Small Businesses , and lot of Stroud business be talk to I about all the time . what be my right hon . friend do to reform the exist apprenticeship levy to work well for small business and student ? I thank my hon . friend , and I be proud of all the work we have do on apprenticeship . we remove the limit on the number of apprentice that small business can take on , and we continue to pay 100 % of training cost for the small employer , and allow levy payer to transfer 25 % of their fund to support small and medium - sized enterprise . we spend 99 . 6 % of the apprenticeship budget in 2021 - 22 , which have help to support 8 , 940 apprenticeship start in my hon . friend ' s constituency since 2010 . to continue that progress and ensure that everyone know what apprenticeship opportunity be available , we be work with UCAS so that for the first time ever , young people will be able to use ucas to search and apply for apprenticeship alongside degree , make it easy for young people to find the right opportunity for they . I thank the Secretary of State for visit BAE Systems recently in Lancashire . Accrington and Rossendale College in my Hyndburn and Haslingden constituency have be successfully roll out the t - level programme , but to ensure that young people in my constituency have the skill they need in area such as technology and engineering , further capital investment be need to ensure that it can continue to provide state - of - the - art facility . will my right hon . friend confirm whether there will be further wave of the t - level capital fund ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for join I on that visit , which I think be eye - opening for both of we . the Nelson & Colne College group , which include Accrington and Rossendale College in my hon . friend ' s constituency , have benefit from capital investment of more than £ 6 million since 2010 , include funding to improve the condition of its estate and support the delivery of t - level and technical education . most recently , it benefit from further investment as one of our 108 t - level capital project , work towards deliver engineering and manufacturing T - level . we will continue to support the roll - out of t - level . the Secretary of State will know that level up be about not geography but opportunity , and what well opportunity can we give our young people than a first - class education ? Southampton have put in a bid for a university technical college . will my right hon . friend confirm that she have see our bid and will look favourably on it , and will she update the House on when we be likely to hear whether we have be successful ? I thank my hon . friend for his continuous campaigning on this subject . I do not know how many meeting we have have , but I see his passion to get a utc in Southampton . I recently meet Becky Smith , one of the fantastic former student of UTC Portsmouth , who be now a degree apprentice study mechanical engineering at the University of Chichester in my constituency . she be full of praise for her time at UTC Portsmouth . we be currently consider the application we have receive . I have see they all , and I have be through they in great detail in the late free school wave , include Portsmouth ' s bid for a new utc in Southampton . we hope to announce the successful application very soon . hospitality and tourism be an industry worth £ 3 . 5 billion a year to Cumbria , and it be our big employer . apprenticeship be an important way into a career within that sector . the problem be that t - level be a useful stepping stone into apprenticeship , yet the Government have again kick into the long grass the t - level on catering , have already take out the hospitality element of that . will the Secretary of State meet I and representative from Cumbria Tourism , so we can talk about how she can change that policy , and so that more young people can enter that important profession ? I be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . as he will know , I always have a laser - like focus on quality , and if the quality be not good enough then I will not release the apprenticeship , the apprenticeship standard or the t - level . too often we have have low - quality qualification in this country , and it be important that we work with a vast array of business to ensure that we get the quality system that they demand and that will be good for all our young people . may I beg the Minister to pay attention to the fact that good apprenticeship and good training in any town and city must come from a blend of good university — I think most of our university be good — with local further education college ? will she take a leaf out of Tony Blair ' s book , when he say in a recent important speech that what we need be more high - class university and more polytechnic make up from the new former FE college ? as usual , we be ahead of the Opposition . we have already invest in 21 institute of technology , which be where a group of college and university work with employer in the area . they be a great addition to the landscape , along with all the other technical qualification and skill training that we have introduce since 2010 . I welcome the funding make available to the space system engineering degree apprenticeship and the opportunity that will provide young people in the UK ' s grow space industry . what plan do minister have to fund similar apprenticeship in other emerge sector ? it be a great pleasure to go to the space park in Leicester to launch the space system engineering level 6 degree apprenticeship , on top of the level 4 space engineering apprenticeship , which I launch previously . there be many different route into the space industry , which be important and something that we be good at in the UK . any employer or employer group wish to develop an apprenticeship standard could work with the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education . we have work with more than 5 , 000 employer in the past few year , and we have build more than 670 apprenticeship standard , none of which exist before we start the programme in 2012 . I call the shadow Minister . new research from the House of Commons Library have show that the amount of the apprenticeship levy pay by employer that have be allocate to the apprenticeship budget have fall from 89 % in 2017 to just 77 % in the most recent year . the truthful answer to the question from the hon . member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) be that the Secretary of State be do nothing to reform the apprenticeship levy , as she believe it be work perfectly . can the Minister confirm that any employer that , like the hon . member for Stroud , want great flexibility in the levy should vote labour in the next general election ? there be nothing that would make I give such drastic advice . the truth about the apprenticeship levy be that 99 . 6 % of it will be spend this year . we can look in the rear view mirror , and there be some report go back over time that show some underspend in the levy , but they be back over time . we be now spend 99 . 6 % of the levy . perhaps what the hon . Gentleman have not appreciate be that some of the funding go to the devolved government . [ Official Report , 20 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 15mc . ] if we examine the apprenticeship system in Wales and Scotland , it be not a patch on what we have introduce in England . Persistent Absence from School what step she be take to support severely absent pupil with their attendance . what step she be take to tackle persistent absence in secondary school . school attendance be important for not just a child ' s education but their wellbeing and life chance , and it be a personal priority . we have : roll out the daily attendance datum tool ; launch the attendance action alliance group of system leader , which include representative from health , policing and social care ; expand the attendance hub support ; and , deploy expert advice to work with local authority . Termly persistent absence fall by a fifth from summer last year to spring this year , with 350 , 000 few persistently absent pupil , but we know we still have more to do , and it be a top priority for I . do the Secretary of State agree that shut school during covid lockdown be a disaster for child and their mental health and have lead to an explosion in severely absent rate ? will she make sure that can not happen again by classify all education setting , include school , college and university , as essential infrastructure , to ensure they remain open during national emergency ? school be not shut during lockdown . many of our fantastic teacher be still teach key cohort , support our NHS and the most vulnerable , such as those with special educational need , but I fully share my right hon . friend ' s concern about the impact that the pandemic have have on attainment , attendance and mental health . she know we be work hard to recover , make almost £ 5 billion available for recovery . I can assure she that we will always seek to minimise the disruption to education in emergency situation . we all have a lot to learn from the experience during the pandemic , include the impact on child of all the decision that we take , which be lead by medical advice . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . it be good to hear the Secretary of State prioritise get child into school . alongside her welcome fund pay offer , which will hopefully see an end to disruptive strike , a real drive to reduce persistent absence and increase attendance would be welcome . a long - stand recommendation of the Education Committee be a statutory register of child not in school , which she be well aware of and have tell we be a priority . may I therefore urge she to rapidly adopt the private Member ' s Bill of my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) so that we can get on with deliver on that priority ? I thank my hon . friend for his Committee ' s work on this issue , which really be important . we have a world - class education system , but we need child in school to be able to take advantage of that . as he know , my Department remain committed to legislate for statutory local authority register of child not in school and will do so at the next suitable legislative opportunity when parliamentary time allow . I will work closely with my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) on how we can well introduce that . I thank the Secretary of State very much for her response . it be obvious that she be committed to make thing well . in the light of the covid home - school period during which parent may have forget the importance of socialisation as well as academic education , many may need reminding of the legal obligation to educate child . have the Department consider tidy up the intervention period to allow early intervention and discussion with parent where possible before any action be take ? we be very much take a supportive approach . we know that there be complex reason why some child be miss school — some have lose their confidence and be anxious about school and how far they be behind — so we be take a focused approach . we have lead in local authority work closely with school , and we be measure the impact of all the thing we be do , which include attendance hub , as well as look to support parent to get their child back into school , where we know their outcome will be so much well . Maths Attainment : Primary Schools what progress her Department have make on improve standard of attainment in mathematic in primary school . ofsted ' s report on school math , publish last week , state : " in the last few year , a resounding , positive shift in mathematic education have take place in primary school . " in the 2019 TIMSS international survey of math attainment for year 5 pupil , England achieve its high ever score and rise from 10th out of 49 country in 2015 to eighth out of 58 country . it be clearly good news that 73 % of young people be achieve or exceed the expect grade at the standard assessment test . measure have be take to catch up after covid , which be really good news , but it be important that we lie the foundation in primary school so that young people love mathematic and can continue to work on it until they be 18 . what measure be my right hon . friend take to ensure that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . in addition to expand the successful math hub programme to deliver teaching for mastery to 75 % of primary school by 2025 , we be increase delivery of the master number programme for reception to year 2 , which help student achieve fluency with number bond , to 8 , 000 school by 2024 . we will also extend the programme into year 4 and 5 to bolster fluency in time table . Childcare what step she be take to help ensure the availability of high - quality childcare . what step her Department be take to increase the number of childcare place . at the spring statement , we announce the single large investment in childcare in England ever . by 2027 , the Government will be spend in excess of £ 8 billion , double the amount that we do now and help work family with their childcare cost . good - quality childcare be essential to a child ' s early development , to parent and to the economy . the owner of the Best Friends Day Nursery and the Spinney Day Nursery in Chester have tell I of the real struggle face by so many nursery across the country , despite the Government ' s late funding announcement . many have be force to close , include five nursery in the Hoole area alone in five year . what more will the Government do to alleviate the situation set out by my constituent ? as I have mention , we be put the single large ever investment into childcare over the next few year , to provide funding to setting such as the one she mention . we be also look at thing such as workforce , which we know can be a challenge , make sure that we remove barrier to additional route to entry . South West Hertfordshire be home to lot of young couple , particularly those who have move out of London to start their family . could the Minister tell the House how her Department be support new parent as they return to work ? that be a huge priority for this Government . the funding that we be set out will provide parent with support worth , on average , £ 6 , 500 a year from maternity leave right up to primary school . we be do additional work to support thing such as wraparound care . I call the shadow Minister . across the early year sector , nursery and childminder be raise concern that the Government have no coherent plan for the expansion of the early year workforce to meet the requirement of an expand offer . the only idea on the table so far be the relaxation of ratio and a reduction in the proportion of level 2 qualified staff — plan that the Sutton Trust have find could lead to bad outcome for child . why be this government so uninterested in the quality of childcare and the outcome that high - quality early year education deliver for child ? the Government care about education standard . that be see across every single result across the board , whether read or math result . it be this Government who care about education standard . over 90 % of our early year provider be rate good or outstanding . we will do everything we can to keep they that way . bully in Schools what recent step her Department have take to tackle bully in school . all child should have access to a calm , safe and supportive school environment . in addition to school behaviour policy that must include measure to prevent bullying , we have provide more than £ 3 million in funding between August 2021 and March 2024 to five anti - bully organisation support school in tackle bully . I congratulate my hon . friend for all her work tackle bully . so many constituent write to I about the problem their child be experience . how be the behaviour hub make a difference in school and tackle the bullying that be so prevalent , particularly as a result of online harm and social medium , which be all too frequent ? we be confident that the behaviour hub programme be help school to create calm , understanding and positive environment by spread good practice . the behaviour hub programme be be evaluate and impact assess . we will publish an interim report in 2024 . I would be delighted to discuss those finding with my right hon . friend . last week I introduce by ten - minute rule Bill on bullying and respect at work . it be not just child who experience bully in the school environment but teacher and other staff . will the Minister look at my Bill , which will establish a legal definition of bully at work and a route to employment tribunal to protect the people who be look after our child in our school ? I have not see the hon . Lady ' s Bill , but I would be happy to take a look and have a discussion with she . recruitment and Retention what step she be take to support the recruitment and retention of teacher in the further education sector . what recent estimate she have make of the number of teacher leave the teaching profession . our teacher do an incredible job and inspire child every day . last week , we accept the independent pay review body ' s recommendation in full , give schoolteacher their large pay award for 30 year of at least 6 . 5 % . I also announce funding for the further education sector to address key priority , include teacher recruitment and retention . to help we get more of the top talent into teaching , we be deliver on our 2019 manifesto commitment to raise the start salary for teacher to a minimum of £ 30 , 000 . that be a competitive salary that will help we to continue to build on the record number of teacher in our school in England . the further education sector be face a teaching crisis , not fully address by the pay review body . in my constituency , East Durham College have have two teacher vacancy in engineering and a computer science position unfilled for 18 month . barrier to recruitment include high workload , qualification reform , excessive assessment and a huge pay disparity compare with comparable work in industry . could the Secretary of State tell we what step she be take to ensure that further education teaching be an attractive and viable career ? I very much care about further education and ensure that it have the funding . that be why , as of last week , we be invest an additional £ 185 million in the financial year 2023 - 24 and £ 285 million in 2024 - 25 to drive forward skill delivery in further education . the Government do not set pay for the fe sector . however , I have be clear that I expect that funding , which be new funding , to go to the frontline . I hope the investment will support the fe sector to address its recruitment and retention challenge . in addition , we introduce bursary of £ 29 , 000 for STEM — science , technology , engineering and math — subject , and the Taking Teaching Further programme be work with industry and pay £ 6 , 000 to attract those from industry who want to spend their second career in FE teaching . we have see a significant increase in the number of teacher leave the profession in Durham . they be burn out and their unmanageable workload be make hard by support staff redundancy in school where there be an absence of furniture and equipment , with child even carry chair between lesson so that there be somewhere to sit . one teacher say to I , " it be like be a baker with no flour , a delivery driver without a van , an it specialist without a computer . " when will the Department provide the absolute basic for our school in Durham ? we be go even far than the basic , because we will be fund education high than we have ever fund it in our history . it will be £ 60 billion next year . but I do take workload seriously . as part of our discussion with the union , we have agree to set up a workload taskforce , which have a target to remove five hour from the school working week in addition to the five hour we have already reduce . last year , more teacher enter the profession than leave it : 47 , 954 enter the profession and 43 , 997 leave it . if we look at the average , the leaver rate have be stable since 2010 , but we be invest more in our education system than ever before . one particularly challenging area of work for teacher be special need education . there be many who want to work in that field , but in Essex our special need school be unfortunately already full to burst . that be why , today , I be launch a campaign for a new special need school in south Essex . I meet the Minister for Schools , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) in advance and he be very helpful . will the Secretary of State and the Schools Minister work with I and Essex County Council to try to get we the additional special need place in Essex that parent and special need child so desperately need ? I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . this be something we have already announce : we will invest £ 2 . 6 billion in build more special school . we be get another one in Sussex and many hon . member be get more special educational need school in their area . we would be very happy to work with he and Essex County Council to ensure the right provision in Essex for all child who have additional need . I pay tribute to all the staff and teacher at my local FE college , Basingstoke College of Technology for all the work they do to ensure that young people in my constituency be ready for work . the reform of btec be cause some uncertainty when it come to staffing for the future in the college . will my right hon . friend join I and headteacher Anthony Bravo for a meeting to discuss those concern , so that we can continue to ensure that the young people of Basingstoke be work - ready in large number ? yes , I be always happy to meet my right hon . friend and her college . I have have many meeting on this subject . we be focus on ensure that high quality T - level be introduce across the country in all college , so that young people can access they . we be also look , side by side , to see what BTEC qualification will sit alongside a - level as part of our level 3 offer . Foster Care Placements what step her Department be take to help increase the number of foster care placement . we know that we need more foster carer . that be a really important part of our plan , " Stable Homes , build on Love " , to reform the care system . we be invest £ 27 million in recruitment and retention over the next two year . we have also increase the national minimum allowance for foster parent by 12 . 4 % as part of those plan . do my hon . friend agree that foster carer can play a vital role in improve the health and wellbeing of a look - after child , and that we need to encourage more people to go into foster care by remove unnecessary bureaucratic barrier so that we can build a network of foster carer across the country to improve the life chance of child in care ? this be a big priority for I . some child end up in child ' s home when they should have end up with foster carer , so we need to recruit more . as I have say , we be make a significant investment in recruitment and retention so that we can keep some of our brilliant , experienced foster carer as well as attract more into the system . read Standards : primary - age Children what step her Department be take to improve standard of reading of primary age child . the Progress in International Reading Literacy Study be publish in May this year . England have come fourth among 43 country that test child of the same age , nine and 10 - year - old . in 2012 we introduce the phonic screening check , test six - year - old for their progress in reading and phonic . [ Official Report , 20 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 15mc . ] in that year , 58 % of pupil reach the expect standard ; by 2019 , just before the pandemic , the proportion have rise to 82 % follow a transformation in the teaching of phonic in nearly all primary school . will my right hon . friend join I in thank the National Literacy Trust and Bloomsbury Publishing for include a number of school in Hastings and St Leonards in their pioneer new reading programme , which be specifically aim at persuade more child to read for pleasure , and will he encourage parent and carer to engage in a programme that be a vital part of their child ' s development ? I recently meet Jonathan Douglas of the National Literacy Trust , and I thank the trust for its enormous contribution to raise the profile of reading for pleasure in school . its new programme — which , as my hon . Friend say , it launch in partnership with Bloomsbury — involve work with seven Brighton Academies Trust school throughout Hastings to encourage more child to read for pleasure . I call the shadow Minister . in its White Paper for school , publish last year , the Government ' s headline ambition be for 90 % of pupil leave primary school to meet the expect standard in reading , writing and math . why do the Minister think that , since that pledge , ten of thousand more child have be leave primary school without meet those standard ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , owe to the pandemic we do see a fall in writing and math standard . read standard rise , and then fall by two point this year . however , reading standard today be broadly similar to those before the pandemic , and since 2010 both reading and math have improve enormously in primary school throughout the country . I be confident that we will meet the 90 % target by 2030 . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . we can not talk about attainment at any level without also take into account child poverty . the link between undernourishment and low reading standard and , therefore , attainment across the board be irrefutable . when child be hungry , they can not focus on learn . the Scottish Government be currently roll out free school meal for all primary school child . when will the Minister take decisive step to combat child poverty and emulate the action of the Scottish Government ? under this Government , the number of child receive free school meal have increase hugely . about a third of child be now eligible for either benefit - relate free school meal or the universal infant free school meal introduce by our 2010 Government . however , the hon . Lady should be careful when talk about reading and education standard , because standard in this country have rise significantly , and I be not sure that the same can be say for Scotland . local Secondary School provision : Sittingbourne and Sheppey whether her Department be take step to ensure that secondary age child in Sittingbourne and Sheppey constituency be able to attend a local school . my hon . friend and I have discuss education provision on the Isle of Sheppey many time over the year . give the inadequate Ofsted grading for Oasis Academy Isle of Sheppey , the school be now be remove from the Oasis Community Learning trust to a strong multi - academy trust . I welcome that response from my very right hon . friend . currently , 1 , 000 child a day be buss from the Isle of Sheppey to sittingbourne school because parent do not want to send their child to the Isle of Sheppey academy , which mean that all sittingbourne secondary school be over - subscribe and many child in the town can not get into their local school . as my right hon . Friend say , the Department be in the process of transfer the academy to a new multi - academy trust , but with the end of the summer term fast approach , island parent have no idea whether that transfer will happen , or , if it do , what form it will take . as my right hon . friend know , I have be work with the Department on secondary education problem on the Isle of Sheppey for many year , and I know that official be do their good , but what can he do to speed up the process and end the current uncertainty ? I pay tribute to my very hon . friend for his passion for improve standard in school in his constituency . the transfer of the Isle of Sheppey academy to a new multi - academy trust be a priority for the Department . a strong preferred sponsor have be find , and a proposal be be develop by they . once those plan be complete , they will be put to parent before a final decision be take by the trust and the Department on the academy transfer . student Visa Eligibility : impact on high Education Sector what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the potential impact of change to the eligibility criterion for student visa on the competitiveness of the high education sector . as part of our commitment to have at least 600 , 000 student study in the UK every year , we have work closely with the Home Office to strike the right balance between act decisively on migration , be fair to the taxpayer and protect our position as a world leader in high education . we fully expect Britain to remain an attractive destination for student across the world . I thank the Minister for his answer . my constituency of Edinburgh South West be home to two lead university : Heriot - Watt and Edinburgh Napier . research by Universities UK show that the constituency ' s net economic benefit from international student be £ 170 . 8 million . the Government plan to massage the net migration figure by make the UK less attractive to international student . that be go to harm the economy in my constituency , Scotland ' s economy and our educational institution . can the Minister tell I : be that an example of the Union deliver for Scotland ? I be not quite sure what problem the hon . and learn Lady be try to solve . I mention to she that our target be 600 , 000 international student ; we have surpass that — 679 , 000 international student be come to our country , which be something we be proud of . but as I say , we have to be fair to not only international student and university but the taxpayer , who bear the cost of the infrastructure . but I agree with the hon . and learn Lady that international student have a huge impact on the economy , of up to £ 37 billion - plus . time after time , we find that every Government Department be short of young graduate with digital skill . will my right hon . friend think about make an application to the Home Office to encourage more visa to be grant to student who want to take digital degree in this country ? my hon . friend be learn in these matter , but they be for the Home Office . we be develop our digital skill at home with amazing digital apprenticeship . half of our 670 apprenticeship standard be in STEM subject , and there be t - level and high technical qualification in digital . we be spend on the digital skill that our local people need . we have to give they the skill they need as well . institutional Partnerships : Further and high Education what step she be take to increase partnership between further education college and high education institution to help increase learn opportunity . we be transform tertiary education by build state of the art prestigious institute of technology college , back by £ 300 million and lead by further education and high education business . we have also introduce the lifelong loan entitlement — it be in the House of Lords at the moment . that will allow high and further education to collaborate , offer short course and the transfer of course between FE and he institution . last week , I meet representative of the National Farmers Union at the Great Yorkshire Show . we discuss the great need for new skill and a skilled workforce in area such as agro - ecology . what work be his Department do to link specialist agricultural college with the non - specialist FE and he sector ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . we have good land college and we be do everything we can to support they . there be two institute of technology college in Yorkshire , although not in his area . I be sure that he will be pleased with the investment of £ 88 million in his area into FE , sixth form and the university technical college , as well as a grammar school . we be do a lot of work on agricultural t - level as well . what step be my right hon . friend take to work with employer , local authority and jobcentre to ensure that as many adult as possible be aware of the opportunity available to they to learn and upskill ? my right hon . friend speak with huge wisdom . we be transform career advice through the National Careers Service , which be advise people on adult skill . we be spend hundred of million of pound on boot camp and on more than 400 free level 3 course . our apprenticeship scheme offer hundred of different apprenticeship . through career advice and our skill offer , we be ensure that adult get the skill they need . as a work - class kid from the constituency I now represent , I be not sure where I would be today if not for the opportunity I have to study for a so - call " Mickey Mouse degree " at university . after today ' s medium push and the Government ' s apparent crackdown on student , how do the Minister expect we to believe that this be not just a ruse to protect the privilege of the Timothies and Tabithas of the home county , as oppose to working - class kid ? the hon . Gentleman could not be more wrong . why be it right to send somebody to a high education institution , take out a significant loan of £ 9 , 250 each year , to take a course that lead either to poor completion , poor continuation or poor progression ? this government be stop that by impose recruitment cap on such course . I be proud that record number of disadvantaged student be go to university . More disadvantaged student be go to university than ever before . parent and pupil across Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke wait anxiously to find out the result of the fantastic bid make by the further education City of Stoke - on - Trent Sixth Form College and the high education Staffordshire University for a free school to unleash the digital skill , in particular , that we want to see in Stoke - on - Trent . will my right hon . friend lobby the Schools Minister and the Secretary of State not only to make sure this be announce soon , but to make sure it be deliver quickly so that we get the school place we so desperately need ? I be very pleased to visit Staffordshire University , which be a model university that offer a brilliant policing degree apprenticeship scheme , among other . the Secretary of State be listen carefully to the bid , and I be sure she will make the announcement shortly . I call the shadow Minister . the introduction of the lifelong loan entitlement , which we all support , will inevitably require great collaboration between high education and further education provider , but under the current regulatory system , as the line between HE and FE blur , we be see significant regulatory duplication and increase burden . this act as a brake on partnership . do the Minister not recognise the need to streamline the regulatory system to foster collaboration ahead of , rather than after , the introduction of the LLE ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that the lifelong loan entitlement of up to £ 37 , 000 will be transformative for million of people across the country , enable they to take short or modular course at a time of their choosing . we be look at regulation across the high education and further education sector , and we be do all we can to reduce it , but I recognise some of the issue he raise . Tuition fee : Social Mobility what assessment her Department have make of the potential impact of tuition fee on the social mobility of young people . the introduction of tuition fee have not lead to few disadvantaged young people go into high education . as I have already highlight , the 18 - year - old entry rate for disadvantaged student in England increase from 14 . 4 % in 2011 to 25 . 1 % in 2022 . we see record number of disadvantaged student go into high education in 2022 , with the rate for student on free school meal go up from 20 % to 30 % . I thank the Minister for that answer but , in the last academic year , english student graduate with £ 30 , 000 more debt , on average , than their scottish counterpart . despite this , both the Government and the Labour party refuse to follow the Scottish Government ' s lead by abolish tuition fee in England . with more than 16 , 000 undergraduate drop out of high education this year , will this Government admit that their policy be push student into debt , and often out of university ? actually , we be be fair both to student and to all those taxpayer who do not go to university . I might point out that low - income student live away from home will qualify for more living cost support over the come year than low - income student in Scotland . the new labour dream of 50 % of young people go to university have leave many saddle with debt , a third of graduate unable to find graduate job and more than half of graduate never earn enough to repay their student loan , so I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement today of a reduction in the number of low - value degree , which benefit neither student nor taxpayer . will the Department look to go far by identify whole university that could be transform into high technical and vocational institution , which would give far more young people the opportunity and training they really need for the productive job of the future ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , in the sense that the Labour party be all about quantity over quality , and we be about quality , high standard and a good education . we be already do a lot of what she want , because we be introduce institute of technology , which be collaboration between high education and further education that provide flagship skill and teach high technical qualification , with 21 across the country . they be do exactly what she want we to do . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this week , I have accept the independent review body ' s recommendation in full , so our fantastic teacher will receive their high pay award for 30 year — it will be at least 6 . 5 % . from September , we will have deliver on our manifesto commitment by raise teacher ' start salary to £ 30 , 000 . to support our school leader , we be provide an extra £ 525 million this year and a furth £ 900 million in 2024 - 25 . this be not just about school , because we will also be invest £ 185 million and £ 285 million in our further education college over the same period . all four union have recommend the pay award , and it be fully fund . I hope that teacher will join they , so that we can bring an end to strike action and get our teacher do what they do good : teach the next generation . UK student who have be offer opportunity to study abroad be wait for funding decision under the ture scheme . clearly , for student from less well - off family this be tough , as visa and accommodation have to be pay in advance . will the Secretary of State , out of the kindness of her heart and to a man from the highland , give a commitment to bring forward these decision next year , to make the ture scheme more accessible to all student , regardless of their background ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the ture scheme be a great success . disadvantaged student will take up two third of the international study and work opportunity from September , with student go to 160 different country . it be a remarkable scheme , give that it have be introduce so quickly . it be a new demand - lead scheme , but I will work with the sector to make improvement to it and make sure that people be fund in time . I attend a meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on fishery , which I normally chair , where a keenness be express to encourage young people to have an interest in a career in fishing at the education stage . I have hear similar plea from farmer . what more can the Department do to make that a reality ? my hon . friend be a true fisherman ' s friend , although a lot sweet tasting than the lozenge , I might add . she will be pleased to know that high - quality apprenticeship standard in agriculture and a level 2 fisher apprenticeship be available . we be promote apprenticeship , include in agriculture , in our school , and through the apprenticeship support and knowledge programme , and the Careers & Enterprise Company . I call the shadow Secretary of State . minister have know since last year that strike action by teacher be likely , yet after month of refuse to talk , it be only last week that the Secretary of State finally settle the dispute . will she take this opportunity to apologise to parent for the completely needless and avoidable disruption to their child ' s education for which she be responsible ? since I come into this job at the end of October , the union ask for an extra £ 2 billion and I deliver it ; family ask for childcare and I deliver it ; the School Teachers Review Body ask for 6 . 5 % for teacher and I deliver it ; and that have to be fund , and I have deliver it . I have work to deliver every day in this job , whereas the hon . Lady can not even decide whether she will accept 6 . 5 % or not . last week , the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that end private school ' tax break will raise up to £ 1 . 5 billion in additional revenue , confirm that Labour ' s plan be fiscally credible . we would use that money to invest in 6 , 500 new expert teacher and well mental health support for all our young people . will the Secretary of State distance herself from the discredited claim of the private school ' lobby , do the right thing and adopt Labour ' s plan to drive up standard in our school ? Labour have never drive up a standard in our school . Most of our private school be nothing like Eton or Harrow ; they be far small and they charge a lot less . many cost the same as a family holiday abroad , and there be plenty of parent who choose to forgo life ' s luxury to give their child those opportunity . the IFS also say : " the effect might be large over the medium to long run … there be still lot of uncertainty around these estimate . " labour ' s tax hike be nothing more than the politic of envy . as Margaret Thatcher once say : " the spirit of envy can destroy ; it can never build . " will the Minister update my constituent on the progress be make towards open a new free school in Warrington , to provide well and more appropriate education for young people with autism and other special educational need ? we recently change the location of the Warrington free school from the Bruche Primary School to a well suited site at Padgate , with the agreement of the local authority and the trust . we be now work with all party to begin design preparation work and the school be on track to open in September 2025 . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . today , headteacher in England have speak of an unprecedented struggle to recruit teacher , because teacher in England feel undervalued and underpaid . to combat this , when will the UK Government match the offer make by the Scottish Government , which will see most scottish teacher ' pay rise by 14 . 6 % by January 2024 , deliver a start salary of £ 39 , 000 , which be much more than the £ 30 , 000 that the Secretary of State have boast about today for teacher in England ? in England , standard be rise . we have a record number of teacher in our profession : 468 , 000 teacher , which be some 27 , 000 more than in 2010 . we value education in this country , standard be rise and they will continue to rise , provide we have a Conservative Government . I be pleased to welcome Department for Education official to Tipton St John Primary School in my constituency of East Devon recently . thank to the Department , the school have the funding it need and now have priority status in the school rebuilding programme . that be thank to the Conservative Government . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss the project ' s great progress so far ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend . progress be be make in identify and secure a site on which to relocate the school . official continue to work with Devon County Council and the diocese of Exeter . I thank my hon . friend for his support in progress the discussion . the next step be for site appraisal to take place on potential new location , and official will continue to keep my hon . Friend inform . a record 40 , 000 teacher in England resign last year ; teacher vacancy have double in the last two year ; and agency and underfunde training programme be struggle to send qualified teacher to school . Amy Lassman , the headteacher of Nelson Mandela Primary School , an outstanding primary school in my constituency , tell I that that be affect student the most , with many fail their class . will Ministers tell we what they intend to do to narrow the attainment gap and raise standard , when we have few and few teacher ? we continue to raise standard in our school , as the hon . Gentleman will know . he should not talk down the profession . this be an exciting time to join teaching . it be an honour to be able to work with child and to shape the next generation . this year , 47 , 000 people come into teaching , a number that be broadly similar year on year , because this be a good profession to join and there be a Government that will support the teaching profession . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education for visit the busy Bees nursery in my constituency of Crawley early this month , and for the £ 204 million of investment that the Government be put into childcare provider . do that not demonstrate that the Conservative Government be now deliver for work parent ? I know that my hon . friend have do a lot of work in this sector . it be wonderful to visit busy Bees and the fantastic team who work there . as well as the £ 204 million increase for provider , we have announce a £ 289 million investment to develop our universal wraparound childcare offer . we be the party of work parent . labour have flip - flop repeatedly on childcare , announce vague policy in the autumn , which it quickly backtrack on . its new plan , which I hear be to be mean - test , would snatch away childcare from thousand of hard - work parent . we be roll out the large investment in childcare in our history ; Labour can not even keep to its word . I say gently to the Secretary of State that I be very generous at the beginning , but that do not carry on all the way through topical . I want you to set a good example in this school classroom . what step be the Secretary of State take to improve the development of child ' s early speech and language skill , especially in school such as the wonderful Chester Blue Coat Primary School where 39 language be speak ? I thank the hon . Lady for that question . this be really important . we be try to make sure that all staff in early year setting be well equipped . we will be set out a practice guide specifically on early year speech and language , as well as work with the NHS on well diagnostic . labour - run Kirklees Council have be sit on million of pound of unspent section 106 infrastructure payment , much of which have be allocate for local school . in the meantime , I have a local school that have a leaky roof . it be impair the teacher ' ability to teach the child . may I please ask the Minister what be happen with the late round of condition improvement funding to help with school repair ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . we have spend £ 15 billion since 2015 on repair and maintenance of our school estate . we intend to announce any successful appeal from the late condition improvement fund round this month , as CIF typically open for application each autumn . eligible school with an urgent condition need that can not wait until the next round may of course apply for the urgent capital support . the mental wellbeing of young people and child be really important . last week , I meet staff from Ebor Academy Trust and our mental health trust to talk about how well provision can be put in place . Labour have commit to ensure that we have mental health professional in our school , but in this school it be the teaching assistant provide most of the care . how be we ensure that teaching assistant be properly reward ? rate for teach assistant be set by the local authority . teach assistant be highly regard by all of we . as the hon . Lady say , they provide important pastoral care alongside the mental health support that we be roll out via the mental health support team . high education already publish outcome datum , so student choose course can compare what their chance of employment and earn power will be for each course at each college or university and make fully inform decision . do the Minister accept that publish outcome for further education alongside high education not only show student the good course and college , but put fe and he on an equal footing for the first time and push those offer low - value fe and he qualification to either shape up or close down ? I know that my hon . friend be a champion of his brilliant Weston College , which be an example of the greatness of our FE college . he will be pleased to know that the DFE publish outcome datum on further education , which show statistic on the employment , earning and learn outcome of further education learner . we be introduce a data dashboard , which be in the direction of travel in which he want to go . despite statutory guidance to reduce the cost of school uniform , far too many school be require four and up to five brand item . what more will the Minister do to intervene to ensure that school abide by the law ? I thank the hon . member for his private Member ' s Bill that , with the Government ' s support , enable we to put the guidance on a statutory footing . about 61 % of headteacher be aware of that guidance and be take action to implement it . if parent be still concerned that the school uniform be too expensive , they can raise it with the school and go through the school ' s complaint process . in the absence of any ofsted oversight or regulation of multi - academy trust , will my right hon . friend tell I what mechanism be in place for a school to escalate concern over the pooling of pupil grant funding , especially in a situation where a multi - academy trust give a school considerably less money than the Education and Skills Funding Agency allowance for that school ? academy trust can pool their general annual grant to deliver key improvement and efficiency across the academy in the trust . the academy trust handbook require consideration of each school ' s need and an appeal mechanism , which can be escalate to the ESFA . in my constituency of Edinburgh West this week , student be graduate , some of they with unclassified result , because of a dispute involve mark . this be make it difficult for those wish to do master or PhDs , particularly foreign student who have be tell that they will have to reapply for visa . be the Department for Education and the Home Office look at way of facilitate those student take up the place that they have be offer without the classification and avoid that problem with the visa ? UK Visas and Immigration will consider exercise discretion , and will hold graduate route application make before the applicant result have be receive , provide that the result be receive within eight week of the application be make . student who do not know when they will receive their result due to the boycott will be able to extend their permission while they wait for their result . they will be exceptionally exempt from meet academic progression requirement . I will write to the hon . Lady with full detail . recently I visit Rushmere Hall Primary School in Ipswich , which be do a fantastic job to support all neurodiverse pupil , particularly dyslexic pupil ; however , its head speak of a need for all regular teacher to have a well base understanding of neurodiversity , not just new specialist . in the special educational need and disability improvement plan , the Government commit to that . I would like an update on how far we be get with deliver that in practice . I thank my hon . friend , who I know be an amazing campaigner on this issue . we be do a lot to progress the support in school , make sure that we have access to a specialist workforce and that teacher have proper training . we will set out a good practice guide on autism specifically , for which we have see a big rise in need . the price of school meal have increase by more than a third in some part of the UK , yet the Government , and indeed the Labour Front Benchers , will not commit to universal free school meal for primary school - age child . the Scottish Government be roll out free school meal across all primary school . the question be when this Government will take the lead from the Scottish Government and act decisively to help struggle family . record number of pupil in England be now eligible for a free school meal . under universal infant free school meal , all infant pupil get a free meal . a third of child in our school be receive a free school meal . we believe very strongly , however , that we should focus the funding on the child in the great need . we keep the issue under review , but our focus be always on the most disadvantaged . my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , the Chair of the Education Committee , mention my child not in School ( Register ) Bill , which pass its First Reading with support from colleague across all party and both Houses . the Schools Minister himself say before the Select Committee last month : " it be important that we know where child be and can make sure that they be safe . " therefore , be it not critical that the Government work with I to expedite the Bill , as an exist and ongoing legislation vehicle that the Government can use without any further delay ? as I have point out , we do intend to legislate for the child not in school measure and put attendance on a statutory footing when the legislative timetable allow , look at the sit Fridays that be leave within this period . the Department be currently run a call for evidence on improve the support for child miss from education , and that evidence will be use to inform future policy . do the Secretary of State think that something might be go seriously wrong when child in our junior school be be indoctrinate by gender ideology at the same time as senior member of this House appear unable to define what a woman be ? I can assure my hon . friend that I be more than capable of define what a woman be . it be true that some school be ask for guidance in this area , so we intend to bring forward guidance . I be work with my right hon . friend the Equalities Minister to bring that forward in the near term . last week , 14 officer from West Midlands police be recognise at the Police Bravery Awards for form a human chain and break through the ice as Fin , Tom , Jack and Sam fall through in sub - zero temperature at Babbs Mill lake in Kingshurst . I thank the Minister for his time on this previously . what progress have be make in revise the relationship , health and sex education curriculum guideline specifically on understand the implication of cold water shock on the body ? what happen to my hon . friend ' s constituent be tragic . swimming and water safety be in the national curriculum , and the Government be update the school sport and activity action plan , which will set out action to help all pupil take part in sport and keep fit , include swimming and water safety . the plan will be publish this year to align with the timing of the Government ' s new school sport strategy . the Secretary of State tell the medium at the weekend that she have find the money for the pay settlement from an underspend in the Department . can she tell the House exactly where she find the money and what policy have not be deliver ? I be delighted to . we have a constructive relationship with the Treasury , whether on childcare , school funding or extra budgeting , and in this particular case what we have do , as I have do many time in my 30 - year business career , be to go through every line of the budget . we spend £ 100 billion on education , so there be a lot of thing in that budget , and we have go through it and check every single assumption . some be demand lead and some depend on the roll - out of certain project . we have protect the frontline and reprioritise ; what have change be that the Treasury have allow we to keep that money to reprioritise — [ interruption . ] it be an answer . the right hon . Lady may not understand , because she do not — order . I be not sure the Secretary of State be understand I , either . when I say these be topical , I mean that — [ interruption . ] order . no , I be sorry ; if you do not want member on your side of the House to get in , please say so , because that be what be go to happen , and it be totally unfair to the people who be wait . let we play by the rule — that be what we expect from all of we . I recently visit the impressive National STEM Learning Centre in York and be fortunate enough to be able to observe some of its work . I would be delighted if my right hon . friend could visit , but in the interim , can she detail what professional support be available for teacher in their continue professional development ? we have engage in an extensive reform of teacher training , introduce what we call the golden thread : a high level of requirement in initial teacher training and a two - year early career framework for teacher just start off in their career . those standard will mean that in science , technology , engineering and mathematic , and in all subject , teacher be well prepared to enter the profession . the chair of the govern body of 19 primary and secondary school across the London Boroughs of Richmond and Kingston upon Thames have today write to the Education Secretary , request an urgent meeting to discuss the crippling funding and recruitment challenge they face . will she agree to meet they ? of course the Secretary of State will agree , as she have just say to I . we be spend record amount of funding on school . the Secretary of State achieve an extra £ 2 billion in the autumn statement last year and we be now spend £ 59 . 6 billion on school funding . [ Official Report , 20 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 16mc . ] we have recruit 2 , 800 more teacher this year than last year and we have a record number of teacher in the profession , at 468 , 000 , but of course I be happy to talk to the hon . Lady and the teacher in her constituency to discuss their particular concern . rise — Order . I be sorry , we have take too much time on question . you will have to do without . high Education Reform with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to announce the publication of the Government ' s high education reform consultation response . this country be one of the good in the world for study in high education , boast four of the world ' s top 10 university . for most , high education be a sound investment , with graduate expect to earn on average £ 100 , 000 more over their lifetime than those who do not go to university . however , there be still pocket of high education provision where the promise that university education will be worthwhile do not hold true and where an unacceptable number of student do not finish their study or find a good job after graduate . that can not continue . it be not fair to taxpayer who subsidise that education , but most of all it be not fair to those student who be be sell a promise of a well tomorrow , only to be disappoint and end up pay far into the future for a degree that do not offer they good value . we want to make sure that student be charge a fair price for their study and that a university education offer a good return . our reform be aim at achieve that objective . that be why the Government launch the consultation in 2022 , to seek view on policy base on recommendation make by Sir Philip Augar and his independent panel . the consultation end in May 2022 , and the Department for Education have be consider the response receive . I be now able to set out the programme of reform that we be take forward . I believe that the traditional degree continue to hold great value , but it be not the only high education pathway . over the past 13 year , we have make substantial reform to ensure that the traditional route be not the only pathway to a good career . high technical qualification massively enhance student ' skill and career prospect , and deserve parity of esteem with undergraduate degree . we have see a growth in degree - level apprenticeship , with over 188 , 000 student enrol since their introduction in 2014 . I have ask the Office for student to establish a £ 40 million competitive degree apprenticeship fund to drive forward capacity - build project to broaden access to degree apprenticeship over the next two year . that drive to encourage skill be why we be also invest up to £ 115 million to help provider deliver high technical education . in March , we set out detailed information on how the lifelong learning entitlement will transform the way in which individual can undertake post - 18 education , and we continue to support that transformation through the Lifelong Learning ( high Education Fee Limits ) Bill , which be currently pass through the other place . we anticipate that that funding , couple with the introduction of the LLE from 2025 , will help to incentivise the take - up of high technical education , fill vital skill gap across the country . each of those reform have have one simple premise : that we be educate people with the skill that will enable they to have a long and fulfilling career . I believe that we should have the same expectation for high education : it should prepare student for life by give they the right skill and knowledge to get well - pay job . with the advent of the lle , it be neither fair nor right for student to use potentially three quarter of their lifelong loan entitlement for a university degree that do not offer they good return . that would constrain their future ability to learn , earn and retrain . we must shrink the part of the sector that do not deliver value , and ensure that student and taxpayer be get value for money give their considerable investment . datum show that there be 66 provider from which few than 60 % of graduate progress to high - skilled employment or further study fifteen month after graduate . that be not acceptable . I will therefore issue statutory guidance to the OfS set out that it should impose recruitment limit on provision that do not meet its rigorous quality requirement for positive student outcome , to help to constrain the size and growth of course that do not deliver for student . we will also ask the ofs to consider how it can incorporate graduate earning into its quality regime . we recognise that many factor can influence graduate earning , but student have a right to expect that their investment in high education will improve their career prospect , and we should rightly scrutinise course that appear to offer limited add value to student on the metric that matter most to many . we will work with the ofs to consider franchising arrangement in the sector . all organisation that deliver high education must be hold to robust standard . I be concern about some indication that franchising be act as a potential route for low quality to seep into the high education system , and I be absolutely clear that lead provider have a responsibility to ensure that franchised provision be of the same quality as directly deliver provision . if we find example of undesirable practice , we will not hesitate to act far on franchising . as I have say , we will ensure that student be charge a fair price for their study . that be why we be also reduce to £ 5 , 760 the fee for classroom - base foundation year course such as business study and social science , in line with the high standard funding rate for access to he diploma . recently we have see an explosion in the growth of many such course , but limited evidence that they be in the good interest of student . we be not reduce the fee limit for high - cost , strategically important subject such as veterinary science and medicine , but we want to ensure that foundation year be not use to add to the bottom line of institution at the expense of those who study they . we will continue to monitor closely the growth of foundation year provision , and we will not hesitate to introduce further restriction or reduction . I want provider to consider whether those course add value for student , and to phase out that provision in favour of a broad range of tertiary option with the advent of the LLE . our aim be that everyone who want to benefit from high education have the opportunity to do so . that be why we will not proceed at this time with a minimum requirement of academic attainment to access student finance — although we will keep that option under review . I be confident that the sector will respond with the ambition and focused collaboration require to deliver this package of reform . I extend my wholehearte thank to those in the sector for their response to the consultation . this package of reform represent the next step in tackle low - quality high education , but it will not be the last step . the Government will not shy away from further action if require , and will consider all lever available to we if these quality reform do not result in the improvement we seek . our high education system be admire across many country , and these measure will ensure that it continue to be . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . today ' s statement tell we several story about this Government . it tell a story about their priority : why university , and why now ? it tell a story about their analysis : what they think be wrong and what they think be not . it tell a story about their competence : why these change , when their own regulator have use a different approach for so long ? it tell a story about their prejudice , about why they continue to reinforce a binary choice for young people : either academic or vocational , university or apprenticeship . above all , it tell a story about value — about the choice to put cap on the aspiration and ambition of our young people ; about Ministers for whom opportunity be for their child , but not for other people ' s child ; about a government whose only big idea for our world - lead university be to put up fresh barrier to opportunity , anxious to keep young people in their place . it tell you everything you need to know about the Tories that this be their priority for our young people . this be the Tories ' priority when we be in the middle of an urgent crisis in this country ; when family be struggle to make end meet ; when patient be face the big waiting list in NHS history ; when child be go to school in building that Ministers themselves acknowledge be " very likely " to collapse ; and when a spiral of low productivity , low growth , and low wage under the Tories be hold Britain back . it be because the Prime Minister be weak and he be in hock to his Back Benchers that we be not see action on those important priority . instead , after more than 13 year in power , the Government have show what they really think of our university , which be famous across the world , be core to so many of our regional economy and be essential to our pandemic response : that they be not a public good , but a political battleground . the Government ' s concept of a successful university course , base on earning , be not just narrow but limit . I ask the Secretary of State briefly to consider the case of the right hon . member for Richmond ( Yorks ) ( Rishi Sunak ) . the Prime Minister have a degree in politic from one of our lead university , yet his Government lose control of almost 50 council this year , he be the second choice of his own party , and now he be on track to fail to deliver on the pledge he set himself publicly . do the Secretary of State believe that the Prime Minister ' s degree be in any sense a high - value course ? let we be clear what today ' s announcement be really about . many of our most successful new university — the fruit of the determination of successive government , Labour and Conservative , to spread opportunity in this country — often draw more student from their local community . many of those area be far from London , far from exist concentration of graduate job . many of those student come from background where few in their family , if any , will have have the chance to go to university . many of those young people benefit from extra support when they arrive at university to ensure they succeed . we on the Labour Benches welcome the success of those university in widen participation and welcome more young people into high education , yet today , the Secretary of State be tell those young people — include those excited to be finish their study this year — that this government believe their hard work count for nothing . can the Secretary of State be absolutely clear with the House , and tell we which of those university ' course she consider to be of low value ? the Secretary of State be keen to trumpet her party ' s record on apprenticeship , but let I set out what this Government ' s record really be . since 2015 - 16 , apprenticeship start among under - 19 have drop by 41 % , and apprentice achievement in that age group be down by 57 % . since the Secretary of State enter this place , the number of young people achieve an apprenticeship at any level have more than halve , fail a generation of young people desperate to take on an apprenticeship . lastly and most importantly , the value that this Government have set out today be clear : the Conservatives be say to England ' s young people that opportunity be not for they and that choice be not for they . the bizarre irony of a Conservative Government seek to restrict freedom and restrict choice seem entirely lose on they . labour will shatter the class ceiling . we will ensure that young people believe that opportunity be for they . Labour be the party of opportunity , aspiration and freedom . let we be clear , too , that young people want to go to university not merely to get on financially , but for the chance to join the pursuit of learning , to explore idea and undertake research that benefit we all . that chance and that opportunity matter too . our child deserve well . they deserve a government whose most important mission will be to break down the barrier to opportunity and to build a country where background be no barrier . they deserve a Labour Government . as usual , the hon . Lady have more word than action . none of those action be put in place either in Wales , where Labour be run the education system , or in the UK when it be run it in England . we have always make the deliberate choice of quality over quantity , and this be a story of a consistent drive for quality , whether that be through my right hon . friend the Schools Minister have drive up school standard , so that we be the good in the west for reading and fourth good in the world , or through childcare , revolutionise the apprenticeship system — none of that exist before we put it in place — and technical education and high education . I be an other people ' s child : I be that kid who leave school at 16 , who go to a fail comprehensive school in Knowsley . I rely on the business , and the college and the university that I go to . I do not know their brand image and I know absolutely nobody who have ever be there . I put my trust in that company , and luckily it do I very well . not all university and not all course have the trust brand image of Oxford and Cambridge , which I think be where the hon . Lady go , along with my right hon . friend the Prime Minister . I have work with many leader all over the world in my many year in business , and the Prime Minister be a world - class leader . on apprenticeship , it be a case of quality always over quantity . what we find , and this be why I introduce the quality standard , be that , yes , the number be high , but many of the people do not realise they be on an apprenticeship , many of the apprenticeship last less than 12 month and for many of they there be zero off - the - job training . they be apprenticeship in name only , which be what the Labour party will be when it come to standard for education . I call the Father of the House . I thank the Secretary of State . those of we with long memory know that we either ration place by number or we give people choice . if she be give people the choice of be able to discriminate between the course and university on offer , I congratulate she , as I do especially on the lifetime learning and the degree apprenticeship expansion , which have already happen , with more to come . however , can I also speak up for those who either get fourth - class degree or fail to take a degree at all , include two of the three Governors of the Bank of England who go to King ' s and who come out without a degree ? Rabi Tagore leave university , and many other poet , painter , teacher or minister of religion — whether rabbi , imam or minister in the Christian Church — do not show up highly on the earning scale , but they might show up highly in their contribution to society . can my right hon . friend please make sure that she do not let an algorithm rate college , course or university ? I thank my hon . friend for his remark , and I very much agree that this be about choice — the lifelong loan entitlement , degree apprenticeship and all of the other choice — and about people understand that there be many different route to success in life . we have ask the Office for student to look at earning , because I realise that be difficult and that some job will not earn people more . however , for his information , five year after graduate from some course , people be earn less than £ 18 , 000 . that be less than the minimum wage , and it be not acceptable . may I ask the Secretary of State , because she have not actually spell this out , what be a low - value degree ? in relation to low - value degree , an example of the quality provision we have introduce for the Office for Students be B3 , which be about : whether student continue in their degree , because clearly if they drop out , it be not of much value ; whether they complete their degree , because clearly if they do not complete it , it be of zero value ; and whether they get a job or progress into high education afterwards . those be the three quality measure we look at . right now , the Office for Students be look at 18 provider and two specific area — business and management , and computer science — because there be a massive range in what people can expect to earn from job have follow one course or other , all of which seem to have the same name . there be quality issue , and we want to make sure that they be thoroughly investigate . the Office for Students be do that . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I welcome the focus on both choice and policy that my right hon . friend have focus on in her statement . the Education Committee will want to look at the detail of the proposal , and at the kind of course that be affect . it be crucial that in launch this approach , she recognise that all our university be sell a premium product . all our university be high - quality institution , and it would be wrong to discriminate against different university in the system when , after all , they be all fund on the same fundamental basis . I agree with my hon . friend and I be proud of our university sector . it be much admire all over the world , but we must ensure that specific course in all institution offer the quality that people expect . when people invest in these degree they will come out with £ 40 , 000 or £ 50 , 000 of debt , and it be important first that they know that , and secondly that they know what they be invest in , and what return they will get on that investment . may I beg the Secretary of State not to throw the baby out with the bath water ? everybody want good - quality degree , and we all want degree to lead to good , fulfilling occupation , but some of we be worried about the comment that be make in an interview this morning by the Secretary of State ' s ministerial colleague that we have four or five of the good university in the world , as if all the other 120 university be rubbish . that be not the case . we have diverse university and great course . I ask she please not to throw the baby out with the bath water and do great damage to our high education system . I agree with the hon . Gentleman . we have an excellent university system with excellent university . four out of the top 10 be world - class , but if we broaden that to the top 100 , many other would appear in that list . we have a good university sector , which be why it be most important that we protect the brand image . it be also very popular abroad , and every year more than 600 , 000 student choose to come here , which be more than to almost every other country in the world . why ? it be because they know they will get quality , and it be very important for the sector that that quality be maintain . I know the Secretary of State take a more than purely transactional view of high education , and I be with the Father of the House in hope that in her reform there will be protection for degree that do not offer an immediate commercial advantage , such as theology , philosophy or the study of poetry . I also hope that within her reform there will be protection to allow university to innovate and introduce new course . our university sector have obviously be at the forefront of drive forward british intellectualism and thinking , and not allow university to experiment with course that may not immediately fulfil the criterion that she be propose , or indeed forbid or deter they from do so , would set we back in world term . will she reassure we that innovation will still be encourage ? I thank my right hon . friend for all the work that he do in this area . yes , I understand the difficulty of choose a blunt number or tool . that be why I have ask the Office for student to consider how such thing could be use and what approach we need to ensure that we do not throw the baby out with the bath water , or end up with unintended consequence . on innovation , I be absolutely encourage all our university to innovate , work with business . the pace of technological change across the world and what be to come in the future be immense , and I want our university to work with our further education college , training provider , business and other , to ensure that we innovate and give everybody the good opportunity for the future . there be no clear sign of a Government who be out of idea and have run out of steam than when they re - announce policy and badge they as new . the Office for Students already have these power , and have already cap four specific provider . rather than put down our university and cap our young people ' s aspiration , why do the Secretary of State not invest in they by restore maintenance grant , and finally sign the dotted line on Horizon membership ? not all the thing I have bring forward today have already be announce . the information on foundation degree be new , and the work we be do with the OfS be also new . we have ask the ofs to consider the impact of recruitment limit , and how those can be introduce . I personally think this be an important set of reform . we need to make sure that we have access to these fantastic course at our university so that through programme — such as Horizon , when we complete those negotiation — we can continue to offer the very good in science from this country . I very much welcome this statement to limit the number of student that university can recruit to course that be fail . the Secretary of State have my full support . can she tell I whether this measure will also apply to foreign student ? at the very least , will foreign student be bar from bring dependant with they to do these course ? the quality of the course on offer apply to everybody . if we change the quality for domestic student , it will then be the same quality for international student , which be important because of the size of the international student sector , which bring about £ 25 billion to £ 30 billion to our economy every year . we have already address the issue of dependant for teach master ' s course in our recent change to migration visa . the Secretary of State have confirm that the Office for Students already have the power to enforce on student outcome provision , so this announcement be just narrow politicking . hide in the UCAS figure last week be the fact that home student application be fall in this country . can the Secretary of State confirm that this Government ' s policy be now one of narrow participation ? absolutely not , no . I be delighted that the hon . Gentleman have ask this question , because our policy be about widen participation and make sure that education be high - quality . it be also about make sure that there be more degree apprenticeship . there be now 180 , 000 , which do not exist before . there be now 180 , 000 more people who can do what I do , as the only degree apprentice in the House of Commons . it be a fantastic route into the workplace . we also have high technical qualification and boot camp . there be so much investment that have all happen under this Conservative Government . do my right hon . friend agree that the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , miss the opportunity to condemn the disgusting and cruel University and College Union mark boycott ? will my right hon . friend use these reform to protect young people to ensure that this never happen again and that university such as Cambridge and Exeter can issue degree ? it be important . young people have suffer already a lot during covid . they have invest in their degree and put all the hard work in . it be only right that they should have their degree mark . this be a dispute between university and their lecturer , but we be urge they to make sure they prioritise all those who will be graduate this year . I welcome the announcement today , because for far too long , some university cynically sell course to student even though they know the outcome be poor in qualification and employment opportunity . do the Minister accept that it be her party that allow the increase in fee , be aware of the mismatch sometimes between course and the need of the economy , and do nothing to cap those course ? do she not recognise that some people will be rather cynical that the tsunami of announcement we be get now be more to do with the by - election , rather than the ability to deliver between now and a general election ? absolutely not . I have be work on this policy with many former Ministers , even since I be the Apprenticeships and Skills Minister . we have be work on this for a long time to make sure we get it right . when a work - class kid who will come out with £ 50 , 000 of debt put their trust in an institution , they have to put their trust in the system and it be vital that the system deliver for they . if they have £ 50 , 000 of debt and no well job prospect , that be not a system deliver for they . would it not benefit university course ' quality more if university administrator be pay a lot less and university lecturer be pay rather more ? my right hon . friend put his finger on a debate that be go on in our university right now , and I know it be part of the discussion between university lecturer and university management . I have be around the block — oxbridge , red brick , ex - poly — long enough to know that this statement reek of academic snobbery and desperation . in cultural study , people can legitimately analyse Mickey Mouse as a subject of academic inquiry — I have ex - student who do that who be now earn more than any of we in here . when will the Government address the thing that our constituent really want to be deal with , such as crippling student debt and the massively reduced and minimal contact hour that the covid generation get ? the hon . Lady will be delighted about the datum that we now have . if student have do those course go on to earn more — I do not know what her judgment be on those institution — that will be absolutely fantastic ; that be all that we expect . I have two business and management degree and know business well , have spend 30 year in it , but if people can not get a good business job after do a business and management degree , I would suggest that be not a good - quality degree . one must recognise that . my right hon . friend be right to celebrate Britain ' s international high education success , but do she agree that any change make must recognise the tremendous success of the 2 , 000 worker at the University of Bolton , which have shoot up the Guardian ' s good university guide league table now to be place in the top 40 ? my hon . friend make an excellent point , and I know that he be a big champion of the University of Bolton , which I be delighted to meet recently . it be quite interesting that a lot of former polytechnic and new university be work and collaborate so well with business , offer more degree apprenticeship and more flexible course , and storm up the league table . I be concerned that many university degree that lead young people into the creative sector will be squeeze under the Government ' s plan . industry leader have warn that limit student number base on graduate earning fail to account for the work pattern of graduate in the creative industry , and particularly the art , where people do not immediately earn high salary . the salary in those profession do not reflect their importance to national wellbeing and the contribution that the art make to our national income . what assessment have the Department for Education make of the damage that this late policy will do to those art and humanity subject that have already be relentlessly cut back under Conservative - lead government ? I be a huge supporter of our creative and art industry , which be among our large , and we be very successful in they . I work with they a lot to ensure that we can deliver even broad apprenticeship route , because they be difficult industry to get into . I have ask the Office for student to consider how to do this reform to ensure that we consider thing like the creative art and other route , which sometimes take long to get into but offer a different aspect of learn . that be why we have not just introduce a blunt tool . I will continue to work with our fantastic creative sector . I congratulate my right hon . friend and the Department on their focus on excellence . this morning , I attend the graduation ceremony of student from Anglia Ruskin University in Chelmsford . it be so move , because , for the first time in history , student graduate as medical doctor in Essex . our investment five year ago in five new medical school across the country be a shine example of a Conservative Government invest for future need . will she work with I to try to double the number of medical student and encourage a degree apprenticeship for doctor , and will she congratulate our new doctor ? I know that my right hon . friend be a huge champion of Anglia Ruskin University . I be delighted about the number of medical doctor and the new medical school , which , as she say , be introduce under this Government . when I be the Apprenticeships and Skills Minister , one of the last thing I do , and which I be most proud about , be to get a medical doctor apprenticeship standard build , and I be delighted that that be be roll out from September . I look forward to Anglia Ruskin offer that as well . I be the first in my family to get a university degree — I hope that I be not the last . will the Secretary of State confirm that the Tory party be the party of the blocker — block aspiration and opportunity in high education as well as the building of affordable house ? no , I think that the hon . Member have get it completely wrong . under the Conservatives , an 18 - year - old from a disadvantaged background be 86 % more likely to go to university than they be in 2010 . under Labour , the rich student be seven time more likely to go to university than the poor 40 % in society . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s plan , but I want high education reform to go far . a recent paper by the New Conservatives include an excellent suggestion to extend the closure of the student dependant route to student enrol on one - year research master ' s degree . would she support that ? my hon . friend know that we have already look at that in careful detail . it be keep under review , and we recently make change to the teach course route . of course student deserve high - quality education at university . they also deserve to be care for during what be , for most of they , their first time away from home . do the Secretary of State agree with I , and with the family of young people who have tragically take their own life at university , that high education institution should do more to look out for and protect those student , include by have a statutory duty of care ? I completely agree . that be why the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , have ask all university to sign up to the mental health charter . a key stakeholder be the british taxpayer , who end up pick up a £ 1 billion bill for people who can not pay back their student debt . bricklayer , roofer and carpenter — there be not enough people in Britain to do those job . do the Education Secretary agree that we should promote those opportunity and route in our school system ? no one should turn up their nose at those job ; they offer a good pathway to a good wage , and we should promote they . my hon . friend make a very good point . lot of people be surprise by how much they can earn in some of those trade , whether welding , bricklaying or plumbing . there have be , and there will always be , fabulous apprenticeship and full - time course to make sure everyone can reach those career . the most important factor in determine graduate outcome remain the student ' s socioeconomic background . the average student from a working - class background go on to earn less after graduate than their wealthy peer with the same degree . do the Minister concede that the Government ' s insistence on degrade the value of degree and restrict access to high education will only compound those deep structural inequality that define our education system ? do the Minister accept that many young people in my constituency will consider those plan an attempt to put they back in their place and out of university ? I be in exactly the same place as the people in his constituency — in fact , in the same city — so I do not accept that at all . we be upgrade the option for people from working - class background and upgrade the quality of degree . I would not be here if I have not have the option I have , which include an apprenticeship , FE college and a part - time degree at Liverpool John Moores University . that be high quality . everybody who put their trust in the system should get the same . I support my right hon . friend ' s comment on the UCU mark ban , which be so hurtful to student . the late UCAS datum show a record number of 18 - year - old from the most disadvantaged area accept on to a course , and that the entry rate gap between the most advantaged and disadvantaged area now stand at 2 . 1 , a record low . that be great , but there be more work to be do . will my right hon . friend continue to focus on close that gap ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be continue to close that gap , and we have make unbelievable progress — more in the last 13 year than ever in this country . we will continue to make sure that work class people get access to all high - quality route into the workplace . the Government should address the reason why some course be struggle , not the consequence . high education funding be in crisis , and that be have an impact on the function of university , not least the post - 1992 university . will the review by the Office for student look at the high education funding model ? how will it address the real symptom that she be talk about ? the hon . Lady make an interesting point , but at the moment the OfS have 18 provider under investigation for poor quality . there be many more provider , and we have a standard fee . it will look at contextual aspect such as demographic , socioeconomic and mature student . it look at all that in context , but there be 18 provider out of a much large number . the Secretary of State have my full support for the measure she have announce this afternoon . on that key mission of ensure that student pay a fair price and get a good return for their university education , do she agree that more institution should follow the example of the University of Buckingham , which offer fantastic two - year undergraduate degree with staggered start point throughout the year ? yes . the University of Buckingham have take an excellent leadership position and its two - year degree be very much welcome by many people . we will introduce the lifelong loan entitlement , which will revolutionise how and when people go to university , what type of course they take , for what period of time , and how they make those decision over their entire career and lifetime . many of my constituent study or have obtain degree from Harper Adams University , just up the road . those degree be at the cutting edge of agriculture and the key challenge face all of we , which be how to feed the planet in a sustainable way . their degree and the likely career they go into be classify by the Office for National Statistics as " unprofessional " . will the Secretary of State consider review the datum and take a really hard look at how those occupation be classified , because some of my constituent would miss out on a really important opportunity to do a high - class and important degree ? I thank the hon . Lady . Harper Adams University be a fantastic university . it do a fantastic range of course , more and more look at agri - tech , the technology within agriculture . I be sure it offer fantastic high quality to its student . there have be discussion about the profession and how the data be organise , so I will look at that . a number have raise that concern , not just those in agriculture . it seem absolutely right to I that those who choose to go to university should expect a good - quality , good - value education they can put to good use throughout their life . my right hon . friend mention apprenticeship . will she say a little more about what we can do to ensure parity of esteem between degree and apprenticeship route ? I thank my hon . friend for all her support and I know she be a keen proponent of apprenticeship in her area . a lot of it be now about awareness — the apprenticeship be fantastic ; I know 35 year ago that they be fantastic , but I think now everybody know how fantastic they be — through put they on UCAS and , from next year , have people able to apply through UCAS . we will also have a centralised site , so that all the apprenticeship be together and people can look at the vast array of career they can access — 670 different route into pretty much every career you can think of . it be about awareness . I thank all my hon . friend who have apprenticeship fair and do a lot to make people aware of these fantastic choice . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement outline that university course which fail to deliver good outcome , with high dropout rate and poor employment prospect , will be subject to strict control . that be great news for family who struggle to pay the money for course which end up with no benefit . what discussion have she have with the university in Northern Ireland , Queen ' s University Belfast and Ulster University ? will she confirm that this approach will be UK - wide , and that the postal and trade sea border will not extend to an education sea border ? I think the hon . Gentleman know that this policy be devolve , but I work very closely with my ministerial counterpart in all devolve nation . we share information and good practice , and there be collaborative discussion , too . I will make sure I share this with they , as well . I whole - heartedly support what the Secretary of State say today . do she agree that degree should provide value for money and lead to well employment prospect and career development , as thankfully happen with my study politic at Nottingham Trent University , not just a certificate and a debt , as develop under the previous Labour Administration who introduce fee and then do their good to devalue they ? my hon . friend be right . labour have flip - flop on fee , with several different policy in that area . we be fully commit to build up our university high education sector and we continue to do that . it be admire across the world , but it be most important that every degree be a quality degree that lead to good outcome . the Secretary of State be right : the Labour party have not just flip - flop on its position on tuition fee , but be now come across as not want parent and young people to have the good possible information about their option . I be work with the think - tank Policy Exchange on reform the apprenticeship levy . as it have identify , if the public sector apprenticeship target of 2 . 8 % be meet in all area , we could create 25 , 000 additional apprenticeship . will my right hon . friend look at that and at whether we can change the procurement contract rule , because we will need these new opportunity as we go forward ? as my hon . friend know , I fully support give more and more people access to apprenticeship . we be currently spend 99 . 6 % of the budget , which do not leave much room for further flexibility over and above what we have already introduce . the Labour party ' s policy of halve the apprenticeship levy will result only in few opportunity : it be a terrible policy and they should flip that policy , because it be a flop . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . rise — be your point of order on the same subject , Sir James ? indicate assent . in that case , I will come to you after I have hear the first one . this evening a Committee be mean to discuss the draft Postal Packets ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2023 , which relate to part of the implementation of the Windsor framework agreement . the Delegated Legislation Committee have already criticise the Government for the way in which they have rush these regulation , for the lack of information give , and for their inability to answer the question that it have ask about the legislation . today the Government decide that half the Conservative Members on the Committee , who be select and approve by this House , be to be remove because it be feel that they might be too critical and ask too many question . be it in order for Committee member who have be select by the House to be remove in this manner , especially when that be design to stifle debate and when , indeed , one can only conclude that the Government ' s action would make the north korean leader blush at the lack of democratic process ? I be not sure about that . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I be one of those who be throw off the Committee . I have be ask by the House to join it , and I do the right thing in review the paperwork . at the outset , I do not know that the draft Postal Packets ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2023 be particularly controversial , but when I have do the research and find that they be , I tell my Whip that I have some concern . all the consultation have come out against the legislation , the Democratic Unionist party be concern about it , and it do not deliver on Brexit . I say that I would probably want to probe and query it — as be my right as a Member of Parliament — and perhaps even vote against it . I be ask whether I would like to be replace ; I say no . I be ask whether I would like to take the week off ; I say no . this morning I find that I have be replace because the Government have think that the sitting might continue for as long as 90 minute , and that that might be inconvenient for I , so they have find someone who could take the time . I then discover that other hon . member be in the same position . this will go on for the full 90 minute : we will make sure of that . I suspect that other member who be in the Chamber will be present . may I ask you two question , Mr Speaker ? first , can time be find for we to debate this substantive issue , which ride a coach and horse through Brexit , on the Floor of the House ? secondly , have you receive any indication from Ministers that they will not be introduce the statutory instrument at 6 pm ? far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I do not want this to continue for too long . I do need to answer . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will be brief . I will be brief , Mr Speaker . the member of the Committee be nominate by the Committee of Selection in the normal way last week . so far so good , but when I check with the Chairman of the Committee of Selection , I learn that he have not be inform of the change , which have be make by the Whips and not by the Committee . this be basically a sixth - form politic stunt , which come about because the Government fear that the people concern would vote against that element of the Windsor framework . why have our Government be reduce to this ? rise — I be now go to bring in Gavin Robinson — but I think we all know the answer , by the way . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . clearly the purpose of a Delegated Legislation Committee be to fast - track matter that contain no controversy , and this exchange alone would suggest that there be issue worthy of exploration . we have hear the suggestion that the Committee would sit for 90 minute , but we know that within two hour the Chamber will be incredibly busy with Divisions . there be no practical or reasonable prospect of the Committee ' s deal substantively with these issue affect the Windsor framework . I should appreciate it , Sir , if you could deal with that in your response . rise — finally , I call Mr Wragg . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . could you confirm that any Member be entitle to go along to a Delegated Legislation Committee to speak ? you have answer it . I think all those who raise the point of order know the real answer without I go into it ; I be grateful to at least two of they for give I notice . although I accept that it can cause inconvenience , I can confirm that late change to the membership of Delegated Legislation Committees can be make in the way that have be describe . in any case , any Member of the House , whether nominated or not , may attend and speak at any meeting of a Delegated Legislation Committee . that may help , but the member concern do not need I to give the answer . they will know or can think about the reason why they be not on the Committee . the answer to the two question from the hon . member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) be no and no . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I hope this be slightly less controversial . so do I ! I feel I be let people down when it come to drama . Mr Speaker , have you have any notice from the Government of any intended statement , either write or speak , about the future of the regulation of " buy now , pay later " lender ? some 8 million people in this country be struggle to pay a " buy now , pay later " bill because they be borrow to fund the effect of inflation and the cost of living crisis . they have no protection from the financial ombudsman . in 2020 , the Government agree to legislate on the matter and we have be wait since then for regulation . yet now there be press report — not report to this House — suggest that the whole thing be go to be scrap and rethought , leave million of people open to harm from illegal loan shark . what notice have you have of the matter , Mr Speaker ? I have not have any such indication from the Government . I be sure that the hon . Lady ' s point will have be note on the Government Benches . I hope they will be take on board . let we see where we go from there . Illegal Migration Bill Consideration of Lords message Clause 1 - introduction I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1b , 7b and 90d . with this it will be convenient to discuss : lord amendment 9B , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 23b , and Government motion to disagree . amendment 36a and 36b , and Government motion to insist , and Lords amendment 36C and 36d , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 33b , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 56b , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 102b , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 103B , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 107B and 107C , and Government motion to disagree . last Tuesday , this House vote 18 time — more time than on any other day on any other piece of legislation — and 18 time it vote to support this Bill . will the Minister give way ? I will first make a few opening remark . this House send back to the House of Lords its 20 amendment to the Bill , many of which simply drive a coach and horse through the fabric of the legislation . we bring forward reasonable amendment where it be sensible to do so and it be disappointing , to say the least , the some of those have be reject . I welcome the fact that the 20 issue that we debate last week have now be whittle down to nine , but the issue now before we be whether the clearly express view of this House , the elect Chamber — not just in the vote last week , but throughout the early passage of the Bill — should prevail . we believe that inaction be not an option , that we must stop the boat and that the Bill be a key part of our plan to do just that . the message and the mean must be absolutely clear and unambiguous : if people come to the UK illegally , they will not be able to stay here . instead , they will be detain and return to their home country or remove to a safe third country . there be simply no point in pass legislation that do not deliver a credible deterrent or provide the mean to back it up with effective and swift enforcement power . we can not accept amendment that provide for exception , qualification and loophole that would simply perpetuate the current cycle of delay and endless late and repeat legal challenge to removal . I listen carefully to the debate in the other place , but no new argument be forthcoming and certainly no credible alternative be provide . I thoroughly endorse what my right hon . Friend say . this be a matter of extreme national interest , as be reflect in the vote of constituent throughout the country . they feel very strongly about these matter . do he not agree that it be time for their lordship to take note of the fact that the british people want this legislation to go through ? they want progress , give the extreme difficulty this be present to the british people . I strongly endorse my hon . friend ' s comment . this be an issue of the high importance to the people we serve in this place . of course there be a legitimate role for the other place in scrutinise legislation , but now be the time to move forward and pass this law to enable we to stop the boat . I wonder whether my right hon . friend have note the remark of Lord Clarke , who be not a particularly vicious right - wing creature . he say this Bill be entirely necessary and that we have to get on with it . I also wonder whether my right hon . friend have look at today ' s remark by Lord Heseltine . Lord Clarke and Lord Heseltine seem to have come up with a sensible option . we should go ahead with this Bill . we have to have much well european co - operation and , really , we have to build a wall around Europe . [ interruption . ] and we have to do much more — this be what the opposition might like — in term of a Marshall plan to try to remove the condition of sheer misery that cause people to want to leave these country in the first place . I read the remark of the noble Lord Clarke , and I entirely agree with his point , which be that , have listen to the totality of the debate in the House of Lords , he have not hear a single credible alternative to the Government ' s plan . for that reason alone , it be important to support the Government . I also agree with Lord Clarke ' s broad point that this policy should not be the totality of our response to this challenge . deterrence be an essential part of the plan , but we also need to work closely with our partner in Europe and far upstream . one initiative that the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I have seek to pursue in recent month be to ensure that the United Kingdom be a strategic partner to each and every country that share our determination to tackle this issue , from Turkey and Tunisia to France and Belgium . I completely agree with my right hon . friend . I believe that the Bill should go through , as we have to do something about the death in the channel , which be an important moral purpose . I bring my right hon . friend back to Lord Randall ' s amendment on modern slavery . we agree quite a lot on this issue , and the Government have say that they will do stuff in guidance , so Lord Randall have take the word speak by my right hon . friend at the Dispatch Box and put they on the face of the Bill — this amendment do exactly what my right hon . Friend promise the Government would do in guidance . the Government have not issue the guidance in detail , which be why the amendment be make . why would we vote against the amendment today when my right hon . friend ' s word and prescription be now on the face of the Bill ? first , the Lords amendment on modern slavery go far by make the scheme , as we see it , much more difficult to establish . there be a number of reason but , in particular , we think the complexity of the issue require it to be provide for in statutory guidance rather than on the face of the Bill , in line with my assurance make on the Floor of the House . one of those assurance be particularly challenging to put in statutory guidance — where an incident have take place in the United Kingdom , rather than an individual be traffic here — and that be the point Lord Randall helpfully try to bring forward . we be clear that the process I have set out should be set out in statutory guidance , because the wording of the amendment be open to abuse by those look to exploit loophole . those arrive in small boat would seek to argue that they have be traffic into the UK and that the 30 - day grace period should apply to they , on the basis that they qualify as soon as they reach UK territorial water . the propose provision be , for that reason , operationally impossible and serve only to create another loophole that would render the swift removal we seek impossible or impractical . the statutory guidance can well describe and qualify this commitment , by make it clear that the exploitation must have occur once the person have spend a period of time within the UK and not immediately they get off the small boat in Kent . for that reason , we consider it well to place this on a statutory footing as guidance rather than put it in the Bill . the Democratic Unionist party be concerned about the trafficking of child and young people . my question be a simple one . we see economic migrant who be fit and healthy but none the less make that journey , and we see those who have have to leave their country because they have be persecute , discriminate against or be subject to brutal violence , or because their family member have be murder . my party and I want to be assure that those who flee persecution have protection within this law , because we do not see that they do . we believe that they do , because at the heart of this scheme be the principle that if an individual come to the UK illegally on a small boat , they will be remove back home if it be safe to do that — if they be go to a safe home country such as Albania . in determine that the country be safe , for example , as in the case of Albania , we would have seek specific assurance from it , if require . alternatively , they will be remove to a safe third country , such as Rwanda , where , again we would have seek sufficient assurance that an individual would be well - treat there . as the hon . Gentleman can see in the court at the moment , those assurance will be test . so it be not the intention of the UK Government to expose any genuine victim of persecution to difficulty by remove they either back home and , in the process , enable their refoulement , or to a country in which they would be unsafe . we want to establish a significant deterrent to stop people come here in the first place , bear in mind that the overwhelming majority of the individual we be talk about who would be catch by the Bill be already in a place of safety . they be in France , which be clearly a safe country that have a fully function asylum system . let I take the right hon . Gentleman back to the criticism he be make of the other place , because if the elect House be about to break international law , it be entirely fitting that the other place should try to prevent that from happen . the Minister have stand at the Dispatch Box tell we that this Bill be about deterrence , whereas the Home Office ' s own impact assessment have say : " the Bill be a novel and untested scheme , and it be therefore uncertain what level of deterrence impact it will have . " as a raft of child ' s charity have point out , once routine child detention be end in 2011 there be no proportional increase in child claim asylum . so will he come clean and accept that this Bill absolutely will have the effect , even if it do not have the intention , of mean that people try to escape persecution will not be able to come here , because there be not sufficient safe and legal route ? I be not sure exactly what the hon . Lady ' s question be . if it be about access to safe and legal route , let I be clear , as I have in numerous debate on this topic , that since 2015 the UK have welcome more than 500 , 000 individual here — it be near to 550 , 000 now — for humanitarian purpose . that be a very large number . the last statistic I see show that we be behind only the United States , Canada and Sweden on our global United Nations - manage safe and legal route , and we be one of the world ' s big country for resettlement scheme . that be a very proud record . the great inhibitor today to the UK do more on safe and legal route be the number of people come across the channel illegally on small boat , take up capacity in our asylum and immigration system . she know that only too well , because we have discuss on a number of occasion one of the most concern symptom of this issue , which be unaccompanied child who be have to stay in a Home Office - procure hotel near to her constituency because local authority do not have capacity to flow those individual into safe and loving foster care as quickly as we would wish . that issue be exactly emblematic of the problem that we be try to fix . if we can stop the small boat , we can do more , as a country , and be an even great force for good in the world . will the Minister set out how my constituent will be protect ? he be albanian and have be subject to modern slavery by gang from Albania . he have three bullet hole in his body and , if he return , perhaps those gang will give he more . how will he be protect ? the exist arrangement that we have secure with Albania — incidentally , Albania be a signatory to the european convention against traffic — enable we to safely return somebody home to Albania , with specific assurance to prevent they be retrafficke to the United Kingdom and to enable they to be support appropriately upon arrival . on the broad issue of modern slavery , the Bill make a number of important protection when we establish the scheme . if they be party to a law enforcement investigation , their removal from the country will be stay . we have say that we will bring forward statutory guidance , give they a 30 - day period , ally to the period set out in ECAT , to come forward and work with law enforcement , which be extendable if that enforcement activity go on for some time . we would then only remove that person either back home to a safe country , such as Albania , or to a country , such as Rwanda , where we have put in place appropriate procedure to ensure that that Government , in turn , look after they . I point the hon . Lady to the judgment in the Court of Appeal that make some criticism of the Government ' s approach , but do not say that the arrangement in Rwanda with respect to modern slave be inappropriate ; it support the Government in that regard . we will clearly put in place appropriate procedure to ensure that victim , such as the one she refer to , be properly support . many opponent of the Bill seem to support uncapped safe and legal route . the reality of that would be that potentially over 1 million people could get the ability to come here . do the Minister agree that those propose that should be open and honest about it , and explain what the dramatic consequence would be for public service and community cohesion in this country ? I completely agree . anyone who feel that this country have sufficient resource to welcome significant further number of individual at the present time , should look at the inbox of the Minister for Immigration . it be full of email and letter from member of the public , local authority and member of Parliament , on both side of the House , complain that they do not want to see further dispersal accommodation and worry about gp surgery appointment , pressure on local public service and further hotel . I understand all those concern , which be why we need an honest debate about the issue . that be why , at the heart of the Bill , there be not only a tough deterrent position for new illegal entrant , but a consultation on safe and legal route , where we specifically ask local authority , " what be your true capacity ? " if we bring forward far safe and legal route , they will be root in capacity in local authority , so that those individual be not destine to be in hotel for month or year , but go straight to housing and support in local authority . that must be the right way for we to live up to our international obligation , rather than the present situation that , all too often , be performative here , and then there be major problem down the road . let I reply to issue other than modern slavery in the amendment before we . on the issue of detention , we believe that a necessary part of the scheme , provide for in the Bill , be that there be strong power . where those subject to removal be not detain , the prospect of be able to effect removal be significantly reduce , give the likelihood of a person abscond , especially towards the end of the process . we have make change to the provision for pregnant woman , which I be pleased have be accept by the Lords , and unaccompanied child , but it be necessary for the power to cover family group , as to do otherwise would introduce a gape hole in the scheme , as adult migrant and the most disgusting people smuggler would seek to profit from migrant and look to co - opt unaccompanied child to bogus family group to avoid detention . that not only prevent the removal of the adult , but present a very real safeguarding risk to child . on unaccompanied child , we stand by the amendment agree by the House last week . they provide a clear differentiation between the arrangement for the detention of adult and those for the detention of unaccompanied child . the amendment agree by this House provide for judicial oversight after eight day ' detention where that detention be for the purpose of removal . on the standard of accommodation , I have be clear that unaccompanie child , include those whose age be dispute , will be detain only in age - appropriate accommodation , and that exist secondary legislation — the Detention Centre Rules 2001 — set out important principle govern the standard of such accommodation . last week , some member ask whether unaccompanied child would also receive age - appropriate care while in detention . the answer to that be an emphatic yes . the operating standard for immigration removal centre contain provision around the treatment of child , include requirement on the education and play facility that must be provide for child . I thank my right hon . friend for make it clear that , if there be any doubt about the age of an unaccompanied child , they will be treat as a child . I also thank he for say that , if a child be detain , it will be in an age - appropriate centre . however , on the issue of what be age - appropriate , I will just say that I have look at the operating standard to which he refer . it be an 82 - page document . it have no mention of unaccompanied child . it talk about who look after the lock and hinge and where the tool and the ladder be to be store , but there be nothing about how we keep these child happy , healthy and safe from harm . I point he instead to the guidance for child ' s care home and ask he gently if we could update the rule on detention centre to make sure that they look more like the rule we have for safeguard child in care home . my right hon . friend make a number of important point . the guidance be very detailed , but I be sure that it would benefit from update . therefore , the point that she have make and that other right hon . and hon . member have make in the past will be note by Home Office official . as we operationalise this policy , we will be careful to take those into consideration . we be all united in our belief that those young people who be in our care need to be treat appropriately . let I turn now to the Lords amendment on modern slavery — I hope that I have answer the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . this seek to enshrine in the Bill some of the assurance that I provide in my remark last week in respect of people who be exploit in the UK . however , for the reason that I have just describe , we think that that be well do through statutory guidance . in fact , it would be impractical , if not impossible , to do it through the Bill . the point that my right hon . friend make early be that , somehow , those people will be able to get into the UK and make a false claim . however , the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 already provide for that , so anyone find to have make a false claim will be disqualify , and disqualify quite quickly . the critical thing be to prosecute the trafficker . that way , we can stop they traffic more people on the boat . my worry be that this provision will put off many people from give evidence and co - operate with the police for fear that they may still be overridden and send abroad while they be do it and then be pick up by the trafficker . do he give any credence to the fear that this may end up reduce the number of prosecution of trafficker as a result ? I understand my right hon . friend ' s position , and it be right that he be vocalise it , but we do not believe that what he say be likely . the provision that we have make in the statutory guidance that I have announce will give an individual 30 day from the positive reasonable ground decision to confirm that they will co - operate with an investigation in relation to their exploitation . that should give they a period of time to recover , to come forward and to work with law - enforcement . that be a period of time align with the provision of ECAT , so we rely on the decision of the drafter of ECAT to choose 30 day rather than another , potentially long , period . that be an extendable period , so where a person continue to co - operate with such an investigation , they will continue to be entitle to the support and the protection of the national referral mechanism for a long period . I just want to make it clear that under the new regulation , the Secretary of State can still feasibly decide that , even if someone be co - operate , they do not need to remain in the UK for that . that be the critical bit : they live under the fear that they can be move somewhere else to give that evidence . do the Minister not agree that that will put a lot of people off give evidence ? I hope that that be not bear out . it be worth remember that we will not remove anyone to a country in which they would be endanger . we would be remove that person either back to their home country , if we consider it safe to do so , usually because the country be an ECAT signatory and have provision in place , or to a safe third country such as Rwanda , where once again we will have put in place significant provision to support the individual . I hope that that provide those individual with the confidence to come forward and work with law enforcement to bring the trafficker to book . I be particularly interested in the arrival of unaccompanied child in this country , because obviously the Minister have tighten up the eight - day period for they on exit . I believe that he just agree with I that the standard for age - appropriate accommodation in detention centre need to be update to look more like those for child ' s home . be he prepared to concede that no unaccompanied child should be put in such a detention centre until that update of the rule have be undertake ? I understand the point that my right hon . friend make , but I be not sure that that be necessary , because the Detention Centre Rules 2001 be very explicit in the high standard expect . they set the overall standard , and underlie they will no doubt be further guidance and support for individual who be work within the system . if there be work to be do on the latter point , we should do that and take account of her view and those of other who be expert in this field , but the Detention Centre Rules be very explicit in set high overarching standard for this form of accommodation . that be exactly what we would seek to live up to ; in fact , it would be unlawful if the Government do not . in a child ' s home , we would expect there to be the right to access a social worker and advocacy , and for the child to have the care that they particularly need . we would expect Ofsted to oversee that , not prison inspector . I be grateful for those point . social worker will clearly be at the heart of all this work , as they be today . every setting in which young people be house by the Home Office , whether it be an unaccompanied asylum - seek child hotel , which we mention early , or another facility , have a strong contingent of qualified social worker who support those young people . I be certain that social worker will be at the heart of develop the policy and then , in time , operationalise it . their lordship have attempt but fail to smooth the rough edge of their wreck amendment on legal proceeding , but we need be in no doubt that they be still wreck amendment . they would tie every removal up in knot and never - end legal proceeding . it be still the case that Lords amendment 1b would incorporate the various convention list in the amendment into our domestic law . an amendment shoehorn into the Bill be not the right place to make such a significant constitutional change . it be therefore right that we continue to reject it . will the Minister give way ? I will not , because I need to close my remark ; this be a short debate . lord amendment 9B continue to undermine a core component of the Bill : that asylum and relevant human right claim be declare inadmissible . the Lords amendment would simply encourage illegal migrant to game the system and drag thing out for as long as possible , in the hope that they would become eligible for asylum here . lord amendment 23b bring we back to the issue of the removal of LGBT people to certain country . the Government be a strong defender of LGBT right across the globe . there be no question of send a national of one of the country list in the amendment back to their home country if they fear persecution base on their sexuality . the Bill be equally clear that if an LGBT person be to be issue with a removal notice to a country where they fear persecution on such ground , or indeed on any other ground , they could make a serious harm suspensive claim and they would not be remove — will the Minister give way ? I will not , because I need to bring my remark to a close now . they would not be remove until that claim and any appeal have be determine . as I say previously , the concern underpin the amendment be misplace and the protection need be already in the Bill . on safe and legal route , Lords amendment 102b bring we to the question of when new such route come into operation . the amendment again seek to enshrine a date in the Bill itself . I have now say at the Dispatch Box on two occasion that we aim to implement any propose new route as soon as be practical , and in any event by the end of 2024 . I have make that commitment on behalf of the Government and , that be the case , there be simply no need for the amendment . we should not delay the enactment of this Bill over such a non - issue . Lords amendment 103B , table by the Opposition , relate to the National Crime Agency . again , it be a non - issue and the amendment be either performative or bear out of ignorance and a lack of grasp of the detail . the NCA ' s function already cover tackle organise immigration crime , and man and woman in that service work day in , day out to do just that . there be no need to change the statute underlie the organisation . finally , we have Lords amendment 107B , which be put forward by the Archbishop of Canterbury . this country ' s proud record of provide a safe haven for more than half a million people since 2015 be the great evidence that we need that the UK be already take a lead international role in tackle the refugee crisis . this government be work tirelessly with international and domestic partner to tackle human trafficking , and continue to support overseas programme . we will work with international partner and bring forward proposal for additional safe and legal route where necessary . however well - intentione , this amendment remain unnecessary . as I say to his grace the Archbishop , if the Church wish to play a further role in resettlement , it could join our community sponsorship scheme — an ongoing and global safe and legal route that , as far as I be aware , the Church of England be not currently engage with . this elect House vote to give the Bill a second and Third Reading . last Tuesday , it vote no few than 17 time in succession to reject the Lords amendment and an 18th time to endorse the Government ' s amendment in lieu relate to the detention of unaccompanied child . it be time for the clear view of the elect House to prevail . I invite all right hon . and hon . member to stand with the Government in uphold the will of the democratically elect Commons , to support the Government motion and to get on with secure our border and stop the boat . on Tuesday , I describe the way in which this government have " take a sledgehammer to our asylum system " . — [ Official Report , 11 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 218 . ] I outline the massive and far - reach cost and consequence of 13 year of Tory incompetence and indifference . I describe this big backlog Bill as a " shambolic farce " that will only compound the chaos that minister have create . I urge the Government to accept the amendment propose by the other place and to adopt Labour ' s pragmatic , realistic and workable five - point plan to stop the boat and fix our broken asylum system . I set out how the Bill ' s unworkability centre on the fact that it order the Home Secretary to detain asylum seeker where there be nowhere to detain they . it prevent she from process and return fail asylum seeker across the channel to their country of origin , instead force she to return they to a third country such as Rwanda . however , Rwanda can take only 0 . 3 % of those who come here on small boat last year . the Rwanda plan be neither credible nor workable , because the tiny risk of be send to Kigali will not deter those who have already risk life and limb to make dangerous journey across the continent . yet here we be again today , respond to the realisation that , in their typically arrogant and tin - eared fashion , Ministers be once again refuse to listen . they be once again close their eye and ear to the reality of what be happen around they and choose to carry on drive the car straight into a brick wall . but we on the Labour Benches refuse to give up . we shall continue in our attempt to persuade the Government to come to their sense . I shall seek to do that today by set out why the argument that the Immigration Minister have make against the amendment from the other place be both fundamentally flawed and dangerously counterproductive . if the principle of removal to a safe third country be not an adequate deterrent , why be that principle the flagship of the last Labour Government ' s immigration policy in the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ? what be the point of section 94 — its most controversial provision — if it be not about the swift removal of fail asylum seeker ? the crucial point be that for a deterrent to be effective , it have to be credible . a deterrent base on a 0 . 3 % risk of be send to Rwanda be completely and utterly incredible . the only deterrent that work be a comprehensive return deal with mainland Europe . if someone know that , be they to come here on a small boat , they would be send back to mainland Europe , they will not come and they will not pay € 5 , 000 to the people smuggler . the only way to get that deal be to have a sensible and pragmatic negotiation with the European Union base on quid pro quo — give and take . that be the fundamental reality of the situation in which we find ourselves , but unfortunately those on the conservative Benches keep close their ear to that reality . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way again — I will not take long . do he not accept that , in reality , there be no such thing as a return deal with mainland Europe ? the reason the Dublin convention be such a disaster and never result in we remove more people than we take in be that it be so incredibly difficult to get european country to accept removal and make that happen . it be just an unworkable suggestion . surely the hon . Lady see the direct connection between we crash out of the Dublin regulation because of the utterly botch Brexit of the Government she speak for , and the number of small boat crossing start to skyrocket . there be a direct correlation between crash out of the Dublin regulation and skyrocket small boat crossing . I hope that she will look at the datum and realise the truth of the matter . we have have this conversation before . the hon . Gentleman know that when we be cover by Dublin — before we come out of it through Brexit — there be more than 8 , 000 request for people to be deport back to an EU country , and only 108 of those request , or about 1 . 5 % , be actually grant . so there be not some golden era when it work under Dublin ; it be not work then , and it certainly will not work now . the hon . Gentleman be right , we have have this conversation before , and he consistently refuse to listen to the fact that the Dublin regulation act as a deterrent , so the number that he talk about be small . the number of small boat crossing be small when we be part of the Dublin regulation . we leave the Dublin regulation , and now the number be large — it be not rocket science . there be a clear connection , a correlation , a causal link between the two . the hon . Gentleman be be very generous with his time . the reason the small boat problem have grow exponentially be that we deal with the lorry issue . we close the loophole when it come to lorry and the channel tunnel in particular , and that be why people be now resort to small boat . it be nothing to do with Dublin . surely those be the fact . I simply say to the right hon . and learn Gentleman that last year , we have 45 , 000 people come on small boat and goodness know how many on lorry — of course , those come by clandestine mean in the back of a lorry be far more difficult to detect than those come on small boat , so the small boat crisis be , by definition , far more visible . it be true that that juxtaposition and the new arrangement have have a positive impact , but we still do not know how many be come . I have be to camp in Calais and speak to many who be plan to come on lorry rather than on small boat — not least because it be a far cheap alternative . the reality be that a very large number of people be come to our country through irregular mean , but it be also clear that that number be significantly small when we be part of the Dublin regulation . that be because it be a comprehensive deterrent , compare with the utterly insignificant power of the Rwanda programme as a deterrent . will the hon . member give way ? I will make a little bit of progress , and then I will allow the hon . gentleman to intervene . I will turn first to Lords amendment 1b , intend to ensure that the Bill be consistent with international law , which Labour fully support . last week , the Minister deem the same amendment unnecessary , because : " it go without say that the Government obey our international obligation , as we do with all piece of legislation . " — [ Official Report , 11 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 198 . ] that comment be typical of the Minister ' s approach . he be constantly try to calm his colleague ' nerve by fob they off with that sort of soothe statement , but we all know that he do not really believe a word of it . he know that the very first page of the Bill state that the Government be unable to confirm that it comply with our legal obligation . he also know that the Government be more than happy to break international law — just look at how they play fast and loose with the Northern Ireland protocol . if the Minister really think that we will simply take his deeply misleading word at face value and trust he and his colleague to uphold our legal obligation , he have another think come . order . I think that the hon . Gentleman do not mean to use the phrase " deeply misleading " . know that he be an honourable gentleman , I suggest that he might want to use a slightly different phrase — " inadvertently misleading " , perhaps ? I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . would " misleadingly soothe " work ? it will do for the time be . as always , Madam Deputy Speaker , you be very gracious . the late , great Denis Healey famously advise that when you be in a hole , you should stop dig . [ hon . member : " quite right ! " ] hang on . he would certainly have approve of Lords amendment 9B , which go right to the heart of the fundamental unworkability of this big backlog Bill and seek to prevent it from become the indefinite limbo Bill . let we be clear : the current state of affair represent both a mental health crisis for asylum seeker and a financial crisis for british taxpayer , who be already shoulder an asylum bill that be seven time high than it be in 2010 , at £ 3 . 6 billion a year . indeed , the mid - range estimate for the hotel bill alone be great than the late round of level - up funding , and three time high than the entire budget for tackle homelessness in this country . the only people who benefit from the inadmissibility provision in the Bill be the people smuggler and human trafficker , who be laugh all the way to the bank . as such , it be essential that this House vote in favour of Lord German ' s amendment , which seek to ensure that inadmissibility can be apply to an asylum seeker only for a period of six month if they have not be remove to another country . a major concern throughout the passage of the Bill have be its utter disregard for the mental wellbeing of unaccompanied child . many of those child will have have to see their love one suffer unspeakable act of violence , yet despite the Government ' s concession , the Bill will mean that when they arrive in the UK , they will be detain like criminal for up to eight day before they can apply for bail . we be clear that that be unacceptable , and be in no doubt that the Government ' s amendment be yet another example of their liking for performative cruelty . we urge the Minister to accept the compromise of 72 hour contain in Lords amendment 36C and 36d . will the hon . member give way ? sorry , I mean to let the hon . gentleman in early . I thank the hon . member for give way . the good thing for any person ' s mental health , especially child , be to not put they on a dangerous small boat across the channel . do the hon . Member agree that the good thing for any child ' s mental health be for they to not make that dangerous journey , but instead use one of the many legal and safe route ? this Bill and its clause will make sure that few child make that awful journey . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that the only people who benefit from the small boat crossing be the people smuggler and human trafficker — that have to be bring to an end . where we fundamentally disagree be about the mean . labour believe that the deterrence of the Rwanda scheme simply will not work , for the reason I have already set out , and that the solution lie far more in pragmatism and quiet diplomacy , work with international partner to get the return deal that I talk about , than in all the performative cruelty that be at the heart of this Bill . likewise , the Government should show some humility and support Lords amendment 33b , which state that accompany child should be liable for detention only for up to 96 hour . this be a fair and reasonable compromise , give that Lords amendment 33 initially set the limit at 72 hour . while we be on the subject of child , how utterly astonishing and deeply depress it be to hear the Minister stand at the Dispatch Box last week and justify the erasure of Disney cartoon on the basis of their not be age - appropriate . quite apart from the fact that his nasty , bully , performative cruelty will have absolutely no effect whatsoever in stop the boat , it have since emerge that more than 9 , 000 of the child who pass through that building in the year to March 2023 be under the age of 14 . give that a significant proportion of those 9 , 000 would have be young still , I just wonder whether the Minister would like to take this opportunity to withdraw his comment about the age - appropriateness of those cartoon . indicate dissent . no . well , there we have it . this whole sorry episode really be a new low for this Minister and for the shameful , callous Government he represent . we also support Lords amendment 23b , a compromise in lieu of Lords amendment 23 , which seek to protect LGBT asylum seeker from be remove to a country that persecute they for their sexuality or gender . the Minister last week claim that that be unnecessary because there be an appeal process , but why on earth would he put asylum seeker and the british taxpayer through an expensive and time - consume appeal process when he could just rule out this scenario from the outset ? nothing illustrate more clearly the indifference of this Government towards the most vulnerable people in society than their treatment of woman be traffic into our country for prostitution . I have already describe this Bill as a trafficker charter — a gift to the slave driver and the pimp — because it make it hard for victim to come forward and therefore more difficult for the police to prosecute criminal . the Immigration Minister last week repeat the false claim that the UK Statistics Authority recently rebuke he for . it be his second rebuke this year by our national statistic watchdog for inaccurate claim make to this House . thankfully , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who be not in her place today , call he out on it . she correctly point out that the proportion of small boat migrant claim to be victim of modern slavery stand at just 7 % . this be a profoundly embarrassing moment for the Minister , but I do hope he will now swallow his pride , listen to the wise counsel he be receive from those on the Benches behind he and accept Lords amendment 56b in the name of Lord Randall . the hon . member be right that I misspoke when cite those statistic on an early occasion , but in fact the statistic be bad than I say to the House . what I say be that , of foreign national offender who be in the detain estate on the eve of their departure , over 70 % make use of modern slavery legislation to put in a last - minute claim and delay their removal . however , it be not just fno ; it be also small boat arrival . so the point I be make be even more pertinent , and it be one that he should try to answer . what would he do to stop 70 % of people in the detain estate , who we be try to get out of the country , put in a frivolous claim at the last minute ? Sir Robert Chote of the UK Statistics Authority say clearly that the figure be only 20 % , not 70 % . I do not know whether we want to invite Sir Robert to clarify those point himself , but the rebuke the Minister receive from the UK Statistics Authority be pretty clear . it be vitally important that the Minister ' s position on this be not use as the basis for a policy that could cause profound harm to vulnerable woman while feed criminality in the United Kingdom . I therefore urge he to reflect on what he be try to achieve , the proportionality of his action and the unintended consequence he may be facilitate . Lords amendment 56b state that victim of trafficking who have be unlawfully exploit in the UK should be protect from the automatic duty to remove and should continue to be able to access the support currently available to they , but only for the duration of the statutory recovery period , which be set by the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 at 30 day . on Second Reading , the right hon . member for Maidenhead argue that the Bill as draft would " drive a coach and horse through the Modern Slavery Act , deny support to those who have be exploit and enslave and , in do so , make it much hard to catch and stop the trafficker and slave driver . " — [ Official Report , 28 March 2023 ; Vol . 730 , c . 886 . ] we strongly agree with her concern and wholeheartedly support Lords amendment 56b , which I remind the Minister go no far than to maintain the status quo of the basic protection and support currently available to all victim of trafficking and exportation . I will now turn to the amendment that be underpin by Labour ' s five - point plan : end the dangerous small - boat crossing , defeat the criminal gang , clear the backlog , end extortionate hotel use , and fix the asylum system that the Conservatives have spend 13 year destroy . presumably it be the hon . Gentleman ' s most devout hope if he take power in 15 month ' time , but charming as he be , it be a mystery to I why he think when he ask President Macron to take these people back , he will do so . of course he win ' t ! nothing will happen . may I gently suggest that , if there be a Labour Government , they will quietly adopt this Bill once it be an Act ? I will come to that in my comment , but as the right hon . Gentleman will know , any negotiation require give and take , quid pro quo . as I say in response to one of his hon . friend , to get that deal with the European Union we of course have to do our bit and take our fair share , and that will be the negotiation that my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) will be lead on when he become Prime Minister of the United Kingdom , follow the next general election . we be determined that the National Crime Agency will be strengthen so that it can tackle the criminal gang upstream . too much focus by this Government have be on slash tent and puncture dinghy along the french coastline , whereas Labour have set out its plan for an elite unit in the NCA to work directly with Europol and Interpol . the late amendment from Lord Coaker , Lords amendment 103B , attempt to strengthen the NCA ' s authority , and we support it without reservation . we be also clear that there be a direct link between gain the return agreement that we desperately need with the EU , and create control and manage pathway to asylum , which would allow genuine refugee to reach the UK safely , particularly if they have family here . conservative member refuse to make that connection , but we know it be in the interest of the EU and France to strike a return deal with the UK , and dissuade the ten of thousand of asylum seeker who be flow through Europe and end up on the beach of Calais . the EU and its member state will never do a deal with the UK unless it be base on a give - and - take arrangement , whereby every country involve do its bit and share responsibility . on his visit to Calais , the hon . Gentleman will have meet people who be try to get to this country . do it strike he how utterly desperate many of they be , and how they be flee from war in Afghanistan , Libya , Iraq and other place ? do he think that we have to address the wide issue of the reason why people be flee and search for asylum , not just in Europe but all over the world ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman . as he rightly point out , the key point be that these people be already flee desperate situation and have risk life and limb to get as far as they have . the idea that a 0 . 3 % chance of be send to Rwanda act as a deterrent be clearly for the bird . in addition , he make important point about the need for international co - operation , and find solution to these problem alongside our partner across the channel . the hon . Gentleman clearly think that the Rwanda plan will not work or be a deterrent , but why not give it a go ? if he be so confident that it will not work , let it get through . it could have get through month ago , and he could have come back to the House and prove we wrong . at the moment it come across as if the hon . Gentleman and the Labour party be scared that it might work , and that be the problem . I suppose the answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question be that if it walk like a duck and quack like a duck , it probably be a duck , and the Rwanda plan be so clearly and utterly misconceive , misconstrue and counter - productive . Labour member like to vote for thing that be actually go to work , which be why we simply can not support that hare - brain scheme . with the Minister last week reiterate a deadline of December 2024 — 18 month from now — to lay out what safe and legal route might look like , and by state that those route will not deal with the challenge face Europe directly , he appear to be reduce the chance of get the return deal with the EU that we so urgently need . let we not forget that this Government send Britain tumble out of the Dublin regulation during their botch Brexit negotiation , and it be no surprise that small boat crossing have skyrocket since then . this government must prioritise get that return deal . we therefore support Lords amendment 102B , which demand that the Government get on with set out what these safe and legal route might look like , not only to provide control and capped pathway to sanctuary for genuine refugee , but to break that deadlock in the negotiation with the EU over return . I note that the Minister love to trot out his line about the Ukraine , Hong Kong and afghan resettlement scheme , but he neglect to mention that there be now thousand of homeless ukrainian family , and we have the travesty of thousand of loyal - to - Britain Afghans who be set to be throw on the street at the end of August . More than 2 , 000 Afghans be stick in Pakistan with the right to come here , but they be not be allow to do so . he simply must fix those resettlement scheme . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way , because this be an important point that all member of the House should appreciate . the no . 1 reason why we be struggle to bring to the UK those people in Pakistan — we would like to bring they here , because we have a moral and historical obligation to they — be that illegal immigrant on small boat have take all the capacity of local authority to house they . if the hon . Gentleman truly want to support those people , he would back this Bill , he would stop the boat , and then he would help we to bring those much - need people into the United Kingdom . it beggar belief that the Immigration Minister say that , when he speak for a party that have allow our backlog to get to 180 , 000 , cost £ 7 million a day in hotel . he should just get the processing system sort out . the Conservatives downgrade the seniority of caseworker and decision maker in 2013 and 2014 . surprise , surprise , productivity fall off a cliff , as do the quality of decision . that be the fundamental problem , but we have to recognise that these Afghans have stand shoulder to shoulder with our defence , diplomacy and development effort in Afghanistan , and we owe they a debt of honour and gratitude . do the hon . Gentleman know how many asylum seeker be house in his constituency , or would he like I to tell he ? it be none . there be no asylum seeker accommodate in Aberavon . if he would like we to bring in more people , whether on safe and legal route , or on scheme such as the afghan relocation and assistance policy , he should get on the phone to his local council and the Welsh Government this afternoon . the Minister be talk absolute nonsense . I be proud of the fact we have many Syrians in our constituency . we have Ukrainians in our welcome centre . discussion be ongoing between the Home Office and the Welsh Government . the incompetence of his Government mean that they be not manage to house they . Wales be ready to have that dialogue with the Home Office . I find it a shocking admission from the Minister — we be fight for the relative of people in Afghanistan whose life be at risk — that these Afghans be be block by he because he be not make available those safe route to bring they to constituency such as York , where we welcome refugee . I completely agree with my hon . friend . there be real concern about the safety and security of those Afghans now in Pakistan . it be possible that they will be send back . it be up to the Home Office to facilitate their transfer to the United Kingdom under ARAP and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , but like so many thing with this Home Office , it be just a catastrophic failure of management . in trot out the line about the scheme that I mention , the Minister conveniently ignore the fact that none of those scheme help those come from other high grant - rate country in the middle east and sub - Saharan Africa . neither he nor the Home Secretary have be able to answer question from their own Back Benchers on that precise point . the final point of our plan be to tackle migration flow close to the conflict zone where they arise through target our aid spending . that be a long - term mission , but it be no less important than any of the other step we need to take to meet these migration challenge . I therefore see no reason for the Government not to support Lords amendment 107b in the name of the Archbishop of Canterbury , which would instruct the Government to develop a 10 - year plan to manage migration . I have lose count of the number of time we have come to the Chamber to debate the Government ' s late madcap Bill or hare - brain scheme . not one of those Bills have help to stop a single boat , and the Government have send more Home Secretaries to Rwanda than they have asylum seeker . they be waste their own time and the time of the House , and they really be try the patience of the british people . it really be desperate stuff , and it have to stop . in stark contrast to the hopeless , aimless and utterly self - defeat thrashing around that have come to define the Government ' s approach to the asylum crisis , labour recognise that there be a way through : a route base on hard graft , common sense and quiet diplomacy . it come in the form of the Labour party ' s comprehensive plan , base on core principle , with a commitment to return asylum processing to the well manage , efficient , smooth - run system we have prior to the catastrophic change bring in by Conservative Ministers in 2013 , which downgrade decision maker and caseworker , lead to poor result . with that , we have a commitment to go far in fast - track application from low grant - rate country so that we can return those with no right to be here , and fast - track application from high grant - rate country so that genuine refugee can get on with their life and start contribute to our economy , enrich our society and culture . a third , key principle be the need for international co - operation , as I have set out . this be not rocket science ; it be just sensible , pragmatic , serious governance . it be work in the United States , where the Biden Administration be win the battle . they have introduce a combination of swift consequence for those who cross the border illegally ; orderly path and control on which migrant can apply for asylum and where they do so ; sensible , legal pathway for high grant - rate nation ; and strong co - operation with Mexico . the result be that they be bring number down significantly and quickly . the challenge be not over yet , and we would not see President Biden be foolish enough to go boast at the border , but that show that progress can be make . the Labour party be not interested in performative cruelty , chase headline or government by gimmick . we have a plan that will stop the boat , fix our broken asylum system and deliver for the british people . in contrast , the conservative party have run out of idea and run out of road . it should get out of the way so that we can get to work . rise — we have only one hour leave for the remainder of the debate , so I have to impose an immediate time limit . I be go to say six minute , but I will have to say five minute . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be always an experience to follow the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) . it be once say that someone who have just meet his father have just spend half an hour have a five - minute conversation with he . we have just have a half - hour speech , but I be afraid that we do not get five minute of anything remotely new in that . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it in order to raise my father and what he might or might not have say when he be not in the Chamber to defend himself ? it would be well not to do so . there be no hard and fast rule , since the right hon . and noble Gentlemen be no long a member of this Chamber . I will happily withdraw that , Madam Deputy Speaker , if I can have my minute back . I declare an interest as the chairman of a safeguarding board of a child ' s company . I be rather surprised to read in paper over the weekend that , accord to the briefing , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) and I be some sort of ringleader against the Bill . may I make it absolutely clear that I support the Bill and want it to go through as quickly as possible , and that I support the Rwanda scheme ? object to some of the Bill ' s traffic measure be about protect victim and prosecute trafficker , not undermine the Bill . great safeguard on how we look after child who have arrive here would not undermine the Bill ; they would strengthen it . safeguard to ensure that safe and legal route be in place for genuine asylum seeker would not undermine the Bill ; they would strengthen and justify the measure against those who be game the system , to whom we do not have a duty of care . in my limited time , I want to concentrate on the amendment table by Baroness Mobarik . I also thank Baroness Stroud and Lord Randall for the amendment on traffic and safe and legal route . the fact be that the Government ' s amendment to clause 12 will give a child on their own in the UK the chance to apply to be bail from detention after eight day , but that will apply only if they be detain to be remove , to be unite with family or to be return to their home country . that will not apply to all unaccompanied child when they first arrive in the UK ; it will impact on only a small group of child . other separated child not subject to removal will be detain for at least 28 day , and there be still no statutory limit on detention for any separated child . under the Government ' s proposal , separate child affect by the Bill can still be indefinitely detain . that be the truth of the matter . it be imperative to include a time limit on child detention in the Bill . if the Government intend to detain child for the short possible time , they can reinforce that message by enshrine a time limit in the primary legislation , as we have ask for all along . although the Minister have give some concession , we be still not there . the Government still do not explain what would constitute an age - appropriate detention facility . at the same time , they have introduce broad new power to allow the Home Secretary to designate a place as an immigration detention centre . it be worry to read that the Government be still unclear on the status of separated child who be detain , and claim that they will not require support from local authority under the Children Act 1989 . those child should , therefore , have access to support and right afford under the Act . it be concern to see the effective creation of a two - tier system , where a group of child might be deny protection just because of their immigration status and mode of arrival , despite the fact that they be all entitle to protection under the Children Act . the Minister have say that he want to detain child for the short possible time . I agree , so any codifying of that would surely be a beneficial win . we need reassurance on the type of detain accommodation : accommodation that meet child ' s home standard and be subject to the same sort of inspection as child ' s home . I miss the Minister ' s friendly chat over the weekend , which I have enjoy for the past few weekend . I be not sure why I be miss out . he do , however , send round some clarify point , but they do not clarify the still too many outstanding question . he have say : " where there be no dispute that someone be under 18 , they will be transfer to the local authority accommodation estate as quickly as possible . " how quick ? where do it say that ? he have also say : " where there be doubt about whether a person be indeed under 18 as they claim to be , they will be treat as a child while an age assessment be undertake . " where ? how ? he have say : " such a person will be detain in age - appropriate accommodation , as the law already provide . " where will that happen ? he have also say : " if no such accommodation be available , they will not be detain and instead will be transfer to a local authority as soon as possible . " — [ Official Report , 11 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 201 - 202 . ] good . where do it say that in the legislation ? that be a problem . the Minister have quote various inspection report of Yarl ' s Wood , go back to 2008 , in defence of what the Government be try to do . that inspection report say : " the plight of detain child remain of great concern … an immigration removal centre can never be a suitable place for child and we be dismay to find case of disabled child be detain and some child spend large amount of time incarcerate … any period of detention can be detrimental to child and their family , but the impact of lengthy detention be particularly extreme . " it also say that centre be " bright and well decorate " that on the last visit — clearly , some cartoon be still on the wall there . the problem be that there have be concession , but there be still too many unanswered question . we need those extra assurance . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . we should oppose all nine government motion , which be precisely what my SNP colleague and I will do this evening . let I say again that this Bill be so appalling that the House of Lords should stop it in its track . however , Baroness Jones be the one speaker who have the gut to say : " we should be stubborn about not allow the Bill to go through . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 12 July 2023 ; Vol . 831 , c . 1814 . ] as I ask last week , if the Lords will not consider halt this Bill , which Bill will it be ? this Bill be about lock up kid , force trafficking victim back to their exploiter , mass detention , closure of the UK asylum system and the trashing of international law . if the Lords will not use their power to block this Bill — a Bill that also run totally contrary to what be in the 2019 conservative manifesto — what be the point of their power , and what be the point of the House of Lords ? let we hope that we can salvage something from these final proceeding . on Lords amendment 1b , if the Bill be consistent with our international obligation , the Government can not have any objection to the amendment . on the other hand , if , as the Government have at other time argue , it wreck the Bill to have to be read consistently with international law , then the problem be with the Bill , not the amendment . that be a good reason in itself for the whole Bill to be stop in its track . the revision to the amendment mean that argument about allegedly incorporate international law have be address , despite the completely unsubstantiated assertion from the Minister . we have hear lot of strong word about protect a dualist system of law , but give that the Government could not even make the normal human right compatibility statement , we need strong action to protect fundamental human right and the rule of law . the group amendment 7b and 90d be also important in uphold the rule of law . they preserve judicial oversight , so that illegal decision by the Government can be properly challenge before they be implement . it really be as simple and fundamental as that . the Government keep talk about loophole , but access to court , the rule of law and fundamental right be not loophole ; they be fundamental principle that we should be uphold . lord amendment 9B be another crucial amendment . it now include safeguard to assuage the usual government concern about game the system , but retain the vital protection that if a person can not be remove to Rwanda even after six month , they will then have their case assess here . it simply preserve the status quo and be an essential protection . it remain an appalling prospect that people who be refugee will be leave in limbo forever by the government ; never allow to have their claim hear here and never able to contribute , even if removal be a near impossible prospect . indeed , it be also ludicrous that there will be people with totally unfounded claim for asylum who will get to remain here in limbo , often at considerable taxpayer expense , because of the Bill . the Bill stop unfounded claim be deal with , just as it stop well - found claim be deal with . the end result be that thousand of people will need to be detain and accommodate in perpetuity . many more will disappear underground , as they will have no reason to stay in touch with the Home Office . it be the end of the UK ' s contribution to the refugee convention . again , if the Government be not willing to move on that , their lordship should hold up the whole Bill . on mass and limitless detention of child in inappropriate accommodation , of course we continue to support all effort to curtail the horrendous new power and to limit the extraordinary harm that we know — and the Home Office know — detention cause to they . we therefore support Lords amendment 36c , 36d and 33b . as I say last week , the Government ' s amendment in lieu really represent a pathetic non - concession . a theoretical right for some kid detain for removal to seek bail after eight day be just not remotely acceptable . at the very least , we need short , hard and fast limit , and those limit should be automatic and not dependent on a child be able to navigate the bail system and access the legal support that would be require to do that . and the time limit should apply to all kid , whether accompanied or not , and regardless of which particular power they be detain under . the Government make claim about create incentive to play by the rule , but , as with most of their claim , they offer absolutely no evidence . there be no suggestion , for example , that the introduction of strict time limit by David Cameron ' s Government have the impact suggest here . it be just another myth . as member on both side have say , the Bill be a serious threat to victim of modern slavery and trafficking , and yet again it totally ignore devolve power on this subject . those be exploit be the one who will suffer , not the trafficker , whose power over their victim will only be enhance by the withdrawal of any route to safety for those they be exploit . we therefore support Lords amendment 56b and anything that will undo some of the damage that the Bill will do to modern slavery and traffic provision . without 56b , the damage the Bill will do to slavery and traffic law across the UK be yet again sufficient to justify hold up the whole Bill . on Lords amendment 23b and protection for LGBT people , we fully support everything Lord Etherton say in support of his amendment . put the fact that these country be not safe for LGBT people on the face of the schedule . anything that build on the flimsy and almost certainly unworkable system of " suspensive claim " should be welcome . LGBT people should not have to go through that process in the first place . if the Government be commit to safe legal route , they should have no problem with Lords amendment 102b . on the archbishop ' s amendment 107B and 107C , a 10 - year strategy be utterly sensible — indeed , it be essential . long - term thinking be as necessary for issue surround force migration as other pivotal challenge such as climate change . ultimately , the amendment can only add a little polish to an odious bill that be utterly beyond redemption . it should be stop in its track entirely and any party that still send people to the relic of a second Chamber should be use their influence to see that that happen . otherwise , this be all just for a show and very vulnerable people will suffer as a result . Edmund Burke say that what matter " be not what a lawyer tell I I may do ; but what humanity , reason , and justice tell I I ought to do . " in consider the Government ' s response to the Lords amendment , it be important to re - emphasise that the Bill be about fairness ; about affirm the integrity of our nation by defend our border from those who seek to arrive here illegally . we must have the power to remove those entrant from our country . to do so be just and fair . it be what the british people expect , what they vote for in 2019 , and what they choose in the Brexit referendum . consider the argument make in the other place , I be strike by the absence of a credible alternative to the Government ' s proposal ; there seem little sense there of the need to control our border , stop the boat , save life , and to make our immigration system fair , more reasonable and more just . sadly , much of the debate on the amendment in the other place have be characterise by a combination of denial and detachment from the popular will — denial about the urgency of the problem , and detachment from the sentiment express by my constituent and the constituent of other member on both side of this Chamber . those arrive in small boat must be detain securely and remove swiftly , and it must be a straightforward process , for only through that process will we deter more people from arrive . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , because of the time — I apologise to the hon . and learn Lady . as the Minister have make clear , the Government ' s response to Lords amendment 1b , 7b and 90d be root in the understanding that those amendment be unnecessary . the Government take our international obligation very seriously . indeed , all three Appeal Court judge agree that the Government ' s commitment be in tune with and compatible with international law . as for the motion to disagree with Lords amendment 23b , we must keep this matter in perspective . there be no evidence whatsoever that the vast majority of people come to this country in small boat , or indeed a significant number of they , be seek shelter from persecution because of their sexuality , and it be a distortion to pretend otherwise . in respect of the motion to disagree with Lords amendment 102b , this business of " safe and legal route " be , again , a distraction , and a detachment from the urgency of this problem . the amendment be unnecessary and seem to constitute legislative grandstanding , for under section 1 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 , the function of the National Crime Agency already extend to combat all type of organise crime , include organise immigration crime . finally , let I deal with the motion to disagree with Lords amendment 107B and 107C , which propose the Archbishop of Canterbury ' s " ten - year strategy " . I approve of have the Lords Spiritual in the other place . they be otherworldly — the Lord Bishops understandably take a view about an infinite , eternal future . however , those of we who be elect and answerable to the people directly have to deal with this world , here and now ; and in this world ; people demand that we control our border , and they do so justly and reasonably . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way because I wish to finish promptly , as you would expect I to do , Mr Deputy Speaker . the great Tory Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli say : " the secret of success be constancy to purpose . " this Minister and the Home Secretary have be constant in their purpose of control our border . let we have less sanctimony and more common sense ; less self - righteousness and more selfless commitment to the people ' s will ; less soul - search and more heartfelt advocacy of the interest of hard - work , law - abide , decent , patriotic Britons who support this Bill and oppose the Lords amendment . I regard the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) as a friend in the true sense of the word , but I say that it be a pleasure to follow he this evening — not least because it mean that he have stop talk . there be a real sense of d é j à vu about this debate , and not just because of the proceeding in relation to this Bill . we have hear all these argument before , almost word for word . everything that the Minister say at the Dispatch Box this afternoon have be hear in relation to what be now the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 — and what progress have be make as a consequence of that ? none . I follow closely your exchange with the shadow Immigration Minister , Madam Deputy Speaker , in relation to the question of the Minister be misleading . I should say that I do not think for one second that the Minister be in any way misleading . I can not speak for his intention , of course — only he know about that — but I certainly be not mislead . to any reasonable - minded person , it must surely be obvious what the Government be about today . look at the broad context . net migration figure be go up and up , and today there have be an announcement that construction worker be to be add to the shortage occupation list — something that run contrary to virtually every piece of rhetoric that we have hear from Government Back Benchers and the Treasury Bench . what we have here be a piece of double down at the expense of some of the most vulnerable people in the world . the Minister speak about late and repeat challenge — well , to have a late or repeat challenge , there would have to be some decision first : there must be a decision before it can be challenge . as of 28 March , there be 137 , 583 application outstanding in the system . this Government have fail to manage migration — whether asylum or the economic migration that our economy so desperately need . that be why we be here today : this be a nakedly political attempt to deflect attention away from the failure to deal with our system properly . it be unfortunate that the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) be not here . he make the point perfectly that the modern slavery amendment under consideration today would simply put the Minister ' s own word into force in the Bill . when conservative be in opposition , they use to shout about that all the time ; they seem to have lose their appetite for it in recent time . the comment of the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) about the detention of child be absolutely on point . we all see for ourselves — I certainly do — the human consequence and harsh reality of the detention of child when that be part of our immigration system . it beggar belief that we should be return to that . the question of safe and legal route be again a classic example of the Government say to we that we can have jam tomorrow but not today . how be it that the high politic have to be in the Bill but the actual practical workable solution , which will , to borrow the Minister ' s three - word slogan , actually " stop the boat " , be somehow too difficult ? they always have to be leave — not because they be practically or administratively too difficult but because they do not fit the unpleasant political rhetoric and narrative on which the Government rely to speak to a base that , frankly , should be confront and not appease . that be why my party will vote against the Government motion to disagree and we urge their lordship to stick to their gun . the Minister can relax ; I be not go to bang on about RAF Scampton — not least because I have put in for the Adjournment debate on Thursday when I can deal with it in more detail . I just ask the House to accept that my constituent be , more than any other in the country , victim of this farce — this debacle — of try to house 2 , 000 people in one place . that be not good for the people and it will overwhelm our social service . there be now an argument to be have about the future of the House of Lords . there be no point in our have these endless debate about whether it should be elect or not . it should be a proper revise Chamber . when it be give a Bill such as this , its attitude should be , " how can we improve it ? how can we make it work well ? how can we remove these legal glitch , which will have unintended consequence ? " it seem to I that so much of the debate in the House of Lords and so many of the amendment have just be design to drive a coach and horse through the Bill and to give human right lawyer even great chance to develop ever more legal argument to stop anybody from be deport . I have some sympathy with what the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) say . what be a bit of a mystery to I be that we go through this whole process last year . we have the ping - pong on the Nationality and Borders Bill . we get it through Parliament and be tell that it would solve the problem — but we still have the same problem . I prophesise that , actually , this Bill will become law . the Labour party do not want to set a precedent for the unelected House of Lords to block legislation , so it will give in and the House of Lords will deliver the Bill . it will become an Act of Parliament , and I have a horrible feeling that , this time next year , we will be in exactly the same position . can we rely on the Supreme Court to agree that people should be deport to Rwanda ? what be we go to do ? be it cruell to detain people as soon as they arrive or to do nothing and have a tragedy in the channel ? be it cruel to continue let people smuggler get away with what they want ? of course , I have enormous sympathy with what my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) say about child , but the trouble be that so many of these people who claim to be child be not child — they have to be assess . one of the problem we face at Scampton be that there be so many of these people , 20 % of the population come into the camp , which mean there will have to be an army of social worker to determine whether they be child . I have enormous sympathy for persecuted LGBT people , but the truth be that the moment we create an exception say that we can not deport a person to an african country with a dodgy record on LGBT , everyone will claim to be LGBT — of course they will . I would do the same . if I be come from Iraq , I would say I be a Christian . if I be come from Syria , I would say I be gay . this be the problem we face . every time we try to do anything , human right lawyer drive a coach and horse through all our effort . so what be we go to do ? I have say for two or three year now that the only solution — I suspect the Government will be drag into this within a year — be to have a derogation , if necessary a temporary derogation during a national crisis , from the refugee convention , which prevent we from detain people who claim to be asylum seeker . we will also have to have a derogation from the european convention on human right . I be a member of the Council of Europe , and I value the work of the Council of Europe , but the European Court of Human Rights be not a supreme court like our Supreme Court . it be not a supreme court like the American Supreme Court . it be a fundamentally political body , appoint on political ground . until we have freedom of manoeuvre to have a real deterrent that tell the world , " if you land illegally on our shore , you will be detain and , ultimately , you will either have to go back where you come from or be deport , " we will never stop this problem . it be all right for the Labour party to talk about safe and legal route , and about what it will try to do , but we all know that that do not work for the Dublin convention and it will not work if Labour take power . President Macron will not suddenly change his mind . he will not take anyone back . we will be in this exact position in 15 month ' time if there be a Labour Government , and I predict that , if there be a Labour Government , they will simply leave this Act on the statute book pretty well unamended . my constituency be a victim of all this , so what be the House go to do ? this be utterly debilitate . we can not go on like this . please , can we have a plan ? it be sadly not a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . talk about leave or have derogation from human right law be exactly what be wrong with the Government ' s approach to this issue and what be wrong with this vile Bill . with overwhelming support from across the political spectrum , and back by conservative peer and by religious leader , include the Archbishop of Canterbury , the other place be absolutely right to have inflict a string of defeat on this vile , illegal Bill . lord amendment 1b , in the name of Baroness Chakrabarti , should be easy for any decent Government to accept , because it simply ask for compliance with the rule of law , which be the bedrock of our democracy . but the Government be attack that foundation , force to admit on the face of this immoral Bill that they be unable to say it be compatible with the 1950 european convention on human right . by move a motion to disagree to Lords amendment 1b , the Government be seek to deny UK judge the right to interpret this law and to check it against compliance with the UK ' s obligation under no few than five international convention that we should be defend , not undermine . the Minister in the other place try to argue that a previous version of this amendment be try to incorporate international law into domestic law and that , in do so , it be an unacceptable change to our legal framework . I do not think that that be what the previous version do , but , for the avoidance of doubt , in this version Lords amendment 1b be explicit in call for the interpretation of international law to ensure compliance with our international obligation . indeed , Ministers will be aware of the contribution from Lord Hope , who serve as deputy president of the Supreme Court and last week say that this amendment be a " pure interpretation provision … entirely consistent with the way the court approach these various convention … . it be entirely orthodox and consistent with principle . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 12 July 2023 ; Vol . 831 , c . 1817 . ] adhere to the refugee convention , the european convention on human right , and other international law we have sign up to should be non - negotiable . what a terrible state of affair it be that the Government want to vote down an amendment seek compliance with the rule of law . the Government ' s argument be that strip vulnerable people of asylum and other human right will stop other vulnerable people fall into the hand of the people trafficker . that be both morally bankrupt and utterly bogus . it be morally bankrupt because human right be not earn or contingent on a person ' s conduct or character , or on whether uphold those right might affect someone else ' s action . human right be attach to a person by virtue of their humanity . vulnerable people , include child , be be punish because of presume future action of adult . furthermore , by disagree with Lords amendment 1b , Ministers face the charge of hypocrisy , as they disrespect international law and undermine migrant ' right at a time of unprecedented international turmoil . just last week , the Prime Minister be at a NATO summit absolutely say that we need to uphold international law against the grotesque breach by Putin in Ukraine . yes , we do need to do that , but let we have a little moral consistency . as well as be immoral , the Government ' s argument about a deterrent effect be bogus and unevidenced . the Home Office ' s own impact assessment , publish just last month , be pepper with caveat about how undeliverable this policy be . it include an admission that : " the delivery plan be still be develop . " the lack of evidence on deterrence in that document be glare . it say that the Bill be " novel and untested " , so we do not know what impact it will have on deterrence . as I say early , a raft of child ' s charity have point out that once routine child detention be end in 2011 , there be no proportional increase in child claim asylum . beyond that , there be a strong evidence to show that it be the precisely the hostility towards refuge exemplify by this Bill and the Government ' s rejection of Lords amendment to it that fuel the grim and terrible trade in small boat that they claim they be against . so any Member who vote to block the Lords amendment should admit that in do so , they degrade the rule of law , dehumanise vulnerable refugee , attack our modern slavery law , put LGBT refugee at grave risk , and that their approach will lead to the unconscionable mass detention and treatment of child , with no stated time limit to that detention — it be sicken . I will be vote to uphold the Lords amendment , because this Bill shame and degrade our country , our democracy and this House . I want to speak mainly about Lords amendment 1b , and to follow up on the remark make by the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) and the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . I hear he make exactly the same argument in the Council of Europe , when , to the consternation of most of its member , he argue that Britain have to criticise and walk away from the european court of human right because one case be find against Britain . many more case have be find against almost every other country that sign up to the european convention on human right and , therefore , the Court . I support Lords amendment 1b because it give some protection under the 1950 european convention , the 1951 UN convention and the convention on statelessness , on the right of the child and on action against trafficking . the Lords amendment will mean that any decision have to be take in accordance with those convention . if the Government be oppose those , what message be they give , other than that they have no respect for international law and for the convention we help to write and sign up for , and that they want to walk away from they ? walk away from they will mean that we have no regard for the right of people seek asylum if the European Court of Human Rights find we to be want in that respect . therefore , should any other country want to walk away from the european convention on human right , for example , Turkey , Poland or Hungary , all of which have issue with their legislation in respect of the convention , we will be in no position to criticise anybody ever again . the idea that this country be face a crisis so severe and so serious that we have to walk away from convention that be hard fight for and have serve the human right of people across Europe very well be simply ridiculous . on a global scale , the number of people involve be enormous , because of economic stress around the world , war , environmental degradation and destruction , and human right abuse . that be why people seek asylum . the Opposition spokesperson , my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , make it clear that he have be to Calais . I have also be to Calais and talk to people there . they be utterly desperate , which be why they be try to seek a place of safety . People who have seek a place of safety in this country and be grant permanent residence here have make an enormous contribution to our society . they be work in education , health , transport and the care sector . we have a massive labour shortage in almost every industry , so it seem to I rather odd that we be prevent people who have be grant at least the opportunity to apply for asylum in this country the chance to work and make a contribution to the society they have choose to come to . other country have far large number of asylum seeker than we do . Germany have take in far more asylum seeker than this country have , as have Italy . Outside Europe , where all the discussion be take place , it be usually the poor country neighbour a conflict that have to take in very large number of people . for example , Bangladesh have take in well over 1 million Rohingya people from Myanmar because of the activity of the Myanmar army , and there be other example around the world . there have to be a global response . the answer be not to put up barbed wire , have surveillance , use gunboat and all the rest of it ; surely the answer be some degree of international co - operation that recognise our obligation to all people around the world , as a global community , and that do something about the cause and source of people seek asylum , rather than the approach that the Bill take . I suspect the Bill will end up be completely ineffective . possibly , nobody will ever be remove to Rwanda — I hope that be the case . I would rather we stop it here and now , and at least pass amendment 1b . that would give those whose duty it be to protect people ' s right a recognition of the convention that we have sign up to and have spread around the world , say how good we be at sign up to those convention . let we stick to our word , and stick to those convention . as we do not have the opportunity for pre - legislative scrutiny of the Bill and it be be push through Parliament very quickly , I be pleased that the Lords have send back amendment so that we can look again and consider the unintended consequence of part of the Bill . I will speak to the amendment on modern slavery . evidence present to the Home Affairs Committee reveal the urgent need to open up more escape route for traffic victim , include end the current industrial - scale sexual exploitation , with woman advertise on pimp website up and down the land , in every Member ' s constituency , on website such as Vivastreet , which allow woman to be rape multiple time a day . under this legislation , if those woman come forward to the authority , they will not be offer help and assistance but will be detain and remove . remove those modern slavery protection will do nothing towards do what we all want to happen : to bring the organise crime group orchestrate that abuse to justice . so I support Lords amendment 56b to maintain the status quo . secondly , I be disappointed that the Lords amendment on child have not be accept . child constitute a small minority of those make the crossing in small boat , often arrive frightened , frequently traumatise and always vulnerable . such be the concern of the Home Affairs Committee about the current treatment and experience of child who claim asylum in the UK that we recommend the Government commission an independent end - to - end review of the asylum system as it apply to and be experience by child . however , instead of that , the Government be hurry through a Bill to reduce child ' s right . no one in this House would want such treatment for their own child , which be why I support Lords amendment 33b , 36C and 36b remain in the Bill . thirdly , a year ago the Home Affairs Committee publish the result of our inquiry into channel crossing and identify a slew of robust measure that the Government could deploy to stop small boat crossing and create a fair and efficient asylum system . they include the creation of safe and legal route and international initiative by the National Crime Agency to combat people smuggler , both of which be the subject of Lords amendment under discussion today . stop the people smuggling gang will require a raft of carefully craft , costed and evidence - base strategy , such as the one put forward by the Home Affairs Committee . it be for that reason that I firmly support Lords amendment 102b on safe and legal route , Lords amendment 103B on the National Crime Agency , Lords amendment 107B and 107C on a 10 - year strategy and Lords amendment 23b on removal destination for LGBT people and other person . these measure and the Bill as a whole must be implement in accordance with our international obligation , as be set out in amendment 1b . a constituent contact I recently and say that I seem to be speak an awful lot in the Chamber about immigration and asylum issue . I suppose that that be correct , but then that be because the Government allocate so much time in the Chamber to immigration and asylum issue . this be the third major piece of primary legislation on immigration since 2015 . however , the majority of constituent — hundred of constituent — who get in touch with I on each of these piece of legislation tell I just how disappointed , if not horrified , they be at the Tory UK Government ' s attitude to people who come here seek refuge . in reject all the Lords amendment before we today , the Government be show just how hostile an environment they want to create — not just for asylum seeker , but for almost anyone who want to make their home here in the UK . the fact that they will not accept Lords amendment 1b , which be a considerably soft version of what we discuss last week , demonstrate that . if the Government be truly committed to the international convention list in the amendment — particularly the 1951 refugee convention — they really should have no problem agree that they will form part of the interpretation of the Act when it come into force . I have also hear from constituent who want to ensure that LGBTQ people who arrive here from place where they can face imprisonment for simply be who they be can not be remove to those country . that be what the Lords be seek to achieve in Lords amendment 23b . accept that amendment would save time and public money because otherwise , by the Minister ' s own admission , claimant would have to make suspensive claim against removal to their country of origin . that be what the Minister say he want to avoid . he want to avoid loophole and needless court case . in that case , he should support Lords amendment 23b . the amendment that seek to protect child from indefinite detention and that maintain human trafficking protection speak for themselves , as do the Government ' s insistence on reject those amendment . the Government keep ask those of we who be oppose to the Bill for alternative proposal for deal with irregular arrival , and these be clearly outline in Lords amendment 102b and in the Lord Archbishop of Canterbury ' s amendment 107B and 107C . the Minister keep say that he want to establish safe and legal route . well , that be what Lords amendment 102b will require he to do . I have meet many asylum seeker through the Maryhill Integration Network and elsewhere who would much prefer to have come here from Eritrea , Iran or other country that have be mention today through a safe and legal route , rather than the risk , cost and desperation of come on lorry and boat . the archbishop ' s proposal for the development of a strategy on refugee and human trafficking be perhaps the most straightforward and easily implementable of all the clause and amendment so far . the Government regularly accept amendment require they to publish strategy and review on all kind of legislation . perhaps they do not want to support this one because the transparency and accountability that would come with require the Government to undertake a long - term analysis and make a long - term plan in response to global population flow would reveal the true hollowness of the rest of their proposal — the inhumanity and the self - defeat implication of the hostile environment . million of people will be on the move in the come year and decade . they will be flee war that we have finance and climate change that we have help to cause . experience in southern Europe and the american midwest this week suggest that they will not just be move from the southern hemisphere either . nobody be say that the United Kingdom should have completely open border and take unlimited number of migrant , but we have to be prepared to take our fair share , just as other country welcome refugee flee famine and clearance on these island not that many generation ago . if Government Ministers and Back Benchers truly respect the role that the House of Lords be suppose to play in the UK constitution , they really ought to listen to the message that their lordship be send today and will send in the day to come . as it stand , people in Glasgow North and across Scotland be listen to the rhetoric of the Conservative Government and decide that they want no more of it . they will be seek the safe and legal route to independence as soon as possible . I will begin by put on the record my complete opposition to this horrendous Bill in its entirety . it be cruel and inhumane . it will put people at serious risk of further exploitation . it be stoke division within our society , and it undermine constitutional principle and human right . we be here today to focus on amendment , so I will briefly say that I support all the Lords amendment before we , particularly Lords amendment 1b , which other have already speak about , in the name of my friend Baroness Chakrabarti . the amendment set out the Bill ' s intention to comply with a host of human right convention , include those with regard to the protection of human right and the right of the child , and against traffic human being . it be vital that we underline our commitment to human right , and , to quote the First Minister of Wales , Mark Drakeford , " provide a warm welcome to all of those who seek sanctuary " . that be particularly important as accommodation site that have be identify by the Home Office for asylum seeker become target for protest by the far right . that be happen in Wales at the moment . amendment 1B be a modest and uncontroversial amendment . the Lords have back it twice . More than 70 organisation have state their support . the Government must yield and stop vote it down . if the Government be , as they say , confident that the Bill be compatible with the UK ' s international law obligation , there be nothing to fear from the amendment . I also support Lords amendment 102b in the name of Baroness Stroud , a conservative peer , which provide for a duty to establish safe and legal route . this be , again , a modest and uncontroversial amendment that could make an unsupportable Bill slightly well . we need to go much far . we need to expand safe route , as organisation such as the Refugee Council , Care4Calais and the Public and Commercial Services Union have argue , in line with the amendment . we also need to tackle the backlog with a fair , humane and speedy processing system . the Government have lose control over the asylum system . their " stop the boat " rhetoric will not stop the boat because people be genuinely seek asylum from war and poverty , and nobody would go on a boat , risk their life , unless they be desperate . we should be welcome people to our country . what be contain in the Bill do not represent the type of country that I want to live in , or that I want my child or grandchild to live in . what I and million of other want be a country and society that be base on care , compassion , kindness , generosity , respect , inclusivity and , yes , solidarity . I support today ' s Lords amendment , which should be accept , but if the Bill be pass this week , I and many other in this House — and , more importantly , outside it — will continue to oppose and campaign against this appalling piece of legislation at every opportunity . I have to reduce the time limit to four minute . I call Claudia Webbe . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the provision of the Bill be inhumane and punitive . it have not improve with the Government ' s amendment send to the other place , which the other place have rightly reject , propose their own counter - amendment . the Government remain determined to allow themselves to detain and deport even unaccompanied child ; to disqualify many refugee from even attempt to apply for asylum or to appeal against unjust decision ; and to give the Home Secretary sweep power to make new rule or apply they as the Government see fit . even if every amendment propose by the Lords be pass , this would remain an odious bill , and one that shame this House and shame this country , but the late Lords amendment would at least mitigate some of the bad harm of the legislation — legislation that the Home Secretary can not even say be legal under international law . for those reason , I support all the amendment send back to this House by the other place , but I wish to speak particularly on the following . first , the Government have reject an amendment that would place a statutory duty on they to provide safe and legal route for refugee to reach the UK to apply for asylum , on the basis that they have already say that they will introduce such route . however , a promise to do something be not the same as a legal obligation to do it , and it be clear that this government can barely be trust to comply with their legal obligation , let alone their promise , as can be see in the unlawful deportation of member of the Windrush generation and the very fact that safe and legal route do not already exist . we know the Government can provide safe and legal route when they wish to . we be talk about people flee war , conflict and torture , with British - make bomb force desperate people to flee their home . I be surprised to hear the Minister admit that the Government be hold up refugee in Pakistan who have flee Afghanistan and who need to be here , and I believe it to be unlawful . if the Government be serious in intend to establish safe and legal route for those seek asylum , they have no need to fear or avoid take upon themselves a legal duty to do so . promise of a well tomorrow be no substitute . this be not a non - issue . I therefore put on record my support for Lords amendment 102b . secondly , this month more than 150 child ' s charity , faith leader , medical body and other write to the Government to demand that they scrap plan to detain refugee child — an abhorrent notion that disgrace this House and bring dishonour on the UK . it be a deeply inhumane and harmful provision of this Bill . the idea of detain child , especially indefinitely , have horrify even some member of the conservative party . early this year , the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) say that the Bill " amount effectively to indefinite detention of child of any age anywhere that the Home Secretary consider it appropriate . " — [ Official Report , 28 March 2023 ; Vol . 730 , c . 945 . ] the Prime Minister have call this Bill decent and humane . it be clearly neither . I therefore support Lords amendment 36c , 36d and 33b , which would restrict the detention of child . I want to apologise to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I do not think I indicate clearly enough that I want to speak . thank you for your generous dexterity in find time for I . I want to say one simple thing about the assurance give so far on the detention of child : they be not sufficient . there be large number of child who will be detain . the definition of age - appropriate and child - appropriate accommodation be not clear enough . I remind the House of my experience with Harmondsworth detention centre in my constituency before 2014 , when we legislate to prevent child be detain in detention centre . that detention centre be also mean to be age and child - appropriate , but what happen ? it simply have a wing with a school and so on , and child be lock up in there for month on end . we see the report of individual civil society organisation that assess the mental health implication of the detention of child at that stage . so far , the Minister have tell I that there be no Government intention to detain child in detention centre again , but , as I say to he before , intention be not good enough . we need legislation to prevent that from happen again . my fear be that , under pressure , Government Ministers will decide that there will be some appropriate decoration of some section of Harmondsworth and it will be open up for child again . I be a house father at a child ' s home in Hillingdon . it be one of the traditional child ' s home , run effectively as a family unit . I pursue my own career , and my wife be the house mother in charge and I be the house father . it be like a large foster unit , basically , and we take in child who have be detain in Harmondsworth . even before it be of the prison style that it be now , those child be , I believe , scar for life . I do not think that we would ever return to lock child up in that way . the child we look after often come to we after they have be lose within the system while their case be be process over a long time . they be often separate from their family , who come through other route . I think the damage be a scandal of this country ' s treatment of human being . that be why , from 2010 until 2012 , we run a campaign — across all religious group , and with civil society organisation such as the Children ' s Society — and publish report after report . David Cameron come forward heroically and say , " we will never detain child again , " and we legislate for that in 2014 . we be now go back to detain child almost indefinitely for some category . we have not get the assurance that we need about where they will be detain or about the care , comfort and succour that they will have to support they . as a result , if we allow this legislation to go through , it will be a stain upon this House and upon society overall for a long time to come . I ask Members to think again . we now go back into ping - pong with the other House , which be call simply for a realistic time limit on the detention of child so that they be not damage beyond repair in the way they be 10 year ago . I do not think that a simple amendment to set a time limit on child suffer in detention when they arrive in this country be an awful lot to ask of the Government . they often come from country where they have suffer enough ; we should not impose even more suffering on they . with the leave of the House , let I say a few word to close this short debate . as I say at the outset , when we meet and vote 18 time last week , we support the Bill time and again . in each of those 18 vote , we in this democratically elect Chamber vote to stop the boat , secure our border and enable this important Bill to move forward . now be the time for the other place , which be , at its heart , as a number of colleague have say — will the Minister give way ? I will not — we have hear from the hon . gentleman a number of time . the other place be ultimately a revise Chamber , and it be now time for it to support the Bill . today ' s debate have , like some of the other , be short on new argument and completely short of any credible alternative . I go back to the argument make in the other place by many distinguished member of that House and former member of this House , most notably the noble Lord Clarke , who say clearly that he be not able , have listen to the debate for hour after hour , to discern a single credible alternative to the Government ' s plan . it be incumbent on those who want to vote against the Bill to bring forward alternative , but we have not hear a single one . I use to say that Labour member do not have a plan to stop the boat , but that be not true . they do have a plan , but it be one that be so dangerously naive that it be a recipe for even more crossing and even great misery . they would create a massive pull factor by give economic migrant cross the channel from a safe place such as France the ability to work soon . they would attempt to grant their way out of the problem and sacrifice the remain integrity of the system . they would create bespoke country - specific route for every instance of instability in the world , which would impose more and more pressure on local community . be it not the most telling fact in this debate that today , in the shadow Immigration Minister ' s own town of Aberavon , there be not a single asylum seeker ? if member want more asylum seeker , they should have the honesty to have they in their own constituency . from the letter I receive from Labour mp , I assume that they would house asylum seeker even more expensively than we do today , with no regard to the taxpayer . I be not clear how they would remove illegal migrant when their own leader , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , campaign to close an immigration removal centre , ten of Labour mp have oppose the reopening of two other centre , and the Labour party ' s own membership recently vote to abolish they altogether . the fact be that as its member vote against the Bill today , Labour ' s message to the law - abide people of this country — from Stoke to Blackpool to Peterborough — when it come to illegal migration be quite simply " put up with it . " its message to the british family who have to wait long for social housing or GP appointment be " tough luck " , and its message to the hard - work taxpayer face with the ever - rise cost of the system be " Cough up . " it be only the conservative party that can see the fundamental injustice of illegal migration — that it ultimately affect the poor people in society the most — and have the determination to fix it . that be why the Bill be so important , and it be why the Lords now need to back it . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1b , 7b and 90d . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Julie Marson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Olivia Blake Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 298 , Noes 213 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 1b , 7b and 90d disagree to . More than two hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords message , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 11 July ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . clause 4 - disregard of certain claim , application etc Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 9B . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Julie Marson Jacob Young Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 307 , Noes 208 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 9B disagree to . after clause 6 - restriction on removal destination : LGBT and other person Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 23b . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Julie Marson Jacob Young Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Jackie Doyle - Price Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Alicia Kearns Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Rob Roberts Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 300 , Noes 212 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 23b disagree to . clause 10 - power of detention Motion make , and question put , that this House insist on its amendment 36a and 36b and disagree with Lords amendment 36C and 36d . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Julie Marson Jacob Young Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Rehman Chishti Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Alicia Kearns Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 289 , Noes 220 . question accordingly agree to . amendment 36a and 36b insist upon , and Lords amendment 36C and 36d disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 33b . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Julie Marson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 300 , Noes 208 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 33b disagree to . clause 21 - Provisions relate to removal and leave Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 56b . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Rehman Chishti Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Jackie Doyle - Price Iain Duncan Smith Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Alicia Kearns Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 282 , Noes 227 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 56b disagree to . after clause 58 - Duty to establish safe and legal route Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 102b . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Rehman Chishti Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans iain Duncan Smith Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Alicia Kearns Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 284 , Noes 226 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 102b disagree to . after clause 60 - organise immigration crime enforcement Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 103B . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Ruth Edwards Steve Double Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 297 , Noes 214 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 103B disagree to . in Division no . 304 , four member nod through the No Lobby be not include . so the result should have be : ayes 284 , and Noes 226 . after clause 60 - ten - year strategy on refugee and human trafficking Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 107B and 107C . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 292 , Noes 215 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 107B and 107C disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 1b , 7b , 90d , 9B , 23b , 33b , 56b , 102b , 103b , 107B and 107C ; that Robert Jenrick , Scott Mann , Shaun Bailey , James Sunderland , Stephen Kinnock , Gerald Jones and Patrick Grady be member of the Committee ; that Robert Jenrick be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Fay Jones . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill [ Lords ] for the purpose of supplement the order of 7 November 2022 ( Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill [ Lords ] : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Message ( 1 ) proceeding on the Lords Message shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Fay Jones . ) question agree to . Social Housing ( Regulation ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Lords message Clause 21 - Standards relate to competence and conduct I beg to move , that this House do not insist on its amendment 13 to which the Lords have disagree , and agree with the Lords in their amendment 13b in lieu . we be bring the Bill back to the House for what I hope be the final time , to get this vital legislation on to the statute book . it seek to enable the big change in social housing regulation in a decade and to drive the change that be so desperately need in the social rent sector . when the Bill be last before the House , we make important amendment to clause on competency and conduct standard in relation to mandatory qualification . they make provision to require senior housing manager and senior housing executive of register provider to have , or be work towards , appropriate - level housing management qualification . we subsequently table amendment 13b in the other place to ensure that relevant manager employ by organisation that deliver housing management service on behalf of a registered provider be also capture by the legislation , as be our original policy intention . I have no doubt that we all welcome and support professionalism from those who check the regulation . I be always perplexed that we do not have the same regulation in Northern Ireland . be it the Minister ' s intention to ensure with the appropriate body in Northern Ireland that professionalism can also be effective there ? the hon . Gentleman be , as ever , a fantastic champion for Northern Ireland and its people . we will , of course , continue to have conversation with the relevant body in Northern Ireland , because it be important that social housing , wherever it be provide within the United Kingdom , be up to the appropriate standard . I know he will continue to champion that cause . in closing , I would just like to put on record one final time my and my Department ' s heartfelt thank to Grenfell United and all other stakeholder for their strong constructive engagement on this critical legislation . I hope that , follow today , we will see it on the statute book incredibly soon . I intend to be brief , because the sole amendment we be consider be entirely uncontentious . as you will no doubt recall , Madam Deputy Speaker , the opposition welcome the concession the Government make in the other place last year with regard to professional training and qualification , and the result addition of clause 21 to the Bill . have press in Committee for that clause to be strengthen , we also welcome the Government ' s amendment to it , which be table on Report early this year on the basis that it largely assuage our concern . we support Lords amendment 13b in lieu of Commons amendment 13 , as do the relevant trade body and tenant group include Grenfell United and Shelter , whom we once again commend for the role they play in convince the Government to incorporate qualification requirement in the Bill . lord amendment 13b be a technical amendment that have three main effect . first , it will ensure that the qualification requirement in clause 21 capture relevant manager work for organisation which deliver housing management service on behalf of a registered provider . secondly , it will ensure that contractual agreement between registered provider and delegate service provider and relevant sub - agreement contain term stipulate that their relevant manager should have , or be work towards , a specify qualification in housing management , thus enable register provider to take action against delegate service provider that be not compliant . thirdly , the amendment expand on definition of service provider and specific role , and provide for consultation before set a standard and before give a direction to set a standard . we agree with their lordship that the change be necessary if we be to ensure that the sector as a whole deliver high - quality professional service of the kind social tenant deserve and rightly expect . I want to put on record our thank to my noble friend , Lady Hayman of Ullock for bring the need for this amendment to the Government ' s attention and for her effort more generally to improve the Bill in the other place . it be our sincere hope that once the House have agree this minor but necessary change today , this important and urgently need piece of legislation can quickly receive Royal Assent so that we can overhaul the regulation of social housing and well protect the health , safety and wellbeing of social tenant across the country . question put and agree to . strike ( Minimum Service Levels ) Bill consideration of Lords message Schedule - Minimum service level for certain strike I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2d . this House have be ask these question before and twice this House have say no with an overwhelming majority . we be ask to consider for a third time an amendment that significantly expand on previous version that have already be reject . member of the other place reference the report of the International Labour Organisation ' s committee of expert as a reason to reconsider . however , I should note that this ground have already be well cover by both Houses . it be argue that Lords amendment 2D require Ministers to do what the ILO be request : to undertake consultation when consider introduce regulation to implement minimum service level . the Bill already require Ministers to do just that , as they have do in undertake public consultation on their intention to bring forward minimum service level to passenger rail service , ambulance service and fire and rescue service . impact assessment be publish alongside those consultation and final impact assessment will be publish alongside the regulation the Government bring forward for approval in Parliament in due course . my colleague Lord Callanan be right to say in the other place that the ILO do not say that the legislation be not compatible with ILO convention . it simply say that it should be compatible and that we should ensure that it be . as state in Parliament when introduce and throughout its passage , the Bill be compatible with the UK ' s international obligation . the Government will continue to uphold their international obligation as the minimum service regulation be introduce . lord amendment 2D also seek to ensure that the " reasonable step " that union should take to make sure that their member comply be consider as part of the consultation that be require before minimum service regulation be make . member will recall that when this House last consider the Bill , I confirm that the Government be willing to consider whether there be a case for provide further detail on the reasonable step that union must take under new section 234E to ensure that identify worker comply with a work notice give by an employer . in the light of the recommendation from the Joint Committee on Human Rights and point raise in both Houses during the Bill ' s passage , the Government accept that further detail would give union more legal certainty and foresight with regard to their obligation than the Bill provide in its current form . the Government will therefore introduce a statutory code of practice on the reasonable step that must be take , use exist power under section 203 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . these power enable the Secretary of State to issue a code of practice to promote the improvement of industrial relation . will the Minister spell out exactly how trade union be to comply with and enforce a code that be outwith their jurisdiction in make worker go into work ? the code of practice will be consult on so that all party be clear about what the obligation of the union will be . we expect they to be quite straightforward . they have be debate at length , along with various idea about how this might operate . rise — I want to end my speech shortly , but I will give the hon . Lady one last chance to intervene . as have be point out on numerous occasion , the measure that the Minister be try to introduce be outside the jurisdiction of trade union , which therefore do not have the power to implement they . as I have say , we intend to consult with all party to make sure that they have a chance to comment on what reasonable obligation a union might be require to take . I think that it be pretty straightforward , and , indeed , union will be familiar with the code of practice on picketing that be issue under section 203 of the 1992 Act . this code will be subject to statutory consultation , include consultation with ACAS , and to the approval of Parliament . the consultation will give trade union , employer and any other interested party an opportunity to contribute to practical guidance on the step that a union must take in order to make it as practicable , durable and effective as possible . if the Minister be so willing to consult , why be he reject an amendment which confirm that there should be a consultation ? we be not happy with a number of other part of the amendment . we be propose a measure that we have already propose in early debate . it be , of course , up to those in the other place to decide how they take their amendment forward , but we believe that this be fair . we be satisfied that it be an effective way to provide for clarity , and that the individual consultation for specific minimum service level in relevant service require by Lords amendment 2D be not need . the real impact of the amendment would be a delay in the implementation of minimum service level , give the additional and lengthy consultation and parliamentary requirement which we strongly suspect be its purpose . unnecessary delay in the protection of the life and livelihood of those whom we have be elect to represent can not be justify . I call the shadow Minister . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . let I repeat , at the outset , our opposition to the Bill and our intention to repeal the Act that it will become should we be in a position to do so in the future . it be one of the most illiberal , unconscionable and ultimately destructive piece of legislation produce by any Government . we believe that the right to withdraw labour be a fundamental right , a human right , and one that should not be extinguish . even if some conservative member can not see past their hostility to trade union and past the easy headline , they should see that what they be ask their constituent to do be distinctly un - British , because it infringe on individual freedom that ought to be — even for Conservative Members — a basic part of any open and democratic society . freedom matter , and value freedom sometimes mean that we protect another person ' s freedom to do something even if we do not personally agree with the particular course of action . but our objection be base not just on principle , but on practicality . ultimately , we do not think that the Bill will work . the Bill be counterproductive because it will not quell the concern of many people in the sector that have take industrial action . take away the right to strike will not take away people ' s concern . we can not legislate away people ' s legitimate grievance about their working condition . because the Bill be so ill define and poorly think through , Parliament must have a proper opportunity to consider its ramification . the measure set out in Lords amendment 2d attempt to address some of those issue . the amendment also provide yet another opportunity for we to raise our concern about the Government ' s lax approach to proper scrutiny during the Bill ' s progress so far . let we go back to when the Bill be first publish . it be surely a basic expectation of Government that they should provide an impact assessment before ask hon . member to vote on a Bill . but no — we be ask to trust the Government that the matter be in hand and that all would be fine . we say it at the time and we say it again : that approach be completely unacceptable . the Bill have be trail in the press for month before it be publish , so not to have the impact assessment ready at the same time be a failure of basic competence . when it finally appear , we could see why the Government be so keen to keep it under wrap . the Regulatory Policy Committee say that it be not fit for purpose — it could just as easily have be talk about the Government — and no wonder , give that the assessment contain statement that undermine both the purpose and execution of the Bill . the impact assessment state that the Bill " could mean a general increase in tension between union and employer . this may result in more adverse impact in the long term , such as an increase frequency of strike for each dispute . " when Ministers tell we on Second Reading that the Bill would reduce the disruption cause by strike , what they apparently do not know be that the Government ' s own impact assessment would say that it could , in fact , have the opposite effect . the impact assessment also say , on at least half a dozen occasion , that assumption be be make about the level of service that would be require . that be the point of the Lords amendment : unless we have some idea about what these minimum service level will be — in the six month since the Bill be publish , Ministers have not come to the Dispatch Box and tell we — we be legislate in a vacuum . the point have not be lose on the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee , which write in its assessment that " there be nothing in the Bill say what those minimum service level be . we shall only know when minister make regulation after the Bill be enact . this be small comfort to Parliament , which be consider the matter right now . " the Committee ' s recommendation be that the Government should publish indicative draft regulation alongside the Bill . as it rightly point out , " the Government must have some idea how they propose to exercise these power . " it be no surprise that the impact assessment get a red rating . of the 861 Bills assess by the Regulatory Policy Committee since its creation , just 2 . 9 % have be give a red rating . when legislation represent such a fundamental departure from past practice , the importance of impact assessment increase rather than decrease . if this all sound familiar to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that be because it be . only last week the High Court say , in relation to the consultation process for the regulation that allow agency worker to break strike , that " this be not a case in which the evidence be that the proposal have obvious and undisputed merit base on cogent evidence , and enjoy strong support from representative body in the sector " . it could have be talk about this Bill — no doubt , in time , it will be . the pattern be familiar . the Government decide the policy , although " policy " be probably too strong a word . the Government decide the headline that they want to create , rush through ill - thought - out legislation and then ignore all the voice that point out principled and practical objection . that be to treat democracy with contempt . Parliament be not a rubber - stamp process to agree whatever the Government of the day decide . when Parliament be starve of its ability to properly scrutinise legislation , that impact on fundamental human right , as it do in this case . it should come as no surprise that there be pushback from the other place require that a robust process be follow . the amendment be important because the International Labour Organisation ' s conference committee on the application of standard call on the Government to ensure that exist and prospective legislation be in conformity with the convention that govern freedom of association and the protection of the right to organise . I would not have think that be too much to ask of a modern liberal democracy . in fact , I be rather ashamed that the ILO have have to point it out at all . all this amendment do be what the ILO be ask the Government to do anyway , which be to undertake genuine consultation before implement minimum service regulation . this mean that , when regulation be publish , they would include an impact assessment and there should be genuine consultation on the regulation , include on the protection for worker name in work notice and the reasonable step a trade union need to take to ensure compliance . the amendment would also ensure that the relevant Secretary of State consult with the ILO and lay before Parliament any advice it give , as well as lay a report from the relevant Joint Committee on all the action require under this amendment . this be important , not just because the ILO think it be need but because it fill some of the hole in the process so far . indeed , it may address some of the important question that still need answer . right now , under this Bill , trade union can receive huge fine if their member go on strike when they be ask not to do so by their employer , yet there be no information in the Bill on what a trade union will need to do to avoid that liability . imagine if the Government present a Bill that have the potential for business to receive a seven - figure fine but say nothing about what those business need to do to comply . there would be uproar from member on both side of the House , and they would be right to be concern . what be sauce for the goose should be sauce for the gander . the Minister have belatedly say that a new code of practice will be bring forward , which be an improvement on the Government ' s previous position that it be for the court to decide what should be reasonable step . we be the legislator ; we be the one who be mean to shape and determine act of Parliament . we should not leave it to judge to try to work it out , possibly year down the line . such ambiguity could be very costly for trade union , and it certainly be not a recipe for improved industrial relation . give the Government ' s track record on provide detail on the various step in this Bill , I have little confidence that a code of practice will provide any comfort at all . it be the epitome of this " headline first , detail later " Government , and it be just one of the many reason why the Bill should be abandon altogether . at the very least , it be a good reason to support the amendment . of course , the Minister have say that the Government be consult on the regulation — and they be , after a fashion . so far , though , consultation have be limit to only half the area for which the Bill legislate , and those area do not really deal with the fundamental question that have be raise . can the Minister at least tell we the basis on which these particular service area be identify as the one on which to commence consultation ? the response to the consultation have not be publish . do the Minister agree that we should have sight of the response before the Bill pass ? do any of the response say , for example , that minimum service level be unworkable ? be there anything in the response that he think Parliament ought to be aware of before we vote on the Bill again ? can he even tell we the total number of response to each consultation , and the breakdown and proportion of response from service user , employer and union ? ultimately , these consultation paper still do not tell we what a minimum service level will look like . even for the railway , for which the Government have be look to set a minimum service level the long — arguably since the last general election — they do not have a concrete plan . and on page 8 and 11 of the ambulance service impact assessment , there be statement that show the folly of this legislation , because it state in black and white that a minimum service level could lead to a poor service than be currently agree voluntarily . the only thing we have learn from these consultation document be that even the Government do not think the Bill will deliver what they say it will deliver . there be nothing on the reasonable step a trade union must take , nothing on what happen to a worker who be sack for fail to comply with a work notice , even if they have not receive it , and nothing on how any of this will actually help to resolve industrial dispute . I be sorry to interrupt my hon . friend when he be in full flow but , as he be develop his argument on the need for consultation and impact assessment , have he be able to clarify with the Government what happen if an employer refuse to comply ? in London , for example , the bus be contract out , and individual bus company have have individual dispute . if the Government instruct there to be a minimum service level but the employer do not want to sour industrial relation in the long term and therefore refuse to comply , what then happen ? that be a very good question . my understanding — no doubt the Minister can correct I if I be wrong — be that it be still up to the employer to determine what work notice it issue , which make the Bill a little ludicrous . all these consultation paper , all these impact assessment , and we be still legislate in the dark . my hon . friend have just make a valid point , because when NHS Employers and the NHS Confederation come before the Select Committee on Health and Social Care , they say that they do not want any of this legislation . presumably , follow that logic , they will not have to issue minimum service level term for a strike . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . that be why it would have be so interesting to see what the consultation response be to the draft regulation , because those might have tell we whether employer be say , " Don ' t do this ; we don ' t think it be go to work . " we know that a long list of employer ' organisation be oppose to this Bill , and I will come on to that in a moment . they understand that , ultimately , it be not go to help industrial relation but will sour they . in summary , the Bill ' s impact assessment turn up late and be inadequate ; no pre - legislative scrutiny or evidence session for the Bill take place ; the Committee stage be rush through in one day ; and subsequent consultation be incomplete and leave many question unanswered . yet the Government still say that this Lords amendment be not necessary . the evidence to date and the opinion of the ILO say otherwise . I refer to the fact that the ILO be not alone in express concern about the Bill . many organisation have express alarm , include the Equality and Human Rights Commission , the Joint Committee on Human Rights , NHS Providers , the rail industry , the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development , the TUC , and the Welsh and Scottish Governments . the Transport Secretary and the Education Secretary have also do so , and I could give more name , but I have only an hour for this debate and so I will leave it there . when we have the shameful spectacle of the ILO call this Bill out , member need to think again . by reject this Lords amendment , the Government be , in effect , say one of two thing : either they do not know whether they break international law ; or they do know but they just do not care . we ought to care , we ought not to be trail behind in workplace protection , and we ought not to be mention in the same breath as Turkmenistan . we ought to be lead from the front , as an exemplar for other country to follow and a leader on the international stage that say , " yes , good workplace right and strong trade union be a key component in any prospering modem economy , and the right to withdraw your labour be a fundamental one . " however , this Bill be the hallmark of a weak government who have run out of steam , have nothing leave to offer but division and want to silence the very people who keep this country go — shame on they . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson it be a pleasure to follow the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) . I agree with all his comment , but I hope that Labour stay resolute on this . if it come into government , we do not want to see another u - turn , give what we hear at the weekend . the Minister put forward the myth again about how this Bill be about save life and livelihood . I do not know how he can talk about save livelihood , as he be bring forward a Bill that be go to allow worker to be sack more easily . worker ' livelihood be at stake because of the Bill and the intention behind it . I would like to put on record my thank to the Lords for the fight they have bring on this , but I be a wee bit disappointed that the Lords amendment be only about the consultation . even if we manage to defeat the Government tonight , the Lords amendment do not provide any additional proper protection for the union or the worker , because it be all about consulting . at least consulting would draw out some transparency , because the Government would need to publish response and allow the House or a Joint Committee to debate those . in itself , however , the amendment do not provide any additional protection . do it not speak volume about the way in which this government conduct their business that they go through a consultation process and be not prepared to publish the result of that consultation ? what have they get to hide ? that be a fair point . obviously , I can not answer on what the Government have to hide , other than to say that we know about a raft of answer that show how unworkable and prejudice this Bill be . subsection 5 ( b ) in the amendment be about consult the ILO . the Government keep tell we that this Bill bring the legislation in the UK into line with international norm , but it clearly do not ; the ILO have say that the UK already have some of the most draconian strike legislation , even before this Bill . so there be no doubt that the Government be frightened to consult the ILO because they be frightened about the answer that will come back and the evidence about how draconian this really be that will be put into the public domain when it be publish . as I say , it look as if the Lords be go to back down after this . there be no more schedule business to allow further consideration of the Lords message , which suggest they be not go to push the amendment beyond that . that be disappointing , especially give that the Government have try to argue before that this be a manifesto commitment . the actual manifesto commitment be to require a minimum service for transport . that commitment be not as wide ranging , so the Lords would be completely justify in continue to resist for as long as possible . as the shadow Minister say , because the amendment be to consult , as oppose to what be set out in previous amendment , union be still at risk of face big fine . union be still go to comply , effectively help employer disrupt strike and single out worker . bad of all , worker can now get sack for not comply with a work notice that they have not receive . why the Government would not even consult and publish an impact assessment on that be beyond I . again , they know that it allow employer to unfairly discriminate , pick out the awkward squad , then discipline and sack they , with no recourse to a tribunal . welcome , Madam Deputy Speaker , to 21st century authoritarian Britain , where sack worker like that bring the UK in line with Russia and Hungary , not the international norm , although the Minister and Government try to tell we otherwise . I will be vote against the Government motion to disagree with the Lords . I hope the Lords do not give up the fight , but I be frightened they will . that be why we want away from this Union , because it be certainly not work for anybody . the Minister have let the cat out of the bag in relation to the Government ' s attitude to this dreadful Bill and to amendment 2D from the other place . the Minister object to Lords amendment 2d because it would delay the implementation of the Bill . let we be clear : the Bill make history for all the wrong reason . it be the big attack on the role of our trade union in our democracy for many a long year . why be the Government so desperate to rush the Bill through ? one almost think they can not stomach the idea of even a small delay because they want it to be present at the Conservative party conference as a bit of red meat to the party faithful — classic anti - trade union politic and trade union bash . let we think about where we be in term of industrial relation . the Bill , which the Government do not want to consult on properly , come shortly after over 100 , 000 nurse in this country vote to take strike action — the result in that recent ballot be that 84 % of nurse who cast a vote do so to take strike action . however , because of the Government ' s dreadful Trade Union Act 2016 , an 84 % vote in favour of strike action do not count , be worthless and do not result in strike action , because the turnout be 43 % . the Government help drive down the turnout by not allow people to vote by electronic ballot . the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , who make such a mess of this country in her short tenure , be elect by electronic ballot of conservative party member . not allow people to vote by electronic mean reveal the contempt the Government have for the big voluntary organisation in our society — the trade union movement . they will not even give worker in our country the modern dignity of be allow to vote online or in the workplace . the Government object to Lords amendment 2D and do not want to consult on it . be that any wonder ? the great the consultation that take place in relation to this abhorrent Bill , the more it become clear that the Bill be a complete offence . let we be clear : the Bill , which the Government do not want to have a proper consultation on , require trade union to take reasonable step to get their own member to break trade union picket line . this Bill require trade union to completely change their function in our democratic society . it be the job of a trade union to persuade trade union member to honour a strike vote , not to break a strike . we see the hand of this authoritarian Government attempt to extend into our trade union , try to try to use they as a tool of the state to do the bidding of a Conservative Government , or the bidding of employer . the Bill be rotten and it be no wonder that the Government do not want to consult on it . any fair - minded person , whatever their politic , would realise that that be not the function of trade union in our society . we have hear Ministers boast about how this will result in people be sack if they do not comply with the requirement to go to work . indicate dissent . the Minister shake his head . if what I be say be not true , why do he not take that measure out of the Bill , so that worker can not be sack for not comply with work notice ? that be in the legislation . I shall be charitable to the Minister . have listen to he in a number of debate , I sometimes think that he do not realise quite how pernicious the Bill be , but I think that other in the conservative party do ; they know exactly what they be do . this anti - trade union Bill , which the Government do not wish to consult on properly , come hot on the heel of the criminalisation of peaceful protest , which be a democratic right in our society , and hot on the heel of voter ID , when what we should be do be make it easy for people to vote in our society , not hard . this be an anti - trade union piece of legislation that shame the Government . People can see through it . the Government can not even pretend to be up for proper consultation by accept Lords amendment 2D . they know what the ILO think of it , they know what our colleague in the other place think of it , and they know what the british people think of it . that be why the next Labour Government will repeal this rotten piece of legislation , if indeed it pass , and bring in an important suite of worker ’ right , because worker and trade union in this country have have enough of be treat like dirt for the past 13 year . let we stop this race to the bottom in worker ’ right , and instead build a democratic system — a democratic system where we can be proud of the worker ’ right in our country . may I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ? the Lords have be set an unenviable task in attempt to amend a piece of legislation as ill - conceive as this one . as a lifelong opponent of the principle of an unelected second Chamber , I be surprised to find myself now commend the thoughtfulness and diligence that the other place have demonstrate in its many sitting concern this legislation . it have be a breath of fresh air when compare with this Government ' s recklessness in attempt to rush the Bill through Parliament . I rise in support of Lords amendment 2D . its purpose be simple : to ensure that perhaps the most significant piece of trade union legislation to be consider by this House in more than a century be subject to appropriate scrutiny before it be add to the statute book . I wish to repeat the comment that I make when we consider the Lords amendment on 22 May . I say that no number of amendment could ever salvage this Bill . it be rotten to the core . it target a right that should be sacrosanct in any democracy — the right to withdraw our labour . in sector such as education and health , the provision of the Bill will hobble the ability of work people to fight for the dignity and fairness that we all deserve in the workplace , and make the trade union themselves unwilling accomplice in undermine the effectiveness of their own industrial action . worse still , in sector such as air traffic control or nuclear decommissioning , minimum service regulation will , in effect , amount to a ban on take any strike action at all . minister have repeatedly insist that their policy towards the trade union movement conform with international standard and our treaty obligation . that be not the view take by the High Court last week when it quash the Government ' s law allow employer to bring in scab labour to break strike . the court ' s verdict be damn : that the Government ' s approach be so unfair as to be " unlawful " and , indeed , " irrational " . despite the claim make by this government that the International Labour Organisation support minimum service standard , the director general of the ILO have make an unprecedented intervention in voice his concern about the effect of the Bill on worker and of the Government ' s strategy of impose minimum service requirement on worker instead of encourage they to be negotiate between union and management . most embarrassingly of all for the Government , the Bill have be slam by their own independent Regulatory Policy Committee as be not fit for purpose . the question that all of we should be ask be why the Bill be not withdraw the moment the RPC slap it with a red rating in February . why be we still debate proposal that have be condemn by not only my friend in the trade union movement but a vast swathe of trade association and the business community ? their verdict be astoundingly clear : they do not think the Bill will work . they be concern , with good cause , that it will make industrial relation in this country bad . they simply do not want the Bill . the answer be simple . the Government be aware of their impending electoral oblivion . they be intent on drive through reform that will realise their decade - long dream of a world in which worker be strip of all their right and leave helpless at the whim of their employer . it be about time for a little more candour from those on the Government Benches . I thank all member for their contribution to the debate . I think that it be time to agree to disagree with some of the point that have be make by Opposition Members . the Bill be compatible with our international obligation , which the Government will continue to uphold . we have announce a new code of practice , which will provide the clarity that Opposition member have be ask for throughout the Bill ' s passage . I encourage the other place to take note of the strong view of this House , and that its will should be respect . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2d . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Scott Benton Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Steve Double Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Bill Esterson Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Margaret Ferrier Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 302 , Noes 205 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2D disagree to . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up a Reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 2d ; that Kevin Hollinrake , Mike Wood , Alexander Stafford , Jane Stevenson , Justin Madders , Christian Wakeford and Alan Brown be member of the Committee ; that Kevin Hollinrake be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Stuart Anderson . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 5 , 6 and 7 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , exit the European Union ( Northern Ireland ) that the draft Equipment and Protective Systems intend for Use in potentially Explosive Atmospheres Regulations ( Northern Ireland ) 2017 ( Amendment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 June , be approve . Employment and Training that the draft Industrial Training Levy ( Engineering Construction Industry Training Board ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 June , be approve . immigration that the draft Immigration and Nationality ( Fees ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 June , be approve . — ( Stuart Anderson . ) question agree to . Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority [ relevant document : First Report 2023 of the Speaker ' s Committee for the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority , Appointment of IPSA Board Member ( former high judicial office holder ) , HC 1443 ] I beg to move , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , pray that his Majesty will appoint Dame Laura Cox to the office of ordinary member of the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority with effect from 1 August 2023 for the period end on 31 July 2028 . the Speaker ' s Committee for the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority have produce a report — its first report of 2023 — in relation to the motion . I have no doubt that member will have study that report closely and will know of Dame Laura ' s background . I note that the recruitment panel consider Dame Laura an eminently appointable candidate . IPSA be quite rightly independent of Parliament and Government , but as all Members will know and understand , it have an incredibly important role in regulate and administer the business cost of hon . member and decide their pay and pension . I hope that the House will support this appointment and wish Dame Laura well in this important role , and I commend the motion to the House . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I rise to support the motion in the name of the Leader of the House , and to say that Dame Laura Cox have bring a great deal to this House . she have challenge we ; she have work with we ; she have review the independent complaint and grievance system , thereby strengthen our system of accountability for bullying and sexual harassment ; and she have come to know we well . I believe she will be a good critical friend . she have be duly well appoint , and I support the motion . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the SNP pay tribute to Sir Robert Owen , who leave the IPSA board in April , and wish he the good for the future . we welcome the appointment of Dame Laura Cox to fill the vacancy : with her extensive and esteemed judicial career and dedication to equality and human right , she will bring invaluable experience to the role . in 2018 , as have be mention , Dame Laura lead the independent inquiry into bullying and harassment of House of Commons staff , and be involve in select the chair and member of the Independent Expert Panel , so she have an in - depth knowledge of this place . I note that the appointment panel recognise her " strong understanding " of IPSA , its challenge , and the political landscape in which it operate . the panel also highlight Dame Laura ' s prove track record of make " difficult decision " under " intense public scrutiny " . I have no doubt that she will be an exceptional addition to the IPSA board , and the SNP support the motion . as regularly on these occasion , I say to the House that I have no particular knowledge of the individual concern or any animus towards they , but I have huge concern about the process . I hope that , when the Leader of the House be look at rigorous analysis and make tough decision about IPSA , she look , for example , at why it have expensive office in the Strand in London when nearly all the staff seem to be work from home , and why the experience of individual member in deal with IPSA staff be that they be not facilitator of the work of hard - press and hard - work Members of Parliament , but most of the time — with one or two individual exception , but certainly as an institution — be just incredibly obstructive . it create a huge amount of unnecessary and bureaucratic work not just for Members of Parliament , but for our member of staff . I know that this be echo across the Chamber from the number of member who come up to I after speech such as this to say so , many of whom may even have be watch in their office while grind through their ipsa return . I very much object to the process . the Parliamentary Standards Act 2009 , which be bring in in haste and in response to a crisis — and in a panic , I would argue — specifie that at least one of the member of IPSA " must be a person who have hold ( but no long hold ) high judicial office " . why ? what do the requirement to have hold high judicial office or to have be an eminent barrister have to do with decide how efficiently to deal with people ' s expense ? I would argue that somebody from one of the big corporation , who actually understand something about run a salary and expense scheme , might be a lot well at do that , but such a person be not specify . I suspect that someone who have be a trade union official or a convener in a major company would have a much well idea about how to run such a system efficiently and effectively than someone who have never have such responsibility . I note that this individual have be a head of chamber , which would give they some understanding , but not of deal with several hundred people in the way that IPSA have to do . one of the problem we seem to have at the moment — this be what I want to highlight to the House — be that we have now erect a new priesthood . I find it very interesting that people complain about have bishop of the Church of England in the House of Lords , but almost everything now have to be allocate to a senior judge . these people have a lot of training and many of they be extremely intelligent , but that do not make they the only people in this country who have good judgment , be able to assess a case or be able to run something . almost everything now seem to be delegate to the lawyer and to the judiciary . I find it really rather amusing , entertaining and slightly surprising from the conservative party , give that its support newspaper be regularly castigate the judiciary on their front page , that for everything that relate to this House , it somehow seem to allocate they a special place and a special privilege . when we look through appointment not just to this board , but to the board of so many public body that come before this House , time and again the only people who be choose be the great and the good from various non - governmental organisation that get award — that be another tick in a box — or those who have serve on a number of quango . it be not someone who be actually run a business day to day , someone who be do the real job of work as a nurse or a doctor in a hospital , or a figure from the car industry , for example . none of those people get a look in , because we hand over this process to search consultant who keep fish in the same pool . we need to call that out and say that there be a great wealth of talent in this country . our class system , time and again , ignore that pool of talent in all walk of life , and we have even institutionalise it in the legislation set up the IPSA board . so I end as I begin — have we be close to 10 o ' clock , I might have feel the need to expand far , but we be not — by say that this be nothing to do with the individual concern . it be really to do with a self - perpetuate system that be basically about look after chum , and it be about time we change it . question put and agree to . Liaison Committee Motion make , and question propose , that , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 145 , the Liaison Committee shall have power to appoint specialist adviser in relation to its inquiry on strategic thinking in Government . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) since I object to this motion go through on the nod the other night , I be surprised that my right hon . friend the Leader of the House be move it formally instead of try to explain the background to this move . we have always have the system in this House that the Liaison Committee comprise those member who have be appoint by the House to be chair of Select Committees , and those chair meet together to comprise the Liaison Committee . the Liaison Committee be set up under Standing Order no . 145 . an appointment be make in this Parliament by the former Member for Uxbridge , Boris Johnson , who as Prime Minister listen sympathetically to representation make by my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) , say that he have not be appoint successfully to be elect to a Select Committee , and would it not be wonderful to break with precedent and create a new post for somebody who be not already a Select Committee Chair , but who would become Chair of the Liaison Committee . I have no objection to the decision that the former Prime Minister take in appoint my hon . friend as Chair of the Liaison Committee , but I be concerned that now , with his have be appoint to that Committee , we be engage in a bit of mission creep . Standing Order no . 145 specifie : " a select committee shall be appoint , to be call the Liaison Committee " , and its role shall be " to consider general matter relate to the work of select committee , to give such advice relate to the work of select committee as may be seek by the House of Commons Commission , and to report to the House its choice of select committee report to be debate on such day as may be appoint by the Speaker in pursuance of paragraph ( 15 ) of Standing Order no . 10 ( sitting in Westminster Hall ) . the committee may also hear evidence from the Prime Minister on matter of public policy . " we know that that be essentially the high - profile role of the Liaison Committee — to try to hold the Prime Minister to account . my hon . friend , as Chair of that Committee , play a significant role in try to hold the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , to account . perhaps the hon . Gentleman will correct I . be it right that we have a joint strategic Committee — I can not remember its exact name , but if I have know this subject be come up I would have look it up — which I think be chair by my right hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Margaret Beckett ) ? surely strategic issue , and strategic security and so on , should be within the remit of that Committee under our current structure . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we be not short of Committees in this House , and the purpose of Standing Order no . 145 be to set up a Liaison Committee — whether that be a useful exercise be for other to judge . it be approve and set up in the Standing Orders , but now , without vigilance on our part , we will find that that Liaison Committee be become almost like a Select Committee in its own right , and carry out its own inquiry — inquiry that could be carry out by any of the other individual Select Committees . now , in the motion on the Order Paper , it be seek funding for the appointment of special adviser to facilitate its work . it seem to I that the case for this measure have not be make . I be sorry , as I say early , that my right hon . friend the Leader of the House do not make the case at the beginning of this debate , instead of wait to respond to the debate later . refer again to Standing Order no . 145 , it state : " the committee shall report its recommendation as to the allocation of time for consideration by the House of the estimate on any day or half day which may be allot for that purpose ; and upon a motion be make that the House do agree with any such report the question shall be put forthwith and , if that question be agree to , the recommendation shall have effect as if they be order of the House . proceeding in pursuance of this paragraph , though oppose , may be decide after the expiration of the time for opposed business . " sub - paragraph ( 4 ) to ( 6 ) of that Standing Order state : " the committee shall have power to send for person , paper and record , to sit notwithstanding any adjournment of the House … and to report from time to time . unless the House otherwise order , each Member nominate to the committee shall continue to be a member of it for the remainder of the Parliament . the committee shall have power to appoint two sub - committee , one of which shall be a National Policy Statements sub - committee . " the Standing Order then set out what that sub - committee could be comprise of and what it would do . I be not aware of any such sub - committee on national policy statement have yet be appoint , but if I be wrong about that , I be sure I will be correct by my right hon . friend the Leader of the House . the Liaison Committee also have the power to set up another sub - committee if it so wish . each sub - committee have requirement about a quorum and the fact that it need to report minute of evidence and so on . it be clear from read that Standing Order that the Liaison Committee have a limited remit . it be particularly design to ensure that , because the Prime Minister do not answer and will not give evidence to other Select Committees , he come along regularly to the Liaison Committee and he be hold to account there . that be all very well , so why have we end up where we be today ? on the Order Paper , the motion state : " notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 145 " — the one to which I have be refer — " the Liaison Committee shall have power to appoint specialist adviser " — in the plural — " in relation to its inquiry on strategic thinking in Government . " it may well be that there be a shortage of strategic thinking in government and that that inquiry into the shortage of strategic thinking be require , but I be surprised that that inquiry be be conduct by the Liaison Committee , when any of the other Select Committees would be able to inquire into that issue in relation to their remit . the Liaison Committee have set up that inquiry on strategic thinking in government , and it want to have special adviser appoint , and I imagine pay out of the public purse , to provide advice to the Committee , which be , as I emphasise , a Select Committee in name , but not by nature . this be an example of mission creep . I have the privilege of speak early to my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex , the Chairman of the Liaison Committee , who draw to my attention the press release issue by the Liaison Committee on 22 June this year . it state : " the Liaison Committee be launch an inquiry into select committee scrutiny of strategic thinking across Whitehall . " in other word , it be try to find out whether Select Committees be up to the task of scrutinise strategic thinking across government . that would be fair enough , one might think . however , when one look at the small print , the Chair ' s comment and the term of reference , one find that , far from be an inquiry into Select Committee scrutiny of strategic thinking across Whitehall , this be an inquiry into strategic thinking across whitehall — nothing to do with the Select Committees , for which the Liaison Committee have be specifically establish . the hon Gentleman be generous in give way once again . I have be listen to he expand on that point . would it not be more appropriate for such an inquiry to be conduct by the Public Accounts Committee , which have inevitably undertake similar study into thinking because of the resource consequence that arise from strategic thinking , or the lack thereof ? be that not the appropriate route ? that , in my view , would be wholly appropriate . why do the National Audit Office , which feed into much of the Public Accounts Committee ' s work , not get involve if it think that this be a big issue ? incidentally , today , the National Audit Office report on the Government ' s hospital building programme , and I find in the small print that Christchurch hospital be no long part of the 40 hospital be build — it have be withdraw from the programme and will be add to a future programme . that be rightly criticise by the National Audit Office , and that be a current example of why we need proper scrutiny . to return to what the Liaison Committee say it want to do in this new inquiry , the Chair ' s comment be : " major event such as Brexit , covid - 19 and Ukraine demonstrate the need for long - term planning and delivery across multiple department and across the duration of several Parliaments , as well as the importance of successful collaboration with our international partner . as the pace of event over recent year have show , the Government need to be more agile in its ambition — and it should also be coordinate across department and sustainable over time . select committee provide a mirror to Government policy and practice . their work have demonstrate the value of cross - party check and balance on departmental strategic thinking . this inquiry by the Liaison Committee will consider how select committee can improve scrutiny of strategic thinking in government as the UK confront the major question we face in the near and long - term future . well scrutiny of strategic thinking by Parliament will contribute to well strategic thinking within Government . " I be sorry that I be not able to pr é cis that , Madam Deputy Speaker ; that be one of the issue we have , as a Parliament and with the government — there be too much verbosity in these sort of announcement — but be that as it may . I then look at the term of reference , expect that they would be exclusively direct to strategic thinking in Select Committees and the Select Committee ' s control over strategic thinking in government , but the call for evidence — member and other be tell that they must send in write evidence by Friday 15 September — state : " the Committee be look for evidence on : example of good practice of strategic thinking in Government , include : how well Government identify strategic opportunity as well as strategic risk and threat ; how effectively Government use internal and external challenge ; how feedback loop " — whatever those be — " be use to ensure that lesson from delivery be fully consider when develop future strategic plan ; " and " how no . 10 and the Cabinet Office should well lead on these issue across government " . that be one item . the second item be : " what government should publish or explain about its overall strategic concept . " surely , the section that the hon . Gentleman have just read out — there may be more of it — be in the remit of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee ? absolutely . I do not know — perhaps we will find out later — the extent to which the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee have be consult on this and have agree that , on Government strategic thinking , it will have its role usurp by the Liaison Committee . I be sure that all will be reveal in due course . if my hon . friend want to intervene on these issue , I will be happy to take intervention . the next item of the term of reference be : " what additional machinery of Government , knowledge and skill be necessary to support strategic thinking and effective strategy and delivery , both within individual department , and across two or more department , and how strategy and strategic thinking can be sustain by build consensus between the main party " . the fourth item on which evidence can be give be : " which government around the world demonstrate good practice in strategic thinking " . that be an opportunity for some overseas visit , no doubt , to go and see which government across the world be demonstrate good practice in strategic thinking . the next item of the term of reference — the sixth — contain the first reference to Select Committees : " how Select committee consider strategic question , include any recent example of scrutiny of Government strategic plan and / or their delivery ; and element of government strategy - and delivery that be repeatedly identify by Select Committees as effective or as deficient " . at least that item on which evidence be seek be relevant to the purported nature of the inquiry . the next item in the term of reference be : " the engagement of individual department , and Whitehall as a whole , with Select Committees on strategic challenge , include through the provision of information necessary for effective scrutiny . " the next one be : " what additional resource " — more taxpayer ' s money be go into this , I can see — " parliamentary procedure , knowledge and skill be necessary to support effective Select Committee scrutiny of strategic thinking and effective strategy - making , as well as monitor implementation of any Government action in response " . this be a great one : " how other parliament around the world be engage with the strategic thinking of their respective government . " well , what an inquiry . it could take year , could it not ? Woe betide whoever be appoint a special adviser under the term of the motion before we . they will need to be handsomely remunerate , will they not , for the time and effort they put into the inquiry ? they will have a global remit . I speak as a member of two Select Committees — the Procedure Committee and the Environmental Audit Committee . the Environmental Audit Committee be cross - cut and look at the effect of the Government ' s environmental policy across a whole range of area . the Liaison Committee seem to be create a new cross - cut Select Committee cover public administration , strategic thinking , oversee democracy and so on . I want to hear the justification for that , what the cost be likely to be and how this idea ever get a start . be it discuss by the Liaison Committee ? do it agree those very wide term of reference ? do it think through the implication ? in support the motion , have the Leader of the House think through exactly what that strategic thinking be all about ? I apologise for not be in the Chamber for the start of the debate , but I have be listen to my hon . friend carefully on the television . order . can I just say to the right hon . Gentleman that it be absolutely customary to be in at the start of a speech if the right hon . Gentleman be go to intervene ? this be such an important debate and my hon . friend be raise such an important point about the fundamental of the Liaison Committee . do I understand from what he be say that the Committee would need to change its name if it take on those responsibility , because its job be simply liaison , not to go far than that ? absolutely . that be why I be worried about the mission creep . we have the Liaison Committee proposal set out in the press release to which I have be refer , but it bear little resemblance to the motion on the Order Paper , which state that " the Liaison Committee shall have power to appoint specialist adviser in relation to its inquiry on strategic thinking in Government . " its inquiry purport to be on the ability of Select Committees to scrutinise strategic thinking across Government , which be completely different . as anybody who have be listen to the term of reference will know , it be not limit to strategic thinking across our government , but restrict to strategic thinking across all government that be member of the United Nations . so it have an enormously wide remit . I must say that I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex , the Chair of the Committee , on his imagination and breadth of vision . he could have a job for life fulfil this important role . but our job in question matter like this , which be put on the Order Paper and would otherwise go through on the nod , be to say , " well , hang on a minute , what be we about ? have the member of the rest of the Select Committees think about the implication , the cost and the dangerous precedent that be be set ? " it be only in this Parliament that we get the exception to have a Chair of the Liaison Committee who be not already a Chair of another Select Committee , but how will the member of the Liaison Committee be able to give their time and devotion to this particular subject ? for example , I be a member of one of the Committees that very much deal with strategy and strategic thinking : the Defence Committee . I be not aware — I may have miss it — that there have be any reference to that Committee on whether it think this move be appropriate or not . well , there we have it , Madam Deputy Speaker . and I see my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex , the Chair of the Liaison Committee , at the Bar of the House . I do not know whether he intend to participate in this debate . the hon . Gentleman ought to know that it be very difficult for the Member who have just come in to participate in the debate , when he have already be speak for nearly 25 minute . I have assume that he have inform the hon . member that he be go to refer to he . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be talk to my hon . friend the Chair of the Committee early on today and he give I — I be not sure that quite count as inform he that you be go to mention he in a debate , but I assume that that be what you be indicate . I be indicate that I be refer to he in the debate , because he indeed give I the Liaison Committee term of reference and the press release , include the quote from himself . since he be the Chair of the Liaison Committee , I be rather surprised that he have not make himself available to participate in this debate , particularly give that it be all about a much more important role for that Committee , which he have the privilege of chairing . I have not realise , Madam Deputy Speaker , when I rise to my foot at the beginning of this debate , that my hon . friend be not actually in his place . I now see that he be not in his place but at the Bar of the House . but because of what you say — the debate perhaps start early than he expect — he will not now be able to participate in it and will have to rely on the Leader of the House to put the case , which he would otherwise be able to put himself , as to why this proposal do not amount to an expensive and unnecessary mission creep on the part of the Liaison Committee . it be , in my view , probably unique to this Parliament that we have a Chair of the Liaison Committee who be not already the Chair of another Committee . I wonder how the member of the Liaison Committee , all of whom be chair of other Committees , will physically be able to get to grip with the enormous subject of the quality of strategic thinking across the world , because that be what we be talk about . the House will know that I be second to none in my admiration for my hon . friend , but I actually be a member of the Liaison Committee , and I think that — in draw his comment to a close — he will , like I , welcome any progress in strategic thinking in Government , and particularly in this Government . I be all in favour of more strategic thinking , and I know that my hon . friend be a great exemplar of it . he have deploy that talent over many year in the House , and continue so to do . but I be disappoint , in a sense , that in his intervention he do not address the issue of mission creep , and why this subject can not be deal with by the Public Administration Committee or by other Select Committees that have already be set up under the rule of the House . he do disclose to we that he be a member of the Liaison Committee , although he do not say how enthusiastic he be about be able to participate in the evidence gathering and the consideration of the evidence that be gather in conjunction with this particular remit of set out the inquiry on strategic thinking in Government . it often happen that towards the end of a Parliament the Government be try to think beyond the next general election , and perhaps , in propose this motion , my hon . friend the Chair of the Liaison Committee be think beyond this Parliament to the next . perhaps he be think that the Liaison Committee in that Parliament may have some unfinished business in relation to its inquiry on strategic thinking , and that the specialist adviser will be champ at the bit , want their remuneration to be extend to an inquiry that will continue — dare one say , ad infinitum ? maybe ; I do not know . but I think that something like this should not go through the House without member have be alert to its potential consequence and implication , which be why I have speak about the motion in this way . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way again ; he be be very generous . accord to his reading on the background of the Committee , do it intend to hold hearing and evidence session , and would that mean that all the Select Committee Chairs would have to attend weekly session in order to hear the evidence and then prepare the report ? that be a very good point . the Committee be specifically call for write evidence . normally , when Select Committees call for write evidence and that evidence come in , they decide that the most compelling evidence should probably be supplement by oral evidence from those who have submit the write evidence . it be , I presume , implicit in the fact that the Committee have invite write evidence that it will also receive oral evidence and will cross - examine , or question , some of the people who have submit that write evidence , whether it be from member of the Australian Parliament , the Canadian Parliament or the Hungarian Parliament . who know , but I imagine that they will be hold oral evidence session . as the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) imply , if an oral evidence session be not within the remit of the one of the specific Sub - Committees of the Liaison Committee , to which I refer early , there will be a need for a quorum and for people to be there pay close attention to the evidence . where be we go ? this be essentially a new Select Committee that be be expand to cover everybody else ' s area of responsibility so that it can have a grandiose role . it be not sufficient for it to be able to hold the Prime Minister to account and allocate question to the Prime Minister among Liaison Committee member — now we be get into the whole area not of the role of Select Committees in hold the Government to account on their strategic challenge , but of the strategic challenge in toto . in summary , what I be really say be that I despair . I despair that this proposal have reach the stage it have . I look forward to hear an explanation from the Leader of the House about why she think this be a good move . I hope that she will be able to explain how our fear and concern about dangerous precedent can be allay . strategic thinking be perhaps just the start of a takeover bid by the Liaison Committee of almost all the other subject that be the remit of individual Select Committees at the moment . who know ? in the absence of any contribution from the Chair of the Liaison Committee himself , we depend on the knowledge that the Leader of the House have gain from the briefing that she have no doubt receive , as I do , from the Liaison Committee . I be all in favour of strategic thinking and of scrutinise the Government ' s strategic thinking , but I do not think that this be the right way forward . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I , through you , apologise for not have be present from the start of these proceeding ? I be not expect this business to be debate this evening ; I should have be more alert , as my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) have be , to the possibility that it would be . I would not consider it appropriate to try to catch your eye to make a contribution to this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker — unless you deem it appropriate . I do say that if the right hon . Gentleman want to make a contribution , he should have be here at the beginning . may I clarify whether he be tell that he would be refer to in the debate ? I do not think we need to make an issue of that , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be go to say that if the right hon . Gentleman have not be tell , it would be perfectly reasonable for he to make a contribution . in the circumstance , I be prepared to allow he to make a one - minute contribution . I be most grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I appreciate the courtesy be extend to I . first , I should reiterate that there be support among all the Select Committee Chairs for the inquiry . secondly , the issue be about the effectiveness of Select Committee scrutiny . many Select Committees find it difficult to obtain information about long - term challenge face this country , particularly if they be cross - departmental issue . the Select Committee ' s inquiry will be concentrate on that . thirdly , there be ample precedent for Liaison Committee inquiry into the effectiveness of the Select Committee system . that be what the Liaison Committee exist to do and it be firmly within its remit . we be confine ourselves to that . I be delighted to hear from my hon . friend that the Liaison Committee will confine itself to that but , in that case , why be the term of reference call for write evidence by 15 September so widely set that they cover — I will not repeat all those point , Madam Deputy Speaker — which government around the world demonstrate good practice in strategic thinking ? there be also reference to strategic thinking about Select Committees — Order . I want to call the Leader of the House , so I do not want the hon . Gentleman to read out a list . I be most grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who be talk about the context of the inquiry . how can we conduct the inquiry in a vacuum , without reference to what happen in other country , what other Parliaments be do to scrutinise long - term strategic thinking , and what other government be do in response ? there be a strong public interest in this , and I have hold a very close interest in the subject matter , which he generously acknowledge . this be not a threat to Select Committees . the Chairman of the Defence Committee , on which the right hon . member for Warley ( John Spellar ) sit , have support this inquiry , and I hope he will take part . we do not imagine that we will have a great number of oral evidence session , because Select Committee Chairs be so busy . much of this will be conduct on a desktop basis through write evidence , rather than through oral evidence session . I hope that clarify it for the House , and I be most grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make a contribution under these circumstance . I thank all member who have take part in the debate . I table today ' s motion follow a request from the Chairman of the Liaison Committee , with the blessing of the Liaison Committee . I be facilitate that request . on mission creep , the Chairman of the Liaison Committee have set out why the inquiry be take place , but hon . member should note that the change we be make limit the appointment of special adviser to this particular inquiry . the appointment will be make within the current budget envelope . member may be interested to know that , as the shadow Leader of the House will verify , the Commission discuss the work of Select Committees at its last meeting — those minute have be publish — and the Finance Committee be take a great role in scrutinise the work of Select Committees and ensure value for money . we be not here to debate the merit of this particular inquiry , although hon . member will know the previous work of the Chairman of the Liaison Committee in this area . what we be here to decide be whether the Committee should have a special adviser to assist it in this particular inquiry . I commend the motion to the House . question put and agree to . business without Debate Transport Ordered , that Chris Loder be discharge from the Transport Committee and Sara Britcliffe be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Covid - 19 pandemic : Fiscal Policies Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) the austerity programme have be one of the most damaging policy our country have see in decade , and one statistic demonstrate its complete failure : there be more than 300 , 000 excess death between 2012 and 2019 . More than 300 , 000 people die as a result of austerity — they be human being , with family and friend . like we , they have aspiration and dream , but now they be go , perhaps because of decision make in Departments and in this House . that be an injustice ; after all , the first duty of the British Government be to keep their citizen safe and the country secure . be those 300 , 000 people keep safe ? evidently , they be not . that be the sort of statistic that future generation will read and wonder how on earth we could have allow it to happen . the subject of my debate be fiscal policy and the covid - 19 pandemic , but what I want to get at be the extent to which austerity leave we unprepared for the pandemic . I start with that statistic to present the situation in Britain prior to the outbreak of the virus . my speech will discuss healthcare , and the Minister may think , " what ' s this get to do with the Treasury ? " . I hope that I can convince he on that by say that our health service require money from his Department , because what matter about cut be their effect . it be clear that the austerity programme hollow out our welfare state , include the NHS . to be ready for a pandemic , we need a strong healthcare system , but we just do not have that in 2020 . I be outrage by former Prime Minister David Cameron and former Chancellor George Osborne at the covid inquiry . they deny that their austerity programme have any impact on the pandemic , and it be especially chilling watch George Osborne . their justification for austerity be at odd with scientific evidence and opinion , which I shall outline . in their expert evidence to the covid - 19 inquiry last month , Professor Clare Bambra and Professor Sir Michael Marmot state that austerity policy post - 2010 have an adverse effect on health inequality ; that health inequality narrow in the period of high public expenditure , from about 2000 to 2010 , but widen again post 2010 — I commend the hon . Lady for secure this debate . she be right to say that covid have affect health , but it have also affect finance . do she agree that covid - 19 will have ripple effect upon finance for year to come , and that many people be now grapple with the reality of price increase at a great rate than wage ? do she also agree that the Government must take hold of the financial market once again with a firm grasp and with a strategy to help family in my constituency and her , and indeed across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention , and I will come on to that issue in my speech . he be completely right that there will be an ongoing impact on future generation not only from covid , but from the impact on the public purse . the scientific research also find that between 2000 and 2010 , geographical inequality such as infant mortality rate and life expectancy be reduce , but they then increase after 2010 . why do that happen ? it be about money . by 2019 - 20 , after a series of austerity Budgets , health spending be about £ 50 billion below what it should have be have it match previous Government commitment . this far surpass the much - vaunted cash injection of £ 20 billion between 2019 and 2024 as part of the NHS long - term plan . that level be too little , too late for what be to come . the result of austerity be not hard to find right across the NHS , with one of the more tangible measure be bed capacity . between 2010 - 11 and 2019 - 20 , the average daily total of available bed contract by 8 . 3 % — nearly 13 , 000 bed . Britain have less than half the number of critical care bed relative to its population than the average in OECD European Union nation . Austerity also mean year of pay cap and pay freeze . in other word , there be pay cut , in real term , for NHS worker . they be earn thousand of pound less in real term in 2019 than in 2010 . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) look at the situation with the Nightingale hospital . they be a good idea in theory , but there be not enough worker available . it be like a sketch in " Yes Minister " — a hospital with no patient , only in this case there be no worker either . since the coalition Government ' s Health and Social Care Act 2012 , which throw all the piece of the NHS up into the air , no single entity have be responsible for workforce planning . consequently , staff over the past decade have be poor and disjoint , and there have be a lack of the staffing projection need to ensure we have enough health worker to meet demand . so work become more intense , with more turnover and more burnout . this be before the pandemic and should have be a warning signal to the Government . let we not forget the removal of the nurse ' bursary in 2016 , which lead to a decline in nursing application in the ensue year . that have contribute to nursing number not keep pace with demand . in the first quarter of 2019 - 20 , the number of nursing vacancy increase to over 40 , 000 . I know the government U - turn on that , but why do it happen in the first place ? staff shortage put enormous pressure on NHS worker . I do not want to be too sentimental , but I do not know how they do it during the pandemic . the demand put on those worker be enormous and the fortitude and resilience of NHS worker be remarkable . in addition , a lack of personal protective equipment cause they huge level of stress , risk their mental and physical health . how about we start show a bit of gratitude by give they the pay rise they have ask for ? public health , which be such a vital part of our defence , have be the victim of a toxic combination of austerity and ill thought through structural change . as a result , we go into the pandemic with public health service that be ill equip to handle the arrival of covid . as part of the coalition Government ' s 2012 reform , public health function be separate from the NHS and put into local authority , which I and other member of the health system welcome . between 2015 and 2020 , the local authority public health grant fall by around a quarter in real term . between 2016 and 2019 , Public Health England ' s budget be cut by 12 % . restructuring of the workforce result in experience bleed away . the number of people work in public health be not enough to meet demand . by 2021 , England need almost 60 % more public health specialist to reach level recommend by the Faculty of Public Health . the voice and influence of public health specialist have be increasingly stifle , and the value place in their expertise diminish . Britain be severely on the back foot when the pandemic hit we in early 2020 . the NHS be operate without enough staff , there be not enough bed and our building be outdate . the failure to ensure that the NHS be properly staff and resource in the decade lead up to the pandemic mean that when the pandemic arrive , there be no capacity to meet the increase in demand . Sickness absence from covid shrunk an already deplete workforce , and the need to separate group of patient limit capacity far . that mean drastic measure such as pause nearly all routine care in hospital , redeploy staff and register medical student early . there be no doubt that both staff and patient be put in harm ' s way because of the historic underfunding , under - resourcing and austerity . can the Government say that they be not warn ? no , they can not . mp , trade union and even the United Nations all warn the Government . when the UN say that the result of the austerity experiment be " crystal clear " — that our social security net have be tear asunder by austerity — the Government say that they regret the " overtly political tone " of the UN ' s report . Cameron and Osborne ' s project fail on its own term : the book be not , as they often tell we , balanced . in fact , we be all bad off because of their action . history will not absolve they , because , with austerity , there be always a price to pay . thousand of people be dead , and our welfare state be push to the brink . austerity severely impact our response to the pandemic , and it must never happen again . the Government have several fiscal event until the next election , and they can change thing if they want to . I congratulate the hon . member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) on secure this evening ' s debate . in debate the Government ' s fiscal policy , as in so many thing , it be all important to set out the context . when the Government be first elect , it be in the immediate wake of the global financial crisis . it be also after we inherit a situation that have lead to the Labour Chief Secretary to the Treasury leave a note — we all remember that note — that say , " there be , I be afraid , no money leave . " in the year precede the covid - 19 pandemic , the Government ' s fiscal strategy — the only fiscal strategy — be to reduce the deficit and debt that Labour have leave we . as a long - stand finance director myself before come to this place , I know that Government need to live within their mean and show responsibility when entrust with people ' s hard - earn money . that be the time to repair the nation ' s finance — before a storm would strike . when the deficit reach 7 . 5 % of gdp in 2008 - 09 , government decision support its reduction to 2 . 7 % of gdp by 2019 - 20 . that approach develop the financial buffer to help absorb the impact of future economic shock , such as we see in the pandemic . yet despite that period , and rather belie what the hon . Lady say , we have still be able to provide departmental spending today that will be around £ 75 billion a year more , in real term , by 2027 than in 2010 . it be no wonder , then , that at the time when we take that approach , it receive the support of Parliament . it be in line with the recommendation then for good practice . for example , the 2017 fiscal risk report of the independent Office for Budget Responsibility say that " the public finance need to be manage prudently during more favourable time to ensure that when these shock do crystallise they do not put the public finance onto an unsustainable path . " that be why , when the pandemic hit , we be well place to borrow to provide quick , decisive and consistent support to household and business throughout the country , which at that time have significant support from member on both side of the House . estimate from the International Monetary Fund show that the UK ' s discretionary fiscal expansion in response to covid - 19 — the support that we give household — be one of the large and most comprehensive financial support package globally . to fund that response , we have to borrow an additional £ 313 billion — a huge amount of money — across 2021 and 2022 , but we could not have do that have we not make the difficult decision . have we not act , the cost to the country would have be far high . member will remember the support that we provide , include the furlough scheme , which support nearly 12 million job in total , hold our economy together in incredibly tough time . I note that some 420 , 000 of those job be in the north - east , and that since the pandemic have end the north - east have have the third - high increase in employee number relative to pre - pandemic level . the economy in the north - east have be one of the fast growing . I also note that , as be sadly so often the case on such occasion , the hon . member for City of Durham have no alternative plan to lay out . I do not know whether she agree with the North of Tyne Mayor , Jamie Driscoll , who today say , in respect of the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) : " you ' ve U - turn on so many promise … in fact , a list of broken promise too long to repeat in this letter . " I do not know whether she have see the letter from Jamie Driscoll , or whether she agree with the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) or the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras on an issue like the two child policy . our policy be clear . I do not think that it be appropriate for the Opposition to hold two policy simultaneously in respect of the two child policy . when we look back on the pandemic , and on our fiscal approach both during and in the run - up to it , the Government believe that we can be confident that we act responsibly . we take difficult decision on the back of the financial situation that we inherit , allow we , when that terrible pandemic break above our head , to protect livelihood up and down the country , and ensure that we could afford to do so and could bounce back afterwards , as we have do subsequently . that was , and remain , sound , responsible fiscal policy . I understand that not every Member of this House will agree with the decision take . I hope that the hon . member for City of Durham will recognise that many people on both side of this House do their good in those most difficult time . I be quite surprised and confused . I give statistic about how many death there be , and specialist across the board , include the United Nations , have point out the damage do by the austerity programme . I have no idea why you mention the two child limit . it would have be really helpful if you have stick to the point of my debate . order . the hon . Lady know that she must not address the Minister directly . I will not delay we on the two child policy — the Labour party ' s two - policy policy . perhaps it be a detour too far for the hon . Lady . I make that point just to illustrate that these be difficult decision for those on both side of the House , as it turn out . I recognise the hon . Lady ' s passion and congratulate she again on secure the debate . it be clearly a topic that she rightly feel strongly about , and I apologise if I have not fully address all her concern . it be of course a topic that the independent inquiry be address , and I , and I expect the House , look forward to hear the outcome of that inquiry in due course . question put and agree to . House adjourn .