prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . Miriam Cates Nicholas Fletcher Nickie Aiken Tonia Antoniazzi Paul Bristow Lyn Brown Nick Brown Felicity Buchan Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Maria Caulfield Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Chris Clarkson Elliot Colburn Ashley Dalton Gareth Davies Dehenna Davison Anneliese Dodds Ben Everitt Simon fall Mark Fletcher Mike Freer Louie French Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson John Glen Chris Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Robert Halfon Greg Hands Neale Hanvey Rebecca Harris Philip Hollobone Rachel Hopkins Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Darren Jones Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Rebecca Long - Bailey Scott Mann John Martin McDonnell Robin Millar Amanda Milling Andrew Murrison Caroline noke Kate Osborne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Chris Philp Luke Pollard Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Alex Sobel Christian Wakeford Jamie Wallis Matt Western Nadia Whittome James Wild Mike Wood Mark Jenkinson Amanda Solloway the House divide : Ayes 0 , Noes 64 . question accordingly negative . Conversion Practices ( prohibition ) Bill — [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] second reading [ relevant document : correspondence between the Petitions Committee and the Minister for Equalities , on conversion practice , report to the House on 21 November and 14 December 2023 ; e - petition 613556 , Ensure Trans people be fully protect under any conversion therapy ban ; and e - petition 300976 , make LGBT conversion therapy illegal in the UK . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . when my former partner disclose to I that he have twice go through conversion practice , first facilitate through his family in church and secondly through his work in the church , I be shock that such practice still take place in the 21st century . the trauma he still carry around with he be immense . no number of law can rewrite history , but we can pledge , as all the main party do in 2019 , to ensure that no one go through the trauma that he and many other still have in the future . in recent year , we have have two petition debate , four debate in Parliament , four write statement and set of Government research , consultation and briefing , but in six year , we have fail to do what other country have do in six month , which be to produce a ban that stop people falsely claim that they can convert people ' s sexual orientation or transgender identity . that false hope — false advertising , as it be — be not innocuous , and it cause great harm , but it be not currently capture in our law . despite all the main party agree that this be an area we must act on , the issue have be put in the " too hard " box . the Government have consult on it and year have pass , catch in a culture war where survivor be forget . the Government ' s Bill , with its bell and whistle , seek perfection , but delay have allow the practice to go unimpeded , and that be of no use to man or beast . I congratulate my hon . friend on bring the Bill forward . to pick up on that point , it be strike how long this have take compare with other nation . the stalling come from Government , when surely we be simply seek to protect vulnerable people , seem a little obvious . do he agree that any ban need to be inclusive of all LGBT + people ? I totally agree . everyone in the House will know that I be not immune to get stick into this debate . we have have spar partner across the Chamber on these issue , but that have lead we nowhere . it have lead to the delay itself and give a green light to many who think this practice might now be acceptable , rather than the abhorrence we all think it to be . the hon . Gentleman make the important and strong inference that this be a commonplace occurrence . will he give some evidence of the distribution of conversion practice , their incidence , and who be be affect ? what be the true datum on the matter ? I will come to exactly that in a moment , but the hon . Member make valid point that we should address . some be worry when I be draw in the private Member ' s Bill ballot that I would produce , as one Whip put it , a " batshit crazy " Bill . other be worried that I would produce a Bill that would not stop this practice and would have too many loophole . but after month of meeting , quiet conversation , go on BBC " Politics Live " , offer a meeting to anyone who want one and meet colleague across this House , all with different view , I hope that the word of the same Whip , say " Blimey , he ' s actually produce something quite sensible " will ring in the ear of everyone in this debate . I congratulate my hon . friend on this incredibly important Bill . a number of constituent have write passionately to I about it . accord to the UK Government ' s own research , 7 % of LGBT people have be offer or have undergone conversion therapy . that indicate that in the last five year thousand of people have be at risk of harm . do he agree that the scale of it must be recognise , and that it must stop ? I quite agree . I understand from previous conversation that the Government do not outright oppose the Bill — we will see how the Minister respond today , as that might have slightly change . it be quite right that they do not oppose it , because they have put forward this proposal numerous time . they be reserve judgment on some of the technicality . I have give the Government two opportunity to propose amendment in the public consultation that I have run . they propose no amendment . in fact , the Government agree to do pre - legislative scrutiny of their own Bill but , six month later , that have not happen . on 31 January 2023 I table an amendment to the Online Safety Bill on conversion therapy . we have the number , but I tell the Government that if they say in a write ministerial statement and on the Floor of this House that they would commit to pre - legislative security that would be complete by October , I would not push the amendment . I do not push the amendment because that commitment be give . do the hon . member agree that we have be bring to this place because the Government have not deliver on their manifesto commitment , despite have make promise on the Floor of this House to conservative member ? I quite agree . that be why it be important that the Government support the Bill , and thrash out the detail later in Committee . when I meet the Secretary of State we talk about two - track progress : get the Bill in Committee , and use it to thrash out the detail and allow the Government to keep develop their own plan , inform by the Committee . I hope the Government will honour the spirit of those discussion as I have enter into this process . I hope we can have a full debate and get to a natural end . but if need be , with the permission of Mr Speaker and the Deputy Speakers , I believe that we have the number to divide on a closure motion . it would be much well to air the view of the House without divide , and allow this new collaborative tone to sort out the issue in Committee . I remind hon . member that Conservative Members have table two amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill that provide less protection and , rather than the fine under my Bill , prison sentence . this be an opportunity to get consensus before far - reach measure be push to a vote in this House . if this Bill be talk out today , I will support those measure . I will spend the rest of my speech on the technical aspect of the Bill and why we have come to the judgment that we have . much of that be outline in my explanatory note , which my office have draft . I be sure that other colleague will want to talk about the experience of their constituent , and I be happy to take as many intervention as I can , but I will try to make some progress . this be not a debate on the wide trans issue — that will continue outside the Bill — or the merit of affirm or exploratory healthcare . we have the Cass review , and other evidence will come forward down the line . this be a framework Bill on conversion practice . it be not the same as the scottish proposal or proposal in other country . it address the concern raise in the House of Lords , and I thank Baroness Burt for introduce a Bill to allow those view to be express . I have take they on board . I beg member to focus on the Bill , not the adjunct . however interesting the wide debate may be , this be a debate about how we ensure that people do not have a premeditate purpose to intend to change someone ' s sexual orientation and transgender identity — term that exist in british law today . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way , and I want to put on record that he have be absolutely brilliant in engage with a whole range of colleague — he be absolutely correct . I appreciate that he do not want the debate to become about the transgender issue , as he say , but the Bill state that " ' conversion practice ' mean a course of conduct or activity , the … intent of which be to change someone ' s … to or from be transgender , " so the idea of be transgender , or the definition of transgender , be very much at the centre of it . whether the Bill accurately define what that mean be key to whether it can be effective . that be exactly why I have use word that already exist in legislation . we can have that debate on the Sentencing Act 2020 and on the Equality Act 2010 — I wish you good luck in that — but rather than try to debate thing that this House have already settle , let we move forward with how we try to stop these practice . I join my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) in her remark about the engagement we have have , and I be sure that we will have a civil debate today . the hon . Gentleman refer to the definition of transgender identity as already exist in legislation . it do , in the Sentencing Act to which he refer , but can he give we further information on that definition ? as I read it , it be simply a reference to whether transgender be an aggravating factor in a criminal offence ; it do not provide the definition we need . so his Bill will entrench in law that totally undefined concept . I will come to the hon . Gentleman ' s point and will suggest an amendment that might , if he be to allow it to proceed in Committee , make he feel happy and resolve the situation . surely the entire point of the Bill be what my hon . friend be already address , which be that the practice be evil : it be evil against gay people , evil against lesbian people , and evil against transgender people . if it be abhorrent for everyone , it be abhorrent for everyone , so it should be tackle . I totally agree . in the process of write the Bill , I endeavour to meet everyone who ask . I visit people in their community across the country and I invite people to meet in this place . I want to thank various group , include Stonewall , the Ban Conversion Therapy campaign group , TransActual , TransLucent , and the medical profession . but I also want to thank people who have very different view from mine , who I have meet and listen to : the Christian Institute , Keira Bell and her lawyer , the LGB Alliance and the Gay Men ' s Network , to name a few . I have engage with all in good faith . I have consider and , in most case , adopt suggestion that each one of those group have make to make the Bill well . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . he be make a very powerful point and I commend he for the amount of work he have obviously do to reassure people . I think we be all aware that at the moment the debate around transgender issue have become incendiary and difficult , and a lot of damage have be do to a lot of people . one thing I find about his Bill be that , if I be read it correctly , it aim to be reassure . there be no attempt to stop people discuss their sexuality , there be no attempt to stop they discuss it with people from whom they might want to take advice , and there be no attempt whatsoever to stop they try to explore the issue on their own . it be simply protect they from unwanted interference and traumatic attempt to change they . that be why the predetermine purpose be so important in the Bill . rather than have argument about which evidence be well , I have seek a way to find a framework that address the real or perceive problem of what it be claim be happen in any direction . I think we should all agree that it be abuse and the Bill will stop it . I understand the nervousness of some in the trans community who have be subject to a decade of victimisation , but the Bill will protect and support they . I understand the wariness of many counsellor and psychotherapist who have be attack in one direction or another , and who be flee the profession because of the lack of guideline in this area . the Bill will help to re - set the debate with a framework that focus on predetermine purpose . it mean that if you explore or support people through a process , you will always be protect . when people insist that you must have a predetermine outcome in mind at the start of a process , you will now have the guideline and can push back , say , " that be not within the scope of what I can do in law . " I congratulate my hon . friend on the Bill . Childline have talk about how young people have contact they feel torn and talk about what they be go through . they need a safe , non - judgmental space . do he agree that his Bill will do just that ? I hope it do . yesterday , all the major counselling , therapeutic and health organisation provisionally agree an indicative vote to support the Bill , with no organisation vote against . the British Medical Association and the Royal College of Nursing support a ban on conversion practice . let we come to the evidence I have be ask for . the Government themselves do a survey in 2017 , and more recently commission a piece of work in 2023 , indicate that this be a live issue . accord to the research , one in five people have be subject to someone try to change , cure or suppress their sexual orientation or transgender identity . More than one in five people from a religious and faith background , and one in six from a non - religious background , have experience conversion therapy . when the hon . member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) attend one of my drop - in briefing on the Bill , he ask about the number of young people who have be affect by such practice . in a weighted YouGov survey — use its usual weighting metric — of 2 , 000 people in 2023 , 10 % of those age over 65 say they have undergo or be offer conversion therapy , whereas the figure be 8 % for 16 to 17 - year - old , and 7 % for 18 to 34 - year - old — shockingly high . it show that this be a live issue . it be the same with the NSPCC , as we have hear : over 50 young people phone its helpline last year , say that they be be threaten with , or subject to , conversion practice . I know that some member would prefer to bring in a ban on sexual orientation conversion practice — LGB only — and not touch on the transgender element . there be a couple of reason why I think that would be a foolish approach . first , the Government have themselves carry out review and repeatedly say that we need a trans - inclusive ban . in fact , Ministers have say that trans conversion be their main concern . they can not say it be a huge concern that people might be convert from be transgender , and then say we do not need a ban on either - way conversion therapy . secondly , we must recognise that LGB and transgender be separate , but they be interlink . People explore their sexual orientation will sometimes come to consider their transgender status . to not include transgender would allow a loophole whereby people who want to force someone to be gay , but not tran , could claim that they be offer transgender therapy , rather than lgb therapy , which would make the Bill useless . thirdly , there be pretty well - establish research on the LGB conversion therapy problem , but there be significant and grow research , from Britain and around the world , that conversion therapy be a problem for the transgender community as well . in fact , the Minister for Women and Equalities , the right hon . member for Saffron Walden ( Kemi Badenoch ) , say in a letter on 7 February that she have significant evidence that child might be subject to conversion practice for be transgender . I have not see the evidence — I do not endorse it per se — but I have see significant account from many survivor who have be force not to be transgender . all side be say this be happen . the direction of conversion be irrelevant , but it be an indication that we need to take action , and my Bill do so . my hon . Friend mention the NSPCC ' s report on the challenge that young people be face about sexuality and gender identity . the finding include that 3 , 400 child and young people in the last year want to talk to counsellor about their worry about sexuality or gender identity . some of these child describe instance of emotional abuse in the family home , include constant shouting , hurtful comment and threat of violence . some child have be threaten with , or have undergo , some form of conversion practice intend to cure their sexuality or gender identity . do my hon . friend agree that , in pass this Bill , we will help prevent more child from be subject to that , and send a clear message that we will not allow people to suffer the painful abuse of so - call conversion practice ? I quite agree . this Bill stop parent send their child to conversion practice ; it do not promise to solve the world for LGBT people . I can not promise that parent will not shout or be abusive , or that people will not say nasty thing — I be afraid that be the nature of a democratic society sometimes . but what we can do be stop premeditate purpose , process , course of conduct and activity that aim to do something that can not be do . that be what every other Bill in the world on this topic have do . the Bill go in both direction . whatever the direction of the conversion , it be abhorrent and must be stop . some have say to I that the exist legislation cover violent and physical act , and of course it do — violent , abusive and bully coercion and harassment can be catch under current crime — but the Government ' s 2021 consultation say that new criminal law be need to fill the gap between physical abuse and a process that cause long - term harm . the Bill therefore make a clear statement that conversion practice should be illegal and that the most egregious case should be prosecute . it avoid clash with exist law focus on harm — do so would result in survivor be retraumatise through lengthy court battle — and instead look at the intent behind the action . to get the balance right , the Bill clarify that certain action will not constitute an offence . the hon . Gentleman be talk about abusive practice and practice that cause harm . of course , we all condemn anything that be abusive and , as he say , the vast majority of those act be already cover by law , but the Bill do not actually mention abuse , or indeed harm . there be not a threshold of harm beyond which a practice , which could be a speech - base activity , be unlawful . for example , a detransitioner — he mention Keira Bell — try to persuade an individual not to go ahead with surgery or hormone treatment that would have a permanent impact could be catch by the Bill , yet many of we would not say that be harmful or abusive ; in fact , it be the opposite . would that person not be catch by the Bill ? I do not believe that the Bill would catch people who express personal reservation about certain process ; it would catch people who have prepare programme and activity , not ad hoc activity . I will come on to that safeguard in a moment . that be exactly why we need to get the word and safeguard right , and why we need to do so in a Bill Committee . we must not reject the Bill , because the hon . Lady might find that we go out of the frying pan into the fire . the Bill allow Ministers in Northern Ireland and Scotland to enact it within their jurisdiction , but only with the consent of their respective national legislator . it create offence in relation to people be send abroad , and it use exist language for the law to provide fine to be issue . my aim be not to lock people up but to stop this practice . the key to the Bill be contain in the definition of " conversion practice " , which must be " a course of conduct or activity " . a course of conduct in english law be something that happen more than once , and an activity be not ad hoc but a plan intervention . that do not include one - off , impromptu action ; there must be a predetermined purpose . that be a high threshold than just immediate intent . the predetermined outcome must have be indicate before the course of conduct or activity start , not during it . that provision protect people have thoughtful conversation , who could of course question people via that process . the Bill say : " to change someone ' s sexual orientation or to change a person to or from be transgender " include " to suppress a sexual orientation or transgender identity " . I know some have be nervous about that wording , but I must be clear that suppression must be at the level of negate the identity or orientation . that mean that the very being of their orientation must be change in some way . many gay people never have sex . many transgender people do not wear gendere clothe . those action do not constitute suppression ; they do not negate the orientation or identity in full or in part . it can not be claim that this wording be therefore an overreach . the Bill would use only pre - exist term from other law to describe " sexual orientation " , " transgender " and " transgender identity " . I have receive an interesting representation in the past few day that we should use the term " be transgender " , rather than the interchangeable term " transgender " and " transgender identity " , with " transgender " be more clearly define in the law we have at the moment . if that be well wording , it be the sort of thing I would willingly accept in Committee , after we have have the discussion . that be a real reason for we to get into Committee and work out those detail . sexual orientation be , of course , define in the Equality Act 2010 in term of a person have sexual feeling towards " ( a ) person of the same sex , ( b ) person of the opposite sex , or ( c ) person of either sex . " that definition be use in section 66 of the Sentencing Act 2020 , where " transgender " be define in subsection ( 6 ) ( e ) as follow : " reference to be transgender include reference to be transsexual , or undergo , propose to undergo or have undergo a process or part of a process of gender reassignment " . the term " transgender " be also use in subsection 1 ( e ) , which state : " hostility relate to transgender identity " . member might not like these term and they might not think they should be in law already , but they be . it therefore seem strange that we then get catch up in a debate on thing that this House have already decide upon . the hon . Gentleman have not yet refer to clause 7 . I would be most interested to know whether he be go to explain how this review would operate . it apply in different place , with different term , and it propose amendment . at the moment , it look completely unworkable and will put people in a position where they could be criminalise , guilty of an offence , but at the end of the day the amendment could be then make — what on earth do the court make of all that ? I will come on to every clause as we go through this , so the hon . Gentleman do not have to worry about that . this be a contentious area , and we have hear in the debate in the other place about how people be genuinely and understandably worried , so I have seek clarification on several area . I believe that the balance be correct , but I of course acknowledge that there be a lot of fear in this area and that sometimes , no matter what reassurance one can give in law , people remain fearful until they realise that the practice actually protect . I hope that member will look at the wording and application of these clarification carefully , as they cover all the example that I have be send . I still have not find one that be not clear in this Bill . on the expression of religious belief , I might not like the fact that a priest or another religious figure can stand up on their religious day and say there should not be LGBT people or that they should convert . in my view , that be not a pleasant thing to say , but it be also not conversion practice . we have ensure that as long as it be not target to a specific individual and as a course of conduct — a repeat activity towards an individual — it will never be an offence . as Lord Herbert say in the other place : " we should never legislate lightly in the religious sphere , but Parliament have do so before to prevent harm . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 9 February 2024 ; Vol . 835 , c . 1896 . ] we should do so again . this clause allow full compliance with human right law and do not restrict the general expression of religious belief . on freedom of expression , we have a similar clause : the expression of acceptance or disapproval may be distasteful to an individual , but it be not conversion practice . even repeat expression to an individual , unless they form part of a predetermine purpose that be plan as a course of conduct , be not capture in this Bill . we have hear from practitioner who worry that they be currently work in the " wild west " , particularly in respect of counselling and therapy . there be few guideline about how they can conduct their practice in this area and people on all side shout at they , say that one thing or another be conversion therapy . this Bill will , for the first time , give health practitioner the protection they need . health practitioner be regulate or oversee by the Professional Standards Authority , which be follow their professional judgment . the PSA be establish by Parliament and regulate the statutory regulator and the non - statutory register . there be 12 non - statutory accredited register for counsellor or psychotherapist in the PSA , with the two large be those of the UK Council for Psychotherapy and the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy , but the list include small specialist organisation such as the Association of Christians in Counselling and link Professions or the UK Association for Humanistic Psychology Practitioners . health practitioner be free to choose the relevant body to join . each accredited register be entitle to develop its own approach to sexual orientation and transgender identity . there be already a diversity of view within those body , but none have object to the Bill go to Committee . the hon . member be certainly try very hard to provide a carve - out — an exception — to allow health practitioner to explore professionally with their client their sexual and transgender identity . however , the carve - out mean that the health practitioner must comply with regulatory and professional standard . be he aware that most of the body he list , and that be list in the Bill , include the NHS , have sign up to a memorandum of understanding that basically insist that therapist pursue a gender - affirmatory approach ? a therapist that do not pursue a gender - affirmatory approach and deliberately set out to help somebody not , as he term it , become transgender would be in contravention of clause 1 ( 2 ) ( c ) and therefore catch under the Bill . the hon . Member say exactly the right word : " most " , but not all . therapist who take a different approach will join a different organisation and get the same protection , because they will be follow that organisation ' s regulatory approach . in fact , the UK Council for Psychotherapy recently release a statement say that exploratory therapy be an acceptable form of practice within the requirement of not have a " predetermine purpose " . the Bill do not support or prevent different form of care , such as gender affirming or exploratory care . that be for the regulatory body to determine . what the Bill do be stop a " predetermine purpose " of offer change . some people have ask I to remove the " pre - determine " requirement for the health sector . they claim that it be circular and already the basis of the Bill , and that we do not need it . but without it , the chilling effect that many health practitioner feel in this area — hence they be leave it — would continue . the Bill will allow practitioner to explore all form of care , while have a framework to respond to someone who say , " you must say that I be this at the end of my therapy . " practitioner can now say , " I can not do that under law . I have to explore . I have to work with you and support you . " that be what therapist should do , that be what they want to do , but at the moment , that be what they be struggle to do . this be a develop field and we need a framework that allow new evidence to be hear . some have claim that we should wait for the Cass report or that we should rule out some sort of care . that would be dangerous . the Cass report will not be the end of the discussion of child and transgender . one sort of care might be useful for one group of people but not for another . it be up to the regulated body to produce guideline . such evidence should be treat by they , not deliberate here in the House . the hon . Member be give a powerful speech . on the Cass review , do he want to highlight the fact that Dr Hilary Cass have say that absolutely nothing in her work should stop a conversion practice Bill go through this place ? exactly . I very much welcome that statement . in fact , the Bill produce a framework that Dr Cass ' s review can inform as thing change and move forward . People who be not health practitioner but assist a person undergo a regulated course of treatment , such as a receptionist or driver , be protect under the Bill . if someone be question , explore or develop cope skill — a role often take by teacher or youth worker , which be my previous profession — they will receive clarity on the range of support they can offer . one of the most controversial area in the Government ' s Bill be how it deal with parent . it be my view that parent have a darn hard life already raise their child and we should not create new burden for they . the Bill say that if someone be exercise parental responsibility and consider the welfare of their child as paramount , nothing they do will be an offence under the Bill . we refer to the Children Act 1989 and use the language in well - establish body of law . we should not be mess with how child be treat in this way . I appreciate how much the hon . Gentleman be give way ; it allow we to have a proper debate . I recognise how he be try to protect parent . the definition he just read out state that as long as the parent be act in the good interest of the child , they be not guilty of conversion practice . nevertheless , can he not see that if the police or a prosecutor be to determine that the conversation that the parent be have in essence amount to conversion practice in the form of try to change their child ' s gender identity or sexuality , it would be very possible to suggest that they be not act in the good interest of the child and therefore to accuse they of conversion practice ? I recognise that the hon . Gentleman be try to do the right thing here and that he have no intention of intervene in family life . nevertheless , the law that he be propose would very easily lead to exactly the prosecution that he be try to avoid . the hon . Gentleman be right that the wording do not give parent a blank cheque for abuse , because the law already do not allow that . the law already set the bar for court ' determination on the welfare of a child . the court already have a system to determine if there be a dispute between parent . the court , or local authority , already have a requirement to intervene where there be serious risk to a child . that be why I have use that body of law . again , I do not think that it be our place to meddle with that body of well - establish practice law . if he feel that there be word that would make that clear , that be a case for send the Bill to Committee and table amendment , and I will genuinely ensure that they get a hearing . the Bill reflect the limit in exist statute about where parent ' behaviour can go from support their child , through challenging conversation , to abuse . I be slightly concerned that there be a risk that some who oppose the Bill be suggest that , if a parent ' s challenge of their child ' s LGBT inherent nature — who they be — become abuse , that be somehow acceptable : that be LGBT be a perversion and therefore that someone can be abusive to their child if they be LGBT , something they have not choose but be inherent to who they be . do the hon . Gentleman agree ? I quite agree . I have speak to lot of people who have undergo conversion practice , often push by their parent . almost none of they have say to I that they want their parent prosecute ; almost all have say that they want the practice to stop . that be the difference . that be what the Bill will do . I acknowledge that there be many area in which we may need clarity when the Bill be in operation . the Bill would require the Secretary of State to produce full guidance , and it would require devolved body to do so if the Bill be apply in their area . while there be no ability to change the core offence in the Bill , clarificatory amendment be allow under the affirmative procedure , which require a vote in both Houses . it can never look back , but it can change thing go forward when it need to . the Bill would create an offence of send someone abroad , use the same framework as that for female genital mutilation , an establish piece of law that be already on the statute book . other Bills have try to lock people up for these practice . to I , that seem totally foolish . broadly , I do not believe in send people to prison if we can find other way to stop the practice . therefore , I propose a fine not exceed level 5 for conviction of an either - way offence in the magistrate court or the Crown Court , depend on the defendant or the prosecutor . some ask : " why not a civil fine rather than a criminal fine ? " it be quite simple . the balance of probability be the test in civil law , and beyond reasonable doubt the test in criminal law . do people want a low threshold or a high threshold ? I have choose the high threshold to ensure that we get only the egregious case . we have see the scandal of the Post Office , and many people have express a fear of activist group on either side — use money from America or big donor — bring private prosecution and create a chilling effect . at the suggestion of the Gay Men ' s Network , but support by all the people I have speak to , I have prevent that from happen by allow prosecution only with the approval of the Director of Public Prosecutions in England , Wales and Northern Ireland . if the Bill be enact by the Scottish Government , those protection already exist in Scotland . finally , on penalty , we have seek to ensure that those with responsibility as charity trustee who be convict under the Bill will be debar from hold office . be a trustee be a position of trust , and these practice often happen in those setting . the Charity Commission could , on application , remove that debarring if it wish to do so . on the review clause , which the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) mention , almost everyone I speak to be clear that the Bill be a start , but that they want to go far — some in one direction , by give the Bill great scope , and other in the direction of great clarification . I have deliberately write the Bill to be narrow in scope . it will not have the ability to overreach . many people feel that it will not capture all practice , but I understand that we must start somewhere and then move forward . that be why I include in the Bill , use wording from the fix - term Parliaments Act 2011 — a process that we have already use — a four - year review clause , require the Secretary of State to set up a committee that have a majority of member of this House but also other expert , to recommend amendment to the Bill . of course , that committee would not be bind on this House ; we would still have a vote . have meet with numerous people , I believe I have create a balanced and fair Bill . be it perfect ? no . be it a good start to the process ? yes . should we take it to Committee and continue our work ? yes . for too long , this place have find reason to take no action ; we have allow the perfect to be the enemy of the good . the Bill should go to Committee , and I promise to appoint a diverse range of voice to that Committee . we should continue the dialogue and find practical solution via amendment and tweak , but not the grandstanding that we have have up to this point , of which I be as guilty as anyone . we should go to Committee and suggest amendment and great clarification . to frustrate this Bill today when we have pledge for so many year to pass this legislation would be an indictment of this place . to frustrate this Bill today would be to break the pledge of the last five Prime Ministers , and the promise make at the last election and before that . most importantly , to frustrate this Bill today would be to let down the survivor and future victim , and it be to they that I give the very last word . in the last year — not in the last decade , but in the last 12 month — Childline have have over 50 testimony from young people . I will read one , from a girl age 18 : " when I be young , I tell my parent I think I be bi and they send I to a counsellor who try to convince I I be straight , and that my desire to be ' different ' be purely for attention . even though that be year ago , the effect of the counselling be still ongoing . it ' s leave I with a lot of guilt and confusion around who I be and how I ' m suppose to act around other people . " this Bill would stop that . it be for those people that we must act today . this be our first chance to do so ; let we not let they down . I be often ask why I fight for a ban on conversion therapy . People say , " surely there must be some personal connection . surely you must have some personal history , " but I do not . in fact , there be no one in my family who be LGBT ; we may be the only family in the UK without someone who be LGBT . the reason I do it be because fundamentally , as a Conservative , I have a duty to defend individual freedom . I believe that the state should stay out of people ' s life , but it should protect the most vulnerable — defend those who other seek to harm , and recognise that the first and foremost duty of any Government be to protect their people . this be not some woke frontier for politician to weaponise for clickbait , and I be shame by the debate that be increasingly take place on conversion therapy . I remember the first debate I secure in this place on conversion therapy . it be moderate ; we sit and debate the intricacy of legislation that be not yet there . unfortunately , that have change . People in position of trust be abuse those who they tell they be sinful , broken and need correcting , which cause lifelong hate . there be survivor in this place — in Parliament . the reason I fight so hard be that so many LGBT colleague do not feel that they can come here and be label as fight for themselves . they should be free to do that , but sometimes they can not , and — do you know what ? — allyship matter . we have a duty in this place to not impose our own personal view on thing , but recognise that our right — potentially to religious freedom — can be protect while we also protect those who live a life different from our . the hon . Lady have make a really important point about LGB people come to this place and feel safe to argue their position on this important matter . I have experience the most horrendous bullying in this place because I take a contrary view , or a more guard view , than some in the LGB community . in fact , people in the LGB community be often refer to as " bigot " , " transphobe " and other slur just because we have concern about legislation such as this and want to make sure that young LGB people be protect — and trans people . do the hon . Lady agree that that rule must apply to all side of any debate , not just to the side that she favour ? the hon . Gentleman be entirely right , but there be one letter miss in his LGB : the letter t . we do not divide the LGBT community in this place . member can say that they have concern about what we be do , but by remove the t , the hon . Gentleman be suggest that transgender people do not exist . he be suggest that they be less than other LGB people , and I will not stand for that , because it be trans people who stand with gay people at Stonewall ; it be trans people who fight alongside they for LGB right . I will happily discuss the intricacy of legislation with the hon . Gentleman , but when he choose to eradicate , that be wrong . will my hon . friend give way ? no , I will not give way on this point , because I will not hear more erasure of a transgender community . we can discuss the intricacy , but that I will not stand for . I be not go to go into the argument about the Bill , because the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) do an exceptional . job . he go out and meet every single person , organisation and lobby group and listen to all their view , even if he disagree with they — and that include the LGB Alliance , who have also remove the t — and I have support he . he have do a phenomenal job . the hon . Gentleman have set out what the Bill do . it protect religious leader , who can still guide their flock . health practitioner can still support and challenge people , and parent be protect . that be why all major faith group back the Bill , why the royal college back it , and why exploratory therapy be protect . this be a compromise Bill , and I say to member who wish to oppose it , " search within yourself , because you have a duty to protect child and a duty to allow professional to do their job , and you need to recognise that some people ' s objection be not to the nuance in the Bill . " the only people who fear a ban on conversion therapy be quack and charlatan who profit from bigotry and misery . conversion therapy cause lifelong harm . this be a moderate Bill and a compromise Bill , and it do not go as far as the Government ' s proposal . [ interruption . ] the hon . Member may chunter and laugh , but I be appalled — [ interruption . ] I will happily give way to he if he ask , rather than chuntere . I apologise for chuntering . I be simply amuse by the suggestion that this be a moderate Bill . this be not a moderate speech that the hon . Lady be make . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) make a very good speech , recognise that there be legitimate view on the other side of the debate . the hon . Lady talk about erasure , but she dismiss the comment of the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) , suggest that his view be completely invalid . I respect her argument and her wish to pursue this Bill , or this kind of legislation , but can we please have a debate with more civility ? I would suggest that the ultimate failure of civility be to erase a member of the LGBT community — to erase an entire group . I be happy to discuss the nuanced point , but I will not do so if member want to suggest that transgender people do not exist , or that we do not really have a definition in law of what transgender people be . they exist in law and they exist in this place , and they exist in the hon . member ' s constituency as well . the Government should back this compromise Bill , because love be not a pathology , and transgend people be not a pathology : they do not need treatment . I say , very simply , to those people , " you be see in this place and you be hear in this place , and very many of we back you and will protect you . " I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) for the way in which he introduce the Bill . he be not know on the Opposition Benches as the most moderate of character , but what he set out today be a moderate Bill — a Bill that seek to find a consensus and a compromise between those campaign for full - fat equality and those with gender - critical view . he have do so with a focus on not take one side of the debate or the other , but put the victim of this abhorrent and cruel practice first . that be what each of we , on all side , should be think about when consider the Bill . what happen to those people , out of sight and often out of mind , who be prey on by other who seek to attack they for who they love and who they be ? conversion therapy be not always in the spotlight . it be not someone be beat up in the street . it be not someone have paint fling at they . it be not someone be kick out of their family home for who they be . it be a practice that be establish and accept in , frequently , professional forum , and in place we go to where we open ourselves up and where we seek the support of institution and professional . that be why the Bill matter . it seek to expose those place where this abhorrent , cruel , 21st - century torture be perpetrate on LGBT people . I be proud to be Plymouth ' s first out MP , which I think give I a special responsibility to be vocal about the effect of legislation , and of the lack of legislation , on community and people like I . if we in this House do not have an eye on that effect , we turn a blind eye and legitimise the torture and abuse that happen to people . we must not do that . I be pleased when the Government say in their last manifesto that they will ban conversion therapy , and I be pleased that my party and every main party do so , because it seek to create a consensus that hate and torture be not welcome in the UK regardless of our politic . I be proud to be a Labour MP , and I be proud to be part of a campaigning party and a party of equality , but I want every party in this House to be a party of equality when it come to root out abuse , which be what this Bill offer . we have just hear the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) make a proud conservative case for stamp out something , and I be proud to make a labour case for stamp out hate and inequality . I be proud to say that our duty to society mean that we must consider the most vulnerable , because that do not attack all of we but lift people to a level where everyone be protect . that matter and , if a conservative case can sit happily alongside a Labour case , we should pass a consensus Bill . the LGBT community have be wait too long for this legislation , which have be promise too many time , but let we be clear about what would happen if the Bill be not pass today . we be possibly only week away from a general election in which we know there could be more division than we have see in a long time . it worry I deeply that we have allow attack on tran people to be a legitimate part of how we win vote . it be never acceptable to attack a minority , and it be never acceptable to seek to win vote on the back of the most vulnerable , persecute and attack minority . with this Bill , both side of the House have an opportunity to turn our back on that and to say that equality matter from any political perspective , because people matter . my word , people come in all different shape and size , which be a good thing . it be in celebrate our diversity that we gain strength , not by pretend that everyone be the same . that would be a dull , horrible future . it would be a version of Britain that erase people , that erase the bit that make this country great — that we can all be different , that we can all be proud and , importantly , that we should all be protect under law . it be important that the Bill be draw as broadly as possible , cover all aspect of the LGBT + community . I speak in a previous Westminster Hall debate on this subject , as do a number of Members present , and I describe how remove the t , so that the Bill protect only LGB people , be a trap door . as the hon . member for Rutland and Melton say , if we allow that trap door , people who enjoy protection from torture because they be lesbian , gay or bisexual will simply be tell that they be tran , and that loophole will be use to attack people whether or not they have a transgend identity . it be a trap door , which be why the Bill must be as broad as possible . I have speak to equality activist and member of the LGBT community in Plymouth about the Bill , and they have ask I to pose two question to my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown . first , do the Bill include asexual people and , secondly , do it include non - binary people ? these be fair question , and they be important because , if we be consider the full extent of the LGBT + community , we must consider those people who might not necessarily describe themselves as transgender , and might not especially describe themselves as LGB in some way . some clarity in the explanatory note , or on the face of the Bill , would be useful to affirm to those community that they be capture by the measure . I understand from what my hon . friend have say that they will be , but I would be grateful if he mention that when he wind up . this House need to consider how we come together , rather than how we divide . I support my hon . friend ' s plea for the Bill to go to Committee , where those who have a legitimate challenge — from their point of view — can table amendment . what I would like to hear in the debate be this : in which clause be there a problem ? in which clause might alternative wording address that problem ? over the past few month , I have see my crazy , ridiculous hon . friend , who normally run headlong into wall to knock they down , take his time to be balanced , calm and considerate . I do not know whether it be a temporary affliction or part of a new chapter in his behaviour , but I have see he make every effort to speak to people he agree with and disagree with , to take on board their view . not only be that something that we should , for all our sake , encourage in his behaviour , but it make the Bill well , because it make it supportive . the gravity of this issue can not be overstate . recent polling by LGBT anti - abuse charity Galop find that one in five LGBT people and more than a third of tran people in the UK have be subject to attempt conversion . another charity , Mind , which focus on mental health issue , find that those who have undergo such practice be twice as likely to have suicidal thought and 75 time more likely to plan to attempt suicide . there be real - world consequence . that have lead Mind and 20 other mental health charity , NHS body and professional counselling and psychotherapy organisation to define conversion practice as " unethical and harmful " and to call for they to be ban . I agree with they and with the Bill . however , there will be people watch the debate who have perhaps not search out the text of the Bill . they will be look at the tone of the debate to see whether this House reflect their view and , for the LGBT + community , whether it reflect their right to exist . that matter . the word we choose matter . to those LGBT people who be watch this , I echo the word of the hon . member for Rutland and Melton : they be see , they be welcome and they be love . I want everyone to be authentically true to who they be . there should be no impediment in law , no loophole or trapdoor , that allow someone who be true to who they be , authentically themselves , to be subject to abuse or torture in the way that , as we have establish on a cross - party basis , happen in relation to conversion therapy . I completely agree with the hon . member about the tone of this important debate , but , as I be sure he be aware , abuse and torture be absolutely illegal in this country , and we all support that . there be multiple piece of legislation that deal with abuse , torture and harmful practice , and nobody in this place would reject that . the problem for those of we who question the Bill be that it contain no threshold for torture , abuse or even harm , so it will capture practice that be not harmful and for which we should not be legislate . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . give the risk of run into the same wall that my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown run into , I will portray moderation on my side . I think that that be precisely why she should give the Bill a second reading and table any amendment , as she see fit , to define the matter of concern and make her case in Committee . I believe that there be currently loophole in the law that allow that abhorrent abuse to go on . a number of practice be illegal in this country , such as force marriage , which be something that the LGBTQ community experience , include those who may also go through conversion therapy . that be wrong . do my hon . friend agree that the time to tackle that be now ? the LGBTQ community have be wait at least five year since the Government first promise to ban that awful practice . I agree with my hon . friend . People have be wait too long ; let we ensure they do not wait any long . let we also send a message to member of all party , until the general election conclude , that attack trans people and LGBT people because of who they be be unacceptable . that should be call out on a cross - party basis . it have no part in our politic . legitimate debate about improve this Bill should define we at our very good . the debate so far have be a good one , because it have allow people to voice their different view , and we should continue that in Committee , allow people to table amendment where require to improve the Bill and ensure it do exactly what it say on the tin and stop these abhorrent , cruel practice from ever happen again . the obligation in this debate be to set out the current threat that be not already cover by exist legislation or that we would want to legislate against . the Bill also need to do so in a clear , precise way that be straightforward to interpret and enforce , without cause great uncertainty and trigger a chilling effect on free speech and healthy family life . over many year , the issue of sex and identity have develop and evolve substantially . when I be young , I never see these topic on the news . it be rare and unusual for they ever to appear . in term of be aware of lesbian and gay and the challenge they face in life , for any Member of Parliament — for any decent person — there be huge concern and sympathy for those people . there be a debate among that community about bisexual join it . that be not a straightforward process . there be a debate and a dispute over that . one thing that my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) touch upon be acceptance of other people and inclusiveness , and not impose upon people . that be one key feature , I think , in the debate about conversion practice . many people , for example represent by the LGB Alliance , be concerned that they feel impose upon . society be adapt and learn to understand and appreciate the challenge that change in society bring . my hon . friend and the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) highlight a point about LGB and LGBT identity . the hon . Gentleman then add the plus symbol , the a and the I . that highlight the complexity of the issue and the clarity need when some group be be include and other exclude . the language be diverse , depend on who we be speak to and when we be speak . a few year ago , this conversation would have be different from how it be now . we have to reflect on the number of gender that be commonly use or reasonably frequently use , and this be by no mean an exhaustive list : bi - gendere , cross - dresser , drag king , drag queen , femme queen , female - to - male or FTM , gender bender , genderqueer , male - to - female or MTF , non - op , hijra , pangender , transsexual , tran person , woman , man , butch , two - spirit , trans , agender , third sex , gender fluid , non - binary transgender , androgyne , gender gifted , gender blender , femme , person of transgender experience and androgynous . if people go on Wikipedia , there will see far , far more . I have miss out huge number , but it serve the purpose of highlight the complexity and involvement of the issue . when we be discuss this topic , it should be respectful , but also we should try to keep society with we . the hon . gentleman talk about be respectful . do he not believe that people should be able to identify in whatever way they choose ? I do agree with people identify in any way they choose , but society be still get to grip with this issue . one concern be not just individual be able to make choice about their identity for themselves , but how other people relate to they . that be a huge concern in relation to change the law and impose upon society a set of view , when those view and value be evolve over time . I will highlight one aspect . as thing change , that be reflect in society , for example in architecture . parent come to my surgery to raise concern about mix - sex facility at a local swimming pool . they raise those concern because they be interested in protect their daughter . regardless of whether the hon . member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) and other colleague agree or disagree about the issue , it be a fact that parent be come to I to say that they be concerned about the architecture of the new health centre in Horwich . that architecture cement in place a particular form of behaviour — everyone together rather than male and female change room — and that lend itself to a lot of misunderstanding , concern and fear in society . that be express to I by mother of daughter and I , as a Member of Parliament , ought to be respectful and concerned about what my constituent be raise with I . on transition , as I point out before , societal understanding have be gradual . such topic be very rarely in the news and now they frequently be . Most day on the " Today " programme we hear about sex and identity . as it be on our medium so much , we have to reflect on legislation and application , but it be only relatively recently , in 2005 , that the transgender or transsexual side of the issue come into the mainstream and the forefront of people ' s understanding . I buy at the time the album " I be a Bird now " by Antony and the Johnsons , and it be an interesting listen ; it be good music with interesting and challenging lyric . it highlight some of the challenge that people go through , and which many people in society would not know about . many people would not know about the transition process and how challenging it be . before the debate develop in the way it have , most people when hear about trans people would try to be understanding , supportive and sympathetic and would want to encourage those people on the path they have choose to go down , but that be not universal ; many people be hostile and toxic about that . but 2005 be , at least for I , the transition point when trans identity become far more public an issue . we have to understand how difficult it be for society to adjust , especially give certain aspect of trans ; for example , significant surgery be do to people as part of that process , and quite significant pharmaceutical be use in the process . these be not easy thing to adjust to for mum , dad , son , daughter , brother , sister , the wide family and the wide community , such as , perhaps , church , mosque or other organisation , when see and hear that someone be concerned and think about transition . how protect be those people from the threat of conversion practice or illegalisation of what they would consider a normal if challenging conversation ? if someone want to go down a route involve significant surgery and life - change drug , that might be irreversible , especially for a child reach puberty ; drug that stop the process of puberty can have substantial impact and there should be some understanding of the lifelong impact of take those drug , especially if someone want to detransition . it be very challenging for those people to make that decision in the first place . it be challenge for their family watch they try to understand the issue , which be far well understand these day than they be previously , to say , " be that the right choice ? be that the route you want to go down ? " we have to be 100 % certain that normal family conversation will not be take through the court . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech that make clear how nuanced the debate be and how complicated an area it be in which to legislate . do he share my concern that the Bill could criminalise somebody who perhaps be not a parent , but maybe an old friend and mentor to a young person , who deliberately set out to try to dissuade they over a period of time from go down a transition route , take cross - sex hormone and pursue surgery ? do he share my concern that that person could be catch under the Bill in a practice that perhaps he and I would think be not abusive at all , but seek to rescue that child from permanent harm ? I agree . the jeopardy for that individual be substantial . that issue have not be cover , and they be not protect under the legislation as it stand . there be a significant aspect to this matter about free will and decision making . if a young person be look to go down a certain route — again , the transformation to someone ' s life if they transition be profound and , in many way , irreversible — perhaps the individual want to be certain that the young person be make the right decision . how can someone be certain they be make the right decision ? one way be by ask the young person challenge question , such as , " be you do the right thing for the right reason ? can you live with the consequence of it ? have you really though it through ? " I think this Chamber represent that idea of debate and challenge , and of question , " be you really intent on do this ? do you really want to go down this track ? before you take any drug , go to a clinic to get that support or have any surgery , have you actively consider all the issue and implication of what you be do ? " my hon . friend be absolutely right that we have to give space for that free discussion . current NHS datum suggest that people refer to gender identity clinic will take about 10 year to be see . be 10 year enough time for someone to be sure they have make the right decision ? one concern be the requirement almost for affirmation . in the context of the structure in society and the expectation on people if the legislation pass , and the framing in which parent , family and other be allow to discuss the matter with their own child , the route that people go down start a long time before they get to the stage that my hon . friend mention . we need to understand this and have an open discussion right at the beginning , rather than year down the line . my hon . friend raise the good point about the explosion in demand for support in this area over recent year , which be overwhelm the service available through the NHS . that itself should cause we great concern about what be go on in our society . there be a long waiting list for publicly available help but not for private support , so be I not right that somebody could seek private therapy quickly ? my hon . friend be entirely right . just because the state service be often slow than private service , we should not be satisfied that the 10 - year delay be sufficient time for people to reconsider . there be a question of equality on this matter and , again , we have to understand society as it have change . a key thing in society , which be certainly not a concern when I be grow up , be the internet , email and social medium . social media be powerful , and child and young people spend a great deal of time on social medium . in other debate in this Chamber , people would be raise concern about bulimia , suicide and other thing that child be influence by on social medium . those be the challenging issue raise on social medium . parent have to understand that the influence on their child can often be supportive and encouraging , but not all the influence on social medium be . the Bill almost introduce an inequality : certain people can encourage and support child , young adult and other to go down a certain track , whether they meet in person or online , but the people with whom they have personal contact and will spend the rest of their life — the family unit , their friend and the wide community — almost have their ability to communicate with their love one curtail . do my hon . friend also accept that it would be impossible for a criminal trial determine whether an offence have be commit to go through all these variation to work out the nature of the evidence that should be receive ? it be incredibly invasive ; it be base on privacy and people be able to talk to other in a mentor context or a manner that would enable the person to understand well what be go on . for a trial to determine whether an offence have be commit would be mind - bogglingly difficult and very invasive — in practice , it would be impossible . I agree . if the court , prosecutor and other can go into the family home to find evidence for a successful prosecution , that would cause substantial disruption to family life . remember that this have to be a successful prosecution for something that be not cover by exist legislation . there be already a huge number of protection in law for people right across society . as I say , this Bill ought to be able to point out compellingly and clearly area of life that we want to be protect but be not already cover by exist legislation . the punishment allow under the Bill be a level 5 fine . I be not terribly familiar with the fine category , but the House of Commons Library have provide a bit of information . it be an unlimited fine , which would be a huge cost to anyone suffer it . it be important that family be aware of the category they have be put into . level 5 crime include harassment , stalking , imprisonment , control or coercive behaviour , and exposure — commonly know as flash . this Bill seek to put family who believe they be have a normal conversation about their child grow up and explore idea about themselves and their identity , if they be not clear about what their identity be , into that category . family have what they consider to be a normal , reasonable and balanced conversation with their child be be put in the same category as flasher . that be what the level 5 fine do , and that place a serious burden on family . I want to reflect on the fact that Justin Webb fall foul of current legislation for remark that come out early today , or perhaps yesterday , so it would be challenge for a family member , a friend , a religious leader or anyone else in wide society . if someone who deal with these issue day in , day out , as a presenter on one of the most prestigious news programme — BBC Radio 4 ' s " today " programme — can fall foul of current legislation , we should think about what we be do when we seek to tighten up legislation . I appreciate the argument that the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown make — he give a powerful , dignified speech — but if Justin Webb can fall foul of the current legislation , how vulnerable will parent and other be who do not follow the nuance and detail of these issue day in , day out ? there will be a lot of concern . it will be damaging in many way for family to feel that they will be scrutinise , under the microscope and vulnerable when do what they can to care for their child . on that note , I oppose the Bill , but I look forward to the rest of this positive debate . undoubtedly , this Bill be be present with many good intention , by a Member who feel passionately about the right of LGBT people , and all people , to live as they choose in peace and without fear or prejudice . the vast majority of member of this House and the other place share those aim and intention . Most will have attend Pride and take part in LGBT history Month event and debate . Most see the equality legislation pass here , such as the marriage ( same Sex Couples ) Act 2013 , as a positive step towards a more equal and inclusive society . the idea of anyone who be gay or bisexual , of any age , and who be grow into who they be and question their sexuality , be coerce into think that they need to change be deeply disturbing and sinister . but that be already against the law . it be also , thankfully , incredibly rare , to the point of be all but wipe out . it be certainly completely socially unacceptable . I believe that this propose legislation be not necessary to fix a problem ; rather , it create several serious new one . anyone who follow the recent debate in the other place will have hear strong evidence from peer across the Benches that the Bill be a solution in search of a problem . first , in order to legislate we would need clear legal definition of term that be contentious and vague . for example , how do one define the concept of convert someone to change their " true identity " ? a qualified therapist explore a client ' s feeling of gender dysphoria will cause they to question those feeling in order to understand they — that be therapy . in everyday conversation among friend or family , who step in , and at what point , to decide that those conversation amount to attempt conversion ? feminist group , Labour Women ' s Declaration , the Gay Men ' s Network and the LGB Alliance be fearful that legislation like this be dangerous , and it send the message to those who need to confide in professional or even those close to they that it be not safe to do so , and that they will be force to be gay when they might want just to be gender questioning , or vice versa . the message be that the situation be so bad that we need a new criminal law to deal with it . serious legislator should never create flawed and unnecessary legislation merely to send a message ; that be law create by social medium , rather than law that we expect of a Government — or a Government in wait — to be uphold by our court . this Bill be unprosecutable and , without evidence of need , it bring criminal law into an area that simply need to be regulate by policy and guidance . the other aspect , as I mention early , be the problem that , currently , nothing can be properly describe . give broadcaster be label brutal man who murder as woman , and be reprimand if they correctly name a person by their biological sex , who be appoint the arbiter of what constitute conversion ? feminist believe that lesbian should be free to date only woman , as they choose . however , in today ' s toxic climate , they be pressurise into date so - call lesbian with a penis — in other word , man . in his opening speech , the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) describe his Bill as stop people from be at risk of lose their identity . however well - intentione and worthy that goal might be , how be that to be define and by who ? law that can not provide clear definition be just useless piece of paper . attempt to convert or coerce anyone away from be who they choose to be , or to make they straight if they be gay , be cruel and , thankfully , against the law . this Bill do nothing to change that . it merely suggest that anyone try to stop their daughter cut off her healthy breast as a teenager — before long - term , serious thought and a careful pause — be break the law . the Bill prevent a parent from suggest that their 15 - year - old son should start on a course of puberty blocker , which will render he infertile , as an adult instead , when he will be entirely without doubt and less confused . what understanding be there at the moment about the reversibility of the drug that be sometimes give to child , which could be life - change ? as I understand it — not be a medical expert — we do not know yet , because those drug have not be in full use for long . be all the Members support this Bill really willing to decide what constitute conversion therapy and what they deem to be acceptable talking support ? be they do so because they believe this be serious legislation , or be this politic for social medium like ? in say that , I know well what await I on social medium . we have a clear divide in the Chamber today , between the beneficiary of stonewall badge and donation , and the group of so - call gender critical feminist that I represent . but tribe on social medium be not legislator . we be write law here , and get it right be essential and serious . the dumbe down of such important debate for like be not only vacuous but set a dangerous precedent , and we need to be well than this when make the law of this country . I gently suggest to the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) that if she genuinely think that those on her side of the debate be the only one who get abuse on social medium , she should look at the treatment of LGBT + politician in this country when we dare to speak out about these issue . she be certainly not alone . I do not agree for one minute that the abuse that she or anyone who hold her view get be acceptable . I have often speak in this place about the toxicity surround these discussion and debate , which I believe have only grow with the rise of social medium . I absolutely agree with she on that point , but we have a duty not to feed into the toxicity . we be not support the Bill because we think that this be a social medium contest — we know full well that we would not win — but the evidence be clear . I want to pick up on the point , make in the previous speech , that there be no evidence that conversion therapy be happen , because we have ample evidence from the government - commission datum that it be happen . in 2018 , 108 , 000 people respond to a survey , and 7 % of they have undergo or be offer conversion therapy . some 13 % of trans respondent have undergo or be offer conversion therapy . fifty - one per cent say that it be conduct by faith group , and 19 % say that it be carry out by healthcare or medical professional . in the survey to which my hon . friend refer , what definition of " conversion therapy " be put to respondent ? as my hon . friend well know , there be no definition offer at the time , but that be exactly what this Bill attempt to do : to bring forward a definition . I want to pick up on a point that have be make a number of time . a number of colleague have suggest that there be an epidemic of people be force to be gay or be force to be tran . this be a two - way Bill — it do it in both direction . do the datum that the hon . Gentleman refer to come from the self - referral survey administer at Pride marche ? that be not really research but a survey . do he think that a survey conduct in that way be sufficient to inform legislation ? the survey be only the start . it have be back up by research commission by the Government two year ago . it have also be back up by a number of independent organisation , include the NSPCC , Mind and Galop , which have have call about it . we have the datum to show it be happen . the idea that people would phone a support service such as the NSPCC and pretend that they be be offer conversion therapy be , I be afraid , for the bird . I agree with the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) about how we be perceive in this place . I think back to when this House debate same - sex marriage in 2012 . I listen to the debate , obviously not as a Member of Parliament , and I remember how powerless I feel then as a young gay man have my future and my right discuss by a group of people . I have nothing to do but sit and watch and listen to some awful thing . as the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) say , that be necessary in a free and democratic society . the Bill do not seek to curtail free expression via legitimate conversation , but we have evidence that harm be be do to people and we do not have the law in place to prevent it . I thank my hon . friend for be so generous in take another intervention . he talk about evidence and refer to the survey , which he admit contain no definition of conversion therapy . we have hear how many different definition of conversion therapy there could be , and how many different definition we all hold , from the most extreme , awful abuse , which be already illegal , to talk therapy and persuasion . do the definition of conversion therapy not matter intensely to that survey ? how can it be evidence if there be no definition ? we have to get the Bill to Committee so that we can thrash that out . my hon . friend be absolutely right , but that be the point of pass legislation : we make definition and we make law . the whole point of give the Bill its second reading today be to create a definition and pass it into law . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way ; I hope he agree that this be a very helpful conversation . we have be debate this issue for year , as everybody keep say . the reason there be no definition be because it be impossible to arrive at one . the Scottish Parliament can not arrive at one and we have fail to do so . it be not possible to find a definition that be between what be illegal already and what we all think should not be illegal . it do not exist . the idea that the Bill should go to Committee for we to continue this conversation be absurd . it can not be do . I be sorry , but my hon . friend seem to have forget the point : this be the first time we be debate a Bill . we have fail because we have take five year to arrive at a position where we can actually debate legislation . that be the failure . we pass Brexit fast than we have discuss this ! I thank the hon . Gentleman for give way ; he be be very generous . the fundamental problem be that we have not be able to define the problem . there be anecdotal datum from a survey that suggest that some people have report that they have be subject to what they define as conversion therapy , but we do not know what it be . it be not define . what exactly be we legislate about ? I would like to ask the hon . gentleman another question . I listen very carefully to his view on other people talk about his sexuality . do he think it be acceptable for a gay man to be tell across this Chamber what he should do , how he should define himself and who he should associate himself with ? do he feel that that be homophobic ? I do not think anybody should be tell what they should do . that be the entire reason I be back the Bill . I totally accept that there will be people who will never , ever believe that LGBT + identity be real or valid . I do not agree with that , and I and other people can find that hurtful , but that be what we have to accept in a free and democratic society . I have be part of these conversation now for many year and I have see the incredible work that have go in to work across the divide to try to bring people together . I see myself , when I sit on the Women and Equalities Committee and we conduct an inquiry into this issue , how much agreement there be between different side about what need to be do , especially on improve the provision of healthcare and mental healthcare . they might have different idea on outcome . for example , some people might think we need to improve healthcare for young people so they do not go down a route of be tran , while other people might think we need to do that because waiting list be too long and we want to get people on a course of treatment fast . both those view be , of course , absolutely valid . as parliamentarian and as individual , we have to accept view that we do not agree with . I totally accept , as I have say , that there will be people who never think that my right to exist as a gay man be valid or that trans identity be valid . that might be upsetting and difficult for people to accept , but that be what happen in a free and democratic society , and the Bill do not encroach on that . I want to come back to the legal test of " predetermine outcome " , as that be where we must focus . that legal test provide the safeguard necessary to address both those set of concern , so that we can get to a place where if someone embark on a course of action that have a predetermined outcome to change someone ' s identity , we have a legal mechanism to deal with that , but we also provide the freedom for people to express view , to engage in legitimate conversation and , yes , to say thing that other people might find distasteful and hurtful . we just have to accept that that be the case , but this be what good law be all about . I hope that colleague allow the Bill through to Committee . there have be many discussion of what constitute conversion therapy and how we define these concept . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown be right to use exist legal concept , but we must be allow to get the Bill through to Committee so that we can have this discussion in great detail , because so far all we have hear be anecdote ; we have have debate , but we have never have discussion on an actual legislative proposal . that be the opportunity we have today and it would not be right to let the Bill fall at this hurdle . we need to get it through to Committee so that we can thrash this matter out in more detail . I would like to take this opportunity to thank my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) for the extent of his engagement with those with vary perspective on the Bill . we have cross sword on occasion , but it be important that the conversation and debate in this Chamber be lead with the honesty and integrity that it deserve . no one want to see pressure or coercion use on people , whether they be gay , lesbian , bisexual , transgender or heterosexual — I know that all member of this House can agree on that . work on the law as we do , however , we also know that good intention alone be not sufficient to avoid unintended consequence , which can arise from any piece of legislation — we always see that in this place . whatever the issue at hand , we have a responsibility here ; as elect member of Parliament , it be our job — it be precisely why we be vote into this place — to interrogate proposal , scrutinise legislation and ask the difficult question , the " what if " , to ensure that any legislation that pass work in practice for the benefit of the people in this country , rather than against they . before I become an MP , I work in education for 20 year , as a teacher . the majority of my friend be still in teaching and they have many concern ; they feel at first hand the chilling effect on they of the debate we be have in this House , as well as of what have happen in Scotland and what be happen in Wales . that be why I feel a great and deep responsibility to stand up here today , to have this debate and to raise the issue that I have with the Bill as it stand . however , I thank my hon . friend for open the conversation , because engaging be the way forward . young people and child be at the heart of everything I do , and I base my approach to this discussion on wellbee and safeguard . the matter of therapy and treatment for child and young people experience gender distress be a highly complex area , which be undergo a review in the UK . far from refer to sexual preference or a way of life , gender reassignment concern serious , potentially life - alter medical and surgical intervention that be often irreversible . in recent year , there have be a concern increase in the number of child , particularly girl , become convince that they be bear into the wrong body . as someone who be a tomboy as a young girl , I know that , have I have some of these conversation , or have these social media influence on I , this would be something that I might have wish for . Dr Hilary Cass ' s interim report expose the extent of the failing of the gender identity development service at the Tavistock clinic , criticise the " predominantly … affirmative , non - exploratory approach " and highlight a disturbing lack of support for young people with gender dysphoria . the report , and the subsequent decision to close the GIDS at the Tavistock clinic , be evidence that treatment should be provide as part of holistic mental health provision . accompany by the consequent NHS interim service specification , it recommend a " watchful waiting " approach , advise that clinician remain open to question and explore a gender - distressed child ' s feeling and the range of available treatment option that may well address a patient ' s need before affirm their self - diagnosis . that be to ensure that if a young person do pursue medical transition , they do so with informed consent and a realistic understanding of likely outcome . if it follow the evidence , the future direction of treatment for child experience gender dysphoria should be psychotherapeutic and exploratory , but I have concern that the Bill as draft risk far impact standard of care by threaten medical professional and clinician who use an exploratory approach . my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown have make effort to reflect those concern in the Bill , yet despite the exception in clause 1 ( 2 ) ( c ) for health practitioner , its focus on " predetermine purpose and intent " still risk criminalise health professional who engage in exploratory conversation with their patient . legitimate clinical practice will sometimes have a predetermined outcome where a confident and clear diagnosis be make . should a clinician have publish research indicate a preference for psychotherapeutic approach that could alleviate a child ' s distressed alienation from their body so that they come to accept themselves as enough as they be , such research could be cite as evidence of predetermine intent of an outcome . the clinician would then be at risk of prosecution if he or she do anything other than affirm a child ' s diagnosis . what be more , the Bill do not require proof that any harm be intend or cause by the clinician ' s conduct . it be highly irregular to criminalise motivation alone in the absence of demonstrably harmful behaviour . professional must be able to question and explore a gender - distressed child ' s self - diagnosis without fear of prosecution , or even accusation of such behaviour . in recent year , countless clinician have speak of the flight of professional work with young people experience gender incongruence . the interim Cass report highlight that professional already feel under pressure to take an unquestione affirmative approach that be diametrically oppose to standard practice in all other clinical encounter . fear of prosecution would exert further pressure on professional work in an already sensitive and culturally fraught area , and would risk accelerate their departure from the field . my concern be that the Bill could leave unquestione affirmative treatment as the only option . the hon . Lady be give a superb speech . I completely agree that clinician be already under pressure to use an affirmative approach . be one of the problem not that many of the professional body , include the NHS , have sign up to that approach , and therefore , even with the safeguard provide in the Bill , those therapist would be commit an offence if they take a predetermined course — let we say , to prevent a patient from go down a transgender route ? I thank the hon . member for her question . that be what we need to be able to discuss and look at in further detail , and to thrash out in Committee . we need to ensure that clinician , particularly those in the NHS — we need they to stay in their field — do not face a chilling effect . the risk of that chilling effect should not be understate : it could make the holistic therapy that be recognise as critical by the Cass review hard to access . our priority absolutely have to be the legitimate and workable protection of the provision of good , evidence care for child and young people . I believe that the Bill should go to Committee . we need sunlight on it to make sure that , if it pass , it have be subject to detailed consideration of its wording and an understanding of what those word mean for people on the ground , work in our NHS , teach the child in our school and work in safeguarding , and for parent , who be a priority . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) . reflect on her word and in particular how she sum up her point , our Parliament , our democracy , our way of make law , work well when friend disagree well . move the Bill into Committee be absolutely the right thing to do . it be a step in the right direction in what be acknowledge right across the House as a complicated issue . I believe that we be do it some justice today . I congratulate the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) on promote this much need Bill . member throughout the House appreciate all the work that he have put in . this issue be very complicated . he have go to great length to build as many bridge as possible and to get the ball roll on this serious matter . the Bill set out a clear objective : to tackle and prohibit practice that seek to change someone ' s sexual orientation or their gender identity . take this step will go a long way towards protect tran people and indeed LGBT people . from correspondence I have receive and through the surgery I have have with member of the trans and LGBT community , I know just how important and impactful the issue be for my constituent . throughout my time as an MP , I have be consistent in my opposition towards all form of conversion practice and in my support for a trans - inclusive ban on conversion therapy , so I be pleased to speak in support of the Bill . to be clear , I welcome the work and the progress that this Conservative Government have make in advance the right of the LGBT community . my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) be not in her place , but she clearly make the conservative case for protect the individual , for championing people ' s individuality . that be why I speak today as well . ensure that those in the LGBT community be able to live freely and happily be something to which I know even my ministerial colleague be utterly commit . on some specific , I welcome the Bill ' s clear framework in define what conversion practice be and the nature of the new offence . I accept there be more to do , but a framework be where we start . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown be right to focus on the highly organised , plan activity and operation where a huge amount of harm take place . by have that type of focus , I think we can well measure the success of the measure in the Bill , should it become law . have comb through the Bill , it be clear that great care have go into make sure that a range of group , include different faith , have be properly hear . that be vital in consider the complexity surround the issue and the need to make the new offence completely watertight . member will know how incredibly difficult it be to strike the right balance on an issue such as this , and to maintain religious freedom while crack down on harmful conversion practice . I believe that the Bill successfully tread that path . by take a tough stance on the very bad conversion practice , we can help to ensure that LGBT people be able to live their life free from the suppression of their gender and sexual orientation . no one in this country should be subject to the erosion and undue manipulation of their own identity . I hope that member in all part of this House support the hon . Gentleman ' s Bill , and that we do not delay any far in get it through to the next stage for further deliberation on the fine detail . let I begin by tell a little story that may surprise some member who have make assumption and judgment about my position on policy of this type . when my party leader , Alex Salmond , introduce equal marriage to Scotland , it be do in a collaborative and supportive way , involve proper engagement with all member of the community . all the church be involve , through an assembly process . it be a smooth and positive campaign that deliver real , meaningful change . I have not avail myself of it , because I be happy to stick with the old - style civil partnership — my partner and I be very comfortable with that — but for those who want a marriage ceremony , it be brilliant . after the introduction of equal marriage at the beginning of 2015 , the Equality Network , which have lead the campaign for it , organise a consultation on what the priority should be for equality campaign in Scotland . so I trundle off to Edinburgh on a cold dark March evening to sit in a room with a large group of people — transexual people , transgender people and gay people . I be the only politician who have turn up on that cold evening , and I be full - throate in my support for advance disability and inclusion right and the right of transgender people . what I have never sign up for , however , be the insinuation of queer theory into the right movement and the equality movement , and the pernicious effect that it would have . I have not realise how dangerous and disruptive that movement be until I speak up , very politely , and say a simple thing : " woman be not be listen to in the trans debate . " the response that stem from that simple statement of absolute fact have be horrific . People describe I as gender critical , but I be not transphobic — absolutely not . I have lead my local Pride march for two year , I have introduce safe space for tran people , and I have relationship and friendship with people who be transgender and transexual . however , when I look at a policy through the lens of someone who have be involve in safeguarding and child protection throughout his professional life and I see a risk in that policy , it be my duty to point that out to legislator and to say , " this be dangerous . " the reason I have bring that up and the reason it be relevant to the debate — I be come to that ; I can see that the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) be get anxious — be that this policy do not sit in isolation from queer theory . it be part of the queer theory movement , and despite all the reassurance and despite the hon . Gentleman ' s good effort — and I believe that his speech and his engagement have be entirely sincere — he can not divorce what he be attempt to do with this legislation from the activist who will have a very different reading of the word that he have speak today , and the reassurance that he have give we . that be my great fear and concern . I have rise to oppose the Bill not despite but because of the fact that I be a gay male who can see the danger that it present to gender non - conform young people . I come out in the 1980 , when be gay be not fashionable and people could still be sack for it , with no recourse or redress in employment law . in those day , my great ally be woman : woman in the Workplace , the feminist who volunteer alongside I at Scottish AIDS Monitor , the woman who work alongside I in school deliver drug and sexual health education to young people in response to the particular AIDS problem that we have in Edinburgh , and the woman who walk alongside I on Pride marche . I remember that , and I value it . it be so sad that the cause of improve the life of transgender and transsexual people in the UK have be blight by a campaign that can be describe as , at good , divisive and aggressive . my family and I have be subject to the full force of that campaign , which be the problem with this Bill . I believe the intention of the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown be genuine , but it be against a backdrop of queer theory activist and heterosexual people tell I how I should define myself and what I should accept as a gay man . that be unacceptable . it be homophobia , and I do not care what anyone say . balance right and protection require the consideration of every affected community , and every affect category within each community . despite what be often say , neither queer theory nor gender ideology be about inclusion or diversity . it be an anarchic , authoritarian movement , the purpose of which be to disrupt and silence . speak up have not be easy , and the impact on my family have be enormous . as a voter , I want to vote for a politician who I believe be tell I the truth . I do not want to vote for a politician who lie to I , who say that black be white or that Y be x . that will never be acceptable , which be why I feel a responsibility to live up to that standard . I have make this point before , but conversion therapy ban be part of a slate of policy which , in my view , be intend to insinuate queer theory into every facet of our culture and to control and limit freedom of thought , freedom of speech and freedom of expression . the clear example be that I be somehow not same - sex attract but same - gender attract , and that I should therefore accept tran - identify female as an acceptable partner . thankfully , that be never go to happen because my partner and I have be together for 30 year and there be no way that will change — I do not have the energy to think about it . I try to listen carefully to these debate , and each time I learn much that be new . the hon . Gentleman bring a perspective to this debate that be completely outside my own experience , for which I thank he . he make an important point about inclusivity , and I want to understand the implication . be he say that this Bill be effectively promote an exclusivity , and that it be not inclusive ? by describe the slate of queer theory policy , be he say that this Bill would be unintentionally harmful well beyond its actual scope ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point , and I will address some of those complex issue . if we look at the Bill through a utilitarian lens , there be a desire to protect the few , which be a laudable and noble aim , but it would limit the freedom of so many and would potentially inflict serious criminal harm upon they because of a lack of foresight of the consequence of some of the proposal . as a counterpoint , and this speak to event that have happen today , can member imagine a circumstance in which it would be remotely acceptable for I to lecture my partner about how he should feel when somebody express a racist view towards he , how he should manage it and how he should respond to it ? I would never presume to do that as that be absolutely not my place . by the same token , it be not anyone ' s place to lecture woman or LGB people , or force - team they with other and say , " you must campaign with they . you must accept their demand . " that be what queer theory be do to our society the hon . Gentleman be make a really important speech . be it not extraordinary how that demand that be make of he , and that be make all the time , be do under the guise of freedom ? it be say that it be an assertion of liberty , and a protection of individual right and free speech . be it not a bizarre inversion of truth when those sort of argument be make ? that be a really important point . that campaign be suppose to be about equality and inclusivity , but one of its main activity be to find people to exclude , dox , deplatform , cast aside and force out of their job . how be that inclusion ? how do that win anyone over to the noble aim of prevent harm ? harm can be prevent through legislation that be already in place , whether that be the Equality Act 2010 or statute that deal with torture and abuse . the legislation be already there , so what exactly be we try to fix ? I can not understand what that be . there be a shiny Bill here that say that conversion therapy be bad — of course it be bad ; nobody disagree with that . the Bill will not solve that . in fact , it will probably make it a whole lot bad . the hon . Gentleman be make a brilliant speech and lay out not just what the Bill could do , but the background and culture against which we be speak . he be right that the Bill would interfere with people ' s freedom and freedom of expression . do he also agree that it would interfere with fundamental human right under the European Convention on Human Rights ? the Bill , even with the suggest amendment , would interfere with some of the basic right to freedom of speech , religion and conscience ? I will come to that specific point and I will challenge the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown about some of his assurance that the Bill be compatible with human right legislation because I have take the view of a couple of King ' s counsel , one of whom be a double KC , who disagree with the hon . Gentleman ' s assessment . my experience be imbue with the naked bullying and harassment that I experience in my political group in this place . that be not because I be transphobic or anything like that — that be a ridiculous accusation — but because I will not submit to queer theory . I will not submit to gender ideology or to anyone tell I that I be same - gender attract because that be a nonsense . that be not the truth . it be not hyperbole to say that this type of legislation be the thin end of the wedge and it have the potential to be the most dangerous , regressive , illiberal and authoritarian policy proposal that I have ever witness in my lifetime . [ interruption . ] if the shadow Minister , hon . member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , want to make an intervention , I be happy for she do so , but if she want to mutter under her breath that be entirely up to she , but it be not a particularly great look . this legislation be not about fix a problem . it have the potential to actively and seriously visit harm on those it purport to protect . if it be genuine in its aim to protect LGB and t people , then we would be debate the policy proposal put forward by Sex Matters for legislation to ban modern conversion therapy , where queer theory adherent use affirmation as a vehicle for the medical and surgical conversion of many gender non - conform young people and other vulnerable young people , wreck their future . I do not believe and I have not see evidence that modern conversion therapy be a widespread practice . however , the hon . Member must recognise that the Bill do not say that one thing be ban for the other ; it say that both , if they be happen , be abhorrent and should stop . surely he should support the Bill so that it can go to Committee and provide the safeguard he want , because it will ban the thing that he say be an abhorrent practice ? the hon . Gentleman make that point to I some day ago in the medium , and I agree with he . I say , " I believe that you be earnestly try to fix the problem and you be try to reach across both side " — I genuinely do believe that . but you can not divorce yourself from the backdrop of queer theory activist who be cause mayhem , and will interpret , despite your reassurance and clarification — order . the hon . Gentleman know that he must not address another Member directly . please do so through the Chair . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . the reassurance give to the Chamber will not be carry forward with activist — we know that that be not the behaviour of activist — so there be a real concern around the backdrop to the legislation . we have hear a little about a survey as evidence to support the legislation . that be a self - administer survey , so nobody could really verify the datum , and anyone could have enter those figure . the definition of the report practice be absolutely spurious — nobody know what it mean . it could be a bit of a giggle , let we be honest ; people could fill the form in for any reason . what little evidence there be of those practice have be describe in a qualitative literature review conduct by Coventry University and submit to the UK Government . it have be criticise by important right organisation Sex Matters and the Gay Men ' s Network for its narrow historical scope and its lack of relevance to the constituent country of the UK , give that 85 % of the datum review in that study relate to practice outwith the UK . furthermore , it be understand in academia that a qualitative literature review be of limited use ; all it really do be inform the backdrop to a piece of primary research . it be not generalisable or transferable to general population ; its purpose be to analyse a situation and come up with an idea for research . that evidence be insufficient to qualify for legislative decision making . couple with the survey , that data be not particularly reliable ; it ignore the very real conversion therapy of queer theory affirmation . I do not think that the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown be seek to mislead anyone , but I must point out the backdrop of queer theory in this context . when it come to fundamental freedom and the impingement of this legislation on human right in the United Kingdom , it be not just I and other hon . member who have concern , as I say early . Jason Coppell KC say in his write opinion for the Christian Institute : " I consider that the Bill … if pass , would constitute a serious intrusion into the legitimate activity and practice of christian church and religious community , which would be contrary to their right protect by the ECHR , and so to the Human Rights Act 1998 . they would also interfere with the legitimate expression of gender critical view , again in a manner which would be likely to breach echr right . " the Bill be " broad in scope . " it " would apply both to practice which seek to ' change ' sexual orientation or transgender identity and practice which seek to ' suppress ' sexual orientation or transgender identity I . e . , to change conduct . " it " would apply to act which cause no injury or distress ; and , indeed , to act to which the person in question consent . " it " would apply across a wide range of setting , include social and religious setting ( although , the Bill … would exempt at least some conduct of parent vis - à - vis their child ) . whilst some attempt have be make to craft exemption or exception so as to ensure that the practice of religion be not prohibit , the central prohibition in the Bill … remain a wide one , apply to church and other religious organisation , and to those express certain view , include gender critical view , outside those setting . the Bill … would , if enact , interfere with a number of right protect by the ECHR . " it " would ( by way of example ) restrict the ability of religious organisation to express their belief ( both within their own community and to the wide world ) and the ability of gender - critical person to express their belief to person who profess a gender identity which be inconsistent with those belief . such restriction be likely to interfere with ( at least ) the right to respect for private and family life ( article 8 echr ) ; the right to freedom of thought , conscience and religion … the right to freedom of expression … and the right to freedom of assembly and association ( article 11 echr ) … it be very difficult to see how the wide - range interference with fundamental right contemplate by the Bill … could be justify . put shortly , the Bill … would criminalise expression of personal conviction even if they be make without expression of hatred or intolerance , or improper purpose or coercion , or abuse of power . restriction of that nature run contrary to the consistent case law of the European Court of Human Rights " . the hon . Member be make such a long speech that we might as well have a bit of a dialogue about some of these thing . such ban have be introduce with similar assurance and clarification in other european country that be under the convention . why be it that that legislation have not end up in the european court , but he think that this Bill , which be even more cautious , suddenly will ? it do not make sense to I . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , but he need to field that question to the King ' s counsel . that be not a question I can respond to on his behalf . ah . well , that be a matter of fact . if member want to engage with the KC , please go right ahead . vicariously , this be about criminal law , not matter relate to the European Union ' s general administrative arrangement . I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point , but the opinion of the King ' s counsel be that enact the legislation would have the effect of infringe those european convention on human right freedom that we all have every right to expect within extant legislation . for I , the answer to the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown be that there be something about the culture of the british court that mean they use the ECHR to pursue their particular political purpose , as we see constantly . there be something about the culture of the european court that mean they do not . we be familiar with this phenomenon whereby european country have arrangement that do not entangle the european convention on human right or the European Court . here in the UK , our lawyer delight in use the European Court to pursue their politic , and that be exactly what would happen in this circumstance . I thank the hon . gentleman for that clarification , which be helpful . the point I will make next be that in Scotland there be similar legislation . in a 46 - page legal opinion , Aidan o ' Neill KC , who be a double silk , talk about these type of proposal , which would see faith leader and other imprison for up to seven year and hit by unlimited fine if convict of involvement in so - call conversion practice . he state : " this be perhaps well describe as ' jellyfish legislation ' . the concept it use be impossible to grasp ; its limit be wholly undefined ; it contain a sting in the tail in the form of criminal sanction of up to 7 year and unlimited fine ; and thus it will have an undoubted and intended effect of dissuade person from ever even enter the now murky water of what may or may not constitute unlawful ' conversion practice ' . " some have argue that there be a nervousness among some gay member on the Government Benches that fail to support a ban would hold some equivalence to the impact of the controversial section 28 amendment introduce by the Thatcher Government in 1988 , which prohibit the promotion of homosexuality in school . it be well understand by those of we who live through that and oppose the legislation that it reinforce the then ubiquitous homophobia that stifle education and support for gender non - conform young people . thankfully , that policy be repeal in 2003 under a Labour Government , and that be a good thing . however , this proposal would undo all the value of that repeal . the effect of this Bill be much more likely to be directly comparable to the chilling effect of section 28 than in any way enhance its repeal . let we consider , for example , a young gender non - conform person who have a positive relationship with a member of the teaching staff . in the current situation , they be free to discuss and explore their emerge sexuality , and to be challenge on some of the view they hold . that be no easy conversation even in today ' s context , but give that social medium be full of misinformation and enticement that there be some magical , simple fix to complex problem , these be matter that a young person could choose to explore with a trust adult or a parent . the introduction of this legislation would make that nigh - on impossible . teacher , youth worker , nurse , doctor , social worker , church leader and parent would be force to think twice or refuse to entertain such a conversation , for fear of accusation and criminal prosecution . I applaud the hon . Gentleman for his powerful and compelling speech . parent have come to I in tear with their young adult child who have undergone transition some year early and have subsequently come to regret the decision . these parent be upset and distraught , as be the young person . they be fill with regret and pain , and they ask I , as their constituency MP , what I can do to help with detransition . there be really no answer to that . how do the hon . Gentleman think that parent in that very difficult situation , with a teenager experience gender dysphoria or explore their sexuality , will be able to cope under this propose law ? I thank the right hon . and learn Lady for her intervention , which raise important point . they would do so with a sword of Damocles hang over their head . they would do so with the risk that if their child want to be belligerent , to challenge they and push boundary — the normal action of any adolescent — they would be able to use that as a weapon and say , " I ' ll go to the police if you don ' t give I what I want . " that be the reality . that would be one of the pernicious effect of this propose legislation . it would have a direct impact on family life and the normal functioning of the family by undermine parent ' role in provide counsel and guidance , and in test thing out with their child . be open and able to speak freely with their child about difficult issue at the dinner table be one of the most important role a parent have , but this would snuff out the ability to facilitate such conversation . the Bill would affect a broad range of people and it would leave the young person at the mercy of radicalised activist and social medium influencer who operate under the pseudo - theocratic rule of a doctrine that , as I have say , be chaotic , anarchic and disruptive . the hon . Member be make an excellent and thoughtful speech . he talk early about how equal marriage be pass in Scotland and how many of the faith community be bring together with the Scottish Government at the time in order to achieve that . do he understand it be not just christian community that have major concern about the Bill ? in Peterborough we have a large muslim community who be very concerned about how their work will be impact by the Bill , and how some of the madrassah and school will be impact . do he recognise that be a challenge as well ? yes , that be an important point and refer back to the point make in the previous intervention . I have a very busy constituency office and I meet church leader and different faith group to talk about these issue . they be relieve that they have a Member of Parliament who be prepared to stand up on their behalf and ask the difficult question . I have parent with child who be contemplate transition or who be desist , so I deal with that . I also have member of staff in the local health service who be find themselves in a very difficult situation because queer theory have insinuate itself into the culture of all our institution . the staff have no sense of privacy or dignity , and they be concerned about the privacy and dignity of their patient . that be why it be so important to name queer theory as the backdrop against which this legislation be be propose , and my concern be that it would be the thin end of the wedge . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown say that the Bill would be review in four year ' time . yes , we can have amendment and new clause add to the legislation , but that go both way . the next time it be review , all caveat could be remove . the full - throate queer theory doctrine could be force into every part of our society , which be a risk that I be not prepared to leave unchallenged . as I say , the Bill leave young people at the mercy of radicalise activist online , and such activity be to be tolerate . there be no amendment to the Online Safety Act 2023 to prevent access to people who encourage and entice young people to sign up to irreversible medical and surgical treatment from which they can never row back . when someone stop puberty , they can not restart it — that be it — and all the important developmental change that happen during puberty be go . transition be not just about affirmation ; it involve coercion , persuasion and unrealistic enticement , which lead young people who be live through desperately difficult time to believe that there be a quick fix for their problem . the ideology underpin all this be the real threat , and make this legislation much more illiberal and much more difficult for young gender non - conform people than section 28 could ever have be . that be the effect of this legislation : it would block therapeutic support for gender non - conform young people and channel they , through unquestione affirmation , into a lifetime of medical treatment and surgical limbo . we know that gender non - conform behaviour be be use as evidence of gender dysphoria by non - expert in the classroom and in other profession . a significant finding of the Cass review be about the culture that exist at the GIDS clinic , and I ask all member to reflect on the word of the brave detransitioner who be discard by the " be kind " brigade of radicalise activist when they decide to desist . Kiera say : " I become attract to girl , but I have never have a positive association with the term ' lesbian ' or the idea that two girl could be in a relationship . I wonder if something be wrong with I . I be adamant that I need to transition . it be the kind of brash assertion that ' s typical of teenager . after a series of superficial conversation with social worker , I be put on puberty blocker at age 16 . a year later , I be receive testosterone shot . when 20 , I have a double mastectomy . as I mature , I recognise that gender dysphoria be a symptom of my overall misery , not its cause . " Ritchie say : " Homophobia be rife in the local culture , my family and school and it seem to be the bad outcome ever to end up gay . my behaviour be police by other for be too flamboyant or eccentric , and I struggle with fitting in with other . I latch onto the idea with an unfounded zeal , and not a single medical professional stop I thereafter . I delay my appointment for surgery for over two year , because I have doubt . but then they give I an ultimatum and I know that if be not go to go through with the surgery I would have lose my therapist . as soon as I be conscious , I know I have make the big mistake of my life . my sex have be lobotomise . " that be manifestly not inform consent . it be coercive and abusive , and it break all ethical principle of respect for personal autonomy . we need positive LGB and t message , not false promise that personal struggle can be fix by mutilate surgery and experimental drug . but it be not just lesbian and gay young people at risk . Sinead say : " transition evangelist on the forum tell young people like I that all will be well . after cut my long hair short and wear man ' s clothe for a year , I be put on a 12 - month waiting list for treatment at a gender clinic in Glasgow . I could not believe how easy it be . what I need be counsel to uncover why I have come to loathe my body . instead the professional appear to take what I say at face value . when I say I be in the wrong sex and want to be a man , they agree and prescribe I with testosterone . no one ever tell I the truth : ' you ' re not a man . it ' s impossible to de - sex yourself . ' " the effect on those young people have be devastating , because they be deny the help they need . I pay tribute to Sex Matters and the team at LGB Alliance for their invaluable work stand up for the right of young LGB people . I want to challenge a comment that be make early . be lesbian , gay or bisexual be a sexuality . that be manifestly different from be transsexual . I be not indifferent ; in fact , I feel passionate about tran people be look after properly . but to say that , in order for my identity to matter , I have to be team with the trans community be completely unacceptable ; it be homophobic . those organisation that I mention have protect young people from a tsunami of lie . I can not put into word how strongly I feel about this . I thank Keira Bell , Ritchie Herron , Sinead Watson and every other detran person who have have the courage to stand up and speak out . I be absolutely humble by the experience that they have go through and their courage to put that into word . as Keira put it : " it be the job of the professional to consider all my co - morbidity , not just to affirm my na ï ve hope that everything could be solve with hormone and surgery . " I acknowledge that this Bill seek to provide access to therapy and , as we mention a moment ago , to address affirmation conversion practice . however , I ask the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown , where be the therapist ? where will they come from ? child and adolescent mental health service be already under enormous pressure . if through threat , fear or a chilling effect the trust adult who can engage with gender - question young people or those who think they might be gay will be limit in who they can interface with , who will pick that up ? those young people will be leave isolate , unable to speak to anyone about their sexuality . the chilling effect that this Bill risk be enormous . where will the therapist come from ? the reality be that young people will be redirect to the quack on social medium . they will not be able to speak to a trusted adult . that risk have to be understand . the reality be that this Bill put those it seek to protect in harm ' s way and restrict the support that they can draw on . this be the wrong legislation for young gay , lesbian and transgender people . it attempt to solve a problem that do not exist , and foster a new , chilling homophobic culture — just like section 28 . I agree with the proposal from Sex Matters that any legislation should meet the follow four policy aim : outlaw all medical or surgical treatment of minor to modify their sexual characteristic ; outlaw medical surgical treatment perform on anyone who have not have the full implication of the treatment explain to they ; make it a specific offence not to provide adequate information and ensure informed consent ; and make it an offence to take a child abroad to get around the prohibition of modern conversion therapy . Sex Matters helpfully suggest that the legislation could use the model that be use for legislation on female genital mutilation and virginity testing . the not - for - profit organisation the Gay Men ' s Network be establish to tackle modern homophobia , and I engage with it regularly . it agree that the Bill be the extant modern conversion therapy scandal affect gender non - conform young people and other struggle with normal yet distress pubertal body dysmorphia . furthermore , the Bill risk embed in statute the lie that gender non - conform behaviour be evidence that some of those young people be bear in the wrong body ; that the normal development of puberty , which can never be restart or repair , should be arrest with chemical ; and that trauma or emotional distress can be fix with cross - sex hormone or affirm the person on to an accelerated and irreversible pathway , which amount to a policy of transe away the gay . that be wrong , and that practice must be the urgent focus . the evidence be there ; it be widespread . we know of the huge explosion of referral into GIDS , which be close , but the service do not provide any follow - up . for lack of a well phrase , how can it do that to someone ? how can it give surgical treatment and fail to follow it up ? I can not imagine that happen in any other field of medicine . it be completely unacceptable . the Gay Men ' s Network be concerned that an affirmation - only approach could easily be insert as an amendment or a new clause if the Bill go to Committee . go to Committee do not mean that the Bill will be repair ; it could get bad , and we must be mindful of that . it be very generous of the hon . Gentleman to give way a second time . I be again strike by his perspective on the process of conversion , and specifically on the length of time . he be describe a situation whereby people be on a journey , make decision and wrestle with something existential — their identity — and I wonder whether the Bill adequately address that . it seem to I that it address a one - off moment — an incident or an action , reprehensible though it may be — but do not deal with a lifetime of wrestle with one ' s sexuality or sex . I thank the hon . member for that observation . the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) say that a young person have to wait 10 year , for example , for gender reassignment surgery , but during that time they will start on puberty blocker and other such medicine , and possibly cross - sex hormone , and the damage be do . whether they have surgery or not be pretty academic at that stage , because irreversible treatment will have be administer . the other point I would make in response to the hon . member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) be that there be an option not to introduce this Bill and move the issue forward . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown could withdraw the Bill and we could establish a process of community engagement , through community assembly , citizen ' assembly or something of that nature . we could thereby have the debate we should have have five or six year ago , where everybody ' s voice be value , everybody get to have a say , the church be involve right at the beginning and an accommodation be find that make this kind of practice absolutely unacceptable — there be a clear output that this will never happen , but it do not have the strand of queer theory run all the way through it . that be the real problem . let I move on to the document on the Bill publish recently by the Gay Men ' s Network , because the hon . Gentleman address this in some detail and it be important to respond on some of the legal point . the GMN have among its number some legal expert , include a criminal barrister and an award - win legal academic . it make comment about the legislation under a few heading , the first of which be " the wide net of criminal liability in the bill " . the document state : " the bill provide via clause 1 , 4 and the Sentencing Act 2020 that : a . a single act b . the purpose and intent of which c . be to change or suppress d . sexual orientation or transgender identity e . be a criminal offence if not excuse by a defence in clause 1 ( 2 ) we draw attention to the term ' suppress ' , ' sexual orientation ' and ' transgender identity ' . ' suppress ' in comparative Scottish propose legislation be define widely , it include , for example , a concerned parent forbid an autistic daughter from wear a breast binder because regulation of clothing be specifically cite as an act of suppression . this bill propose that the term ' Sexual Orientation ' and ' transgender identity ' mean the same as in the Sentencing Act … this be problematic because that act define neither term . it be important to note that the meaning of ' sex ' ( and therefore sexual orientation ) be not settle in law and a Supreme Court Case on the subject be pende . " I have be listen intently to the hon . Gentleman , but I be curious because the Bill he be refer to be not the Bill we be consider . where be " suppress " in the Bill that we be consider ? it would help I to follow his thought if he could help we with that . I have state where it say " suppress " and the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown mention " suppress " in his contribution . it be not in the Bill . order . the hon . Gentleman should carry on . I will — be the hon . Gentleman refer to clause 4 and line 10 on page 3 of the Bill , where there a specific reference : " to suppress a sexual orientation " ? yes . as I be say , the document point out that the use of the Sentencing act definition be " problematic " because the definition of " ' sex ' … be not settle in law and a Supreme Court Case on the subject be pende . ' Transgender identity ' be similarly problematic because the concept of ' identity ' be wide than the equivalent protect characteristic " in the Equality Act . the document move on to the ineffectiveness of statutory defence , say : " while clause 1 ( 2 ) of the bill make serious effort to deal with concern around prosecution each defence raise serious issue in the following term : a . the religion defence be not a statutory defence at all because it can not apply where a conversion practice have take place . this mean it be not an excusatory defence in criminal law . b . the ' approval / disapproval ' defence be vague and ' disapproval ' be not define c . the ' health practitioner ' defence be a complex three - part defence which place the ' reverse burden ' on a defendant . the definition of a ' health practitioner ' at clause 4 cover most but not all clinical role , ( unregulated therapist , counsellor , helpline operator or online forum moderator would not qualify ) . to rely on this defence , a health practitioner must also prove to the civil standard ( i ) they be comply with regulation ( this term be not define ) ( ii ) that the action they take be reasonable and ( iii ) that there be no ' predetermined outcome ' . place reverse burden on defendant ( particularly clinician or similar ) be generally consider to be undesirable because defendant be not expect to prove their innocence . legitimate clinical practice will sometimes have a predetermined outcome where a confident and clear diagnosis be make . " I can think of example where that would apply in clinical practice . the document continue : " d . the ' assist ' defence be unclear and undefined . e . the ' explore or question ' defence suffer from the same flaw as the religion defence , it apply only where a conversion practice be not prove and so be not a statutory defence at all . f . the ' parental responsibility ' defence apply only where a person have parental responsibility ( i ) be exercise it and ( ii ) where they prove on reverse burden that the welfare of the child be their paramount consideration . as child get old parental responsibility in law be ' exercised ' less and less . require a parent to prove that welfare be not simply a consideration , but a ' paramount ' consideration be onerous and likely impossible for a Defendant parent to prove . " the Gay Men ' s Network also address the human right issue we hear about from the two kc early : " we take the view that the bill as draft be not compliant with the Human Rights Act 1998 and would likely be declare incompatible with the convention for the follow reason : right to a Fair Trial ( article 6 ) a prosecution allege a parent supresse an identity by regulate clothing would require a parent to accept that such an identity exist . that be contrary to Article 6 which require criminal tribunal be independent . it would also compel belief in the criminal sphere in such a concept while disbelief in such a concept be a protect characteristic in the civil sphere . that would create a serious inconsistency in law . " that be very clear . the document continue : " the bill leave key term undefined which be contrary to the article 6 right that a defendant understand the case against they in ordinary and clear language . the reverse burden in clause 1 ( 2 ) impose significant and onerous burden on Defendants and in some case do not amount to statutory defence at all . right to respect for private and family life ( article 8 ) the bill make significant incursion into family life by potentially criminalise parental guidance or regulation that touch on sexual orientation or ' transgender identity ' . difficult conversation that parent have " — as we speak about some time ago — " as a matter of course would potentially be criminalise . far , a parent can only rely on the relevant defence as outline above . this be highly likely to be view as significant state overreach by domestic and supra national court . right to freedom of conscience ( article 9 ) and expression ( article 10 ) this bill would significantly curtail both religious and political expression . a similar bill pass in Victoria , Australia , lead to the domestic human right body regulate public prayer . the fact that criminal liability can trigger from a single incident and the wide meaning of the term " supress " cast the net of criminal liability so widely the offence be likely to be declare incompatible with the convention . " the document conclude : " while the member for Brighton Kemptown have make significant effort to deal with such concern our position be that a bill base on the self - report phenomenon of ' identity ' and the wide term ' supress ' might , despite good effort , perversely fuel the very problem that it intend to solve . " as I mention early , like section 28 , the Bill would likely prevent a young person from secure an explorative conversation with even the most supportive and receptive trust adult , due to its chilling effect . I have also raise the question of who would then provide the approve therapy . move on to therapist , in a recent paper , educational psychologist Dr Claire McGuiggan , Dr Peter D ' Lima and Lucy Robertson highlight the assumption that psychologist will be the one who will guide the response and who have the skill to do so , but observe that psychologist be divide on this issue , too . they note the following : " in response to the interim finding of the Cass review … the Association of Clinical Psychologists - United Kingdom … publish a statement demand a radical shift in the support for young people with gender concern . they call for more comprehensive multi - disciplinary assessment and increase consideration of sociocultural factor , such as homophobia . the ACP - UK also strongly convey the uncertainty about how good to intervene related to the dearth of robust and high - quality datum on the safety and effectiveness of medical transition , and the inability of clinician to ascertain clearly who will persist or desist in their gender dysphoria … the ACP - UK statement be meet with a rebuttal from a group of clinical psychologist in an open letter to the ACP - UK … they disassociate themselves from the ACP - UK response … within educational psychology profession , however , only two educational psychologist have publicly reference the concern reflect in the Cass review . " apart from those two voice , the psychologist claim that there be silence , avoidance and suppression . silence : there be no response from the Association of Educational Psychologists or the Division of Educational and Child Psychology , and no guidance or caution , despite it be report that educational psychologist be expertly place to support trans - identify young people . avoidance within the profession : it almost appear as if the Cass review do not happen at all , and that there be clear consensus on how good to support trans - identify youth . their approach be affirmation , and that be the problem . alongside that , there be suppression . that be be enact on social medium , where clear message have be put out that if anyone ask a difficult question , they be to be shut down and report to the regulator and will face disciplinary action . that be the culture at the back of all of these piece of legislation . that be the risk : professional can not become activist . that be happen in education and in educational psychology . the paper lead the author to raise the fundamental position — I absolutely agree with it , and it apply to so many discipline — that surely a healthy profession , a profession which pride itself on child - centre , evidence - base reflective practice , can not continue to avoid , ignore or suppress the issue any long . it must openly , explicitly and deeply engage with it . disagreement must be tolerate and explore . the alternative be avoidance of the issue to protect educational psychologist from discomfort at the expense of the need of child . the hon . Gentleman be make a fantastic speech . I live by this quote of Thomas Sowell : " there be few thing more dishonorable than mislead the young . " it have stick with I ever since I read it . the House need to remember that . do the hon . Gentleman agree that if we can only affirm a child ' s choice , to believe that they be in the wrong body , we be in a desperate situation and would be in a place where we be mislead the young ? that would be absolutely tragic for every child , every parent , every teacher , every member of the clergy and every practitioner , not just in this country , but across the world . I thank the hon . gentleman for make that important point . this be a question that every single Member of the House need to bear in mind : what will they do in five or 10 year ' time , when a sea of people who be affirm and rapidly put on to a pathway of irreversible treatment , come to the politician and say , " you do this to I . you say this be okay . you make this policy . you stop I from access therapy . I need therapy " ? we have have the warn sign from Keira and other . we know that that be a real risk and we know that detransitioning be under - report . a lot of people be out there , suffer in silence . they be not be listen to . no service be reach out to they . they may feel completely lose and at sea . we have to think very carefully about facilitate that and put a new tranche of young people on to that irreversible pathway . the EPs make a really important point , and I will take up another point from the intervention of the hon . member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) . my professional background be in work with young people in cancer care . I work with old paediatric patient from the age of 11 upwards and sometimes into young adulthood . it be quite amazing how young people can accommodate some of the most difficult information . they can face challenge that would humble most of we and make well - inform decision , but the reality be they have no choice in that situation , because they have cancer , and nobody can make that go away . I know that young people can make courageous decision , but there be a fundamental difference between help and guide a young person through those type of choice and affirm a young person on an irreversible pathway of medical surgical intervention that be completely unnecessary . I can not for the life of I understand how any professional can say , " I do a good job today because I have allow this young person to go down this irreversible pathway , " know full well the later effect of those type of treatment . all that be important , because comprehend one ' s adult self as a child be different from deal with difficult question that can not be avoid . while child have aspiration and idea about who they want to be when they grow up , base on their experience and observation , their understanding be limit by their cognitive , emotional and physical development . proponent of queer theory often claim that Gillick competence allow all child to consent to any treatment or process , but that be a complete misunderstanding of what Gillick competence be . it be a name confer to a legal principle establish in the UK with Gillick v . West Norfolk and Wisbech Area Health Authority , which state that minor under the age of 16 can consent to medical treatment without parental consent if they demonstrate sufficient understanding and intelligence to comprehend the nature and implication of the treatment . I refer back to the comment I just make : that be simply not possible , because that be not something a young person can do . child can not grasp the full complexity of adulthood in the way that adult can , and they do not have the ability to project themselves into their as yet unformed future adult self . however , child can still develop a sense of their future self , which may evolve and change as they mature . the good way to deal with that be to build a relationship with they , talk about how they feel about thing and themselves and have that dialogue . this legislation limit that , and that be important parenting . piaget ' s theory of cognitive development highlight how child ' s understanding of themselves and the world evolve as they mature , and other researcher have also look into childhood development . we know the science behind all this , and the Bill get in the way of allow child to actualise and become their authentic self by limit their exploration of these important and defining facet of who they ultimately will become . all the above lead I to my final argument : the inversion of John Stuart Mill ' s harm principle . articulate in his work " on Liberty " , it assert that the only justification for society or the state to interfere with an individual ' s liberty be to prevent harm to other . accord to Mill , individual should have the utmost freedom to act as they please , as long as their action do not harm other . that principle rest on the idea of individual autonomy and the importance of personal liberty in a free society , and it have profound implication for the role of Government and the limit of state power . it advocate for minimal interference in the private life of individual , allow they to pursue their own interest and lifestyle without undue constraint , as long as they do not infringe on the right and wellbeing of other . the Bill unquestionably interfere with the freedom , right and wellbeing of everyone , include those whom it claim to protect . mill ' s harm principle remain a cornerstone of liberal thought , emphasise the importance of individual freedom while acknowledge the need for societal constraint when harm be involve . this Bill usher in a wholesale redefinition of the harm principle whereby it will be illegal to say the " wrong thing " even if it inflict no perceivable harm , while simultaneously inflict a totalitarian queer theory world view on everyone else . that be my fundamental concern about the Bill . I think it important that we address the issue , but now be the wrong time , this be the wrong Bill , and queer theory be absolutely the wrong backdrop . if we really want to protect gender non - conforming and other vulnerable young people , we should recognise that they deserve a robust defence of free speech as a basic right , essential for the exchange of idea and the pursuit of truth . despite the sincere attempt of the hon . member for Brighton Kemptown to carve out exemption , we simply can not ignore the fact that the Bill be the thin end of the wedge of the introduction of queer theory doctrine into UK law , and the survival of those exemption be contingent on their not be amend or nullify by the insertion of new clause and amendment . this be not a ban on conversion practice ; it provide the ammunition of criminal accusation for radicalised gender activist , many of whom be vociferously homophobic . any legislation that facilitate a process to " trans away the gay " be deeply sinister and dangerous . as I say at the outset , legislation be suppose to fix a problem , not create a new one . this proposal do real and foreseeable harm , and it should be reject by every Member of the House and every LGB and t person who truly value the equality and the fundamental human right of everyone . this legislation must ultimately be defeat , or we will risk deprive a generation of young LGB and t people from become the fabulous , vibrant and unique gender non - conform people they have every right to be . I will end where I begin my contribution to the recent Westminster Hall debate , by quote Kierkegaard , who say : " there be two way to be fool . one be to believe what isn ' t true ; the other be to refuse to believe what be true . " it be a genuine pleasure to speak in the debate . along with many other member , I have be seek to secure the protection that the Bill afford for quite some time . I congratulate the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) on his success in the ballot , and on choose to present such an important Bill . as the back page show , it be support by nine other member , all of they conservative . the hon . member be not normally know for his calm and measured manner , but I have to say that in his work on the Bill he have operate with good grace , and I commend he for his patience and his effort . it be a matter of regret that despite numerous promise of legislation from the Government for some year , it have fall to a private Member ' s Bill to introduce it . nevertheless , we be at long last have a debate on the Floor of the House on draft and publish legislation . both main party in the House can point to positive measure take over many decade to bring about equality , dignity and protection for LGBT people , include decriminalisation , equal age of consent , civil partnership , equal marriage , and the lifting of the ban in the military . I be proud to be a Member of Parliament who , as an out gay man , stand up for all in our LGBT community , use my position in this place to stand up for people not because I be one of they , but because they deserve our voice , every single one of they : the L , the g , the b and the t . have take the time to read the report of debate from those important milestone on the march to where we be now , I be strike by the voice call for change . there be those who oppose they , but time march on and progress be make . I hope and trust that we can make real progress today , and whether member agree wholeheartedly with every word of the Bill , or think that it go too far or not far enough , let we get it to Committee . I recently visit Ghana as part of a delegation from Parliament to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference , and have the opportunity to discuss the legislation that that country be plan to approve , which shockingly offer conversion therapy as a means of evade jail for homosexuality . the fact that that legislation have now be pass in Ghana , and embrace that which we be seek to ban today , tell we all that we need to know . in prepare for this debate , I be tell of the story of a 13 - year - old boy who know he be gay but , because of the view of those around he , feel guilt and shame . he be subject to shake and incantation pray over he for the demon of homosexuality to leave his body , and be encourage to return regularly until he be cure of his homosexual desire . he be naturally shake by that experience , and suffer the scar for many year . thankfully , he do not go back . that young man now work as my parliamentary assistant , and be happy and content in who he be . that small story be just one of many that have be share in recent year as the debate about this ban have unfold . there be some who do not believe that this abuse — it be abuse — exist . this House have enact many piece of legislation to offer protection from harm that we ourselves may not have experience , but we in this place have a duty to provide protection for those who require they . indeed , just this morning we pray to God to lay aside our prejudice and seek to improve the condition of all mankind , as we do every day . if protect people we do not know and will never meet from harm that we have never experience be not live up to that noble ambition , I do not know what be . I have speak in debate on this issue multiple time and have ask question many time , and I have be proud to do so . many other conservative Members have do so as well , consistently and passionately , and I be pleased that a number of they be here today to support the Bill . will my hon . friend join I in congratulate the activist and musician Vicky Beeching on the book that she write about her experience of conversion therapy , " undivided " ? I encourage he and everybody else in the House to read that book , because it be the experience of people such as Vicky that be exactly why we be here today , to prevent further damage of the kind that have be do to those people . at the end of the day , government in its very nature be suppose to be behind the notion of first do no harm , and harm be be do to our citizen . do my hon . friend agree that it be absolutely crucial that the Bill pass Second Reading today ? it be absolutely crucial , and I be grateful to the hon . Lady — dare I call she my hon . friend — who accompany I on that trip to Ghana and hear those harrowing story from member of the LGBT community . we stand for some thing in this place , and today be an opportunity for we to progress far . the freedom and liberty to be whoever a person be , be at the core of my belief . no one , whether they wear a white coat or a religious cloak , should be able to attempt to change who that person be . it do not work , it never have and it never will , so let we ensure that we send a clear message from this Parliament . I be proud to support the Bill , and I give it my full support . it be a real pleasure to follow the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) . I share many of his sentiment . he speak very powerfully , particularly about his assistant ' s experience . conversion practice be abuse . there be no other word for they . they cause harm , and that harm can be lifelong . we must be clear that , in the 21st century , we do not accept LGBT people be subject to these practice . of course , the Government promise to outlaw this abuse almost six year ago , and they have fail to do so . in the absence of Government action , it have be leave to a Back Bencher , my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) , to develop his own legislative proposal for a ban . I commend he , as many have , for work assiduously with member on both side of the House to bring forward this Bill . he have set an example in seek to build consensus on a sensitive and important issue , and I share his regret that , despite that joint working , there be still a lack of clarity on where the Government will land on this issue . I hope that , follow those intensive and very positive discussion and interaction , we will see the Government support the Bill , which I believe be a genuine attempt to help they with their repeat promise to enact a ban on conversion practice . labour stand ready to work with Ministers when plan for a legislative ban be include in the Queen ' s Speeches of 2021 and 2022 , and we look forward to the promise pre - legislative scrutiny of a draft Bill . indeed , as recently as December , the Minister say that he remain committed to tackle conversion practice . we be promise further detail of the Government ' s plan in this space in the near future . in fact , a ban on conversion practice have be announce , in some form or another , eight time by successive conservative government since 2018 , yet no ban have be forthcoming . this failure mean that LGBT people be still at risk of this abuse . the hon . Lady make an important point about the need for clarity . she have now say the word " practice " five time , and she have say : " conversion practice be abuse . " so that I can well follow she , will she describe the scale , scope and nature of the practice that she reference ? we have already have a thorough discussion of that in this debate . all the example be detail in the Bill , which I hope the hon . Lady have read . not only be there instance that some might claim be cover by other form of legislation , but there be case that be not cover . I have look thoroughly at the Bill , as she would expect , and I have consider the claim that some of these practice might be cover by coercive control legislation and so forth , but that be not the case . we be talk about abusive practice , and we hear an example just a few moment ago . I thoroughly encourage she to read this Bill , wherein she will find what she seek . some member will know that I work closely on the Equality Act 2010 as a Government Whip . we work carefully and cautiously to pass that Act . we address genuine concern from both side of the House , and we build cross - party consensus and support . I believe that we could do the same with this Bill . do my hon . friend agree ? yes , and that be why I believe the Bill should go to Committee . Labour have be consistently clear on the subject of scope and definition . we believe that there need to be a ban on abusive practice , but we also believe that there need to be clarity that any ban will also protect , for example , explorative talk therapy and counselling , the expression of religious belief , discussion within family and so on — I have repeatedly speak about this on the record in different debate in the House — and those exclusion be replicate in the Bill , as those who have read it and study it will be well aware . again , I encourage member to read and study the Bill . we believe that a ban on these practice must be carefully , tightly and clearly word and appropriately implement and assess , which should be par for the course for any legislation and must apply to a ban on conversion practice , too . I be confident that if this Bill be allow to go on to Committee it will also be such , and my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown have make a noble attempt to bring those on the Government Benches with he in the journey towards a well draft ban on conversion practice . to get there , his Bill should progress to its next stage so that it can be properly scrutinise by the House of Commons in Committee . in the absence of any draft legislation be lay by the Government , this private Member ' s Bill represent an opportunity to protect LGBT people from harmful practice and to ensure that critical issue around scope can be thoroughly debate and resolve in Committee . if those on the Government Benches be truly serious , as many have say they be , about fulfil their repeat promise to enact a ban on conversion practice , they should support the Bill as a means of enable that very progress . we on the Labour Front Bench support the Bill in that spirit . I congratulate the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) on bring forward this Bill on such an important issue in an area where the Government be keen to make progress . first and foremost , let I be clear that so - call conversion therapy practice be dangerous and abhorrent and any new legislation in this area must seek to identify those practice as a particular threat to the LGBT community and confirm the illegality of harmful process intend to change someone ' s sexuality . the Government remain committed to an approach that protect everyone from harmful conversion practice , include the transgender community . LGBT people should be free to live their life without threat or fear for simply be who they be . Lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgend people be value and important member of society and harmful conversion practice be inherently wrong and have no place in this country , first because they be abhorrent and , secondly , because they simply do not work . on this , we find strong and welcome agreement across the House and I be pleased that we have be able to have a balanced debate with differ view in all part of the House . it be important that we lead by example in this place , because there be a wide debate across the country and we have to show that we can debate these sensitive issue in a responsible way . however , the Government position be that unfortunately this Bill carry a lack of legislative clarity which risk unintended consequence , and the Government be well aware of the complexity of this issue from our own extensive work . I be sure the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown will not mind my say that there have be honest meeting with Ministers and challenge have be discuss , and it be clear that he have wrestle with challenge in his Bill which have go through various iteration . the Bill as it stand be a genuine attempt to overcome these challenge , but its clause raise considerable concern and I will come on to they in detail shortly . the Government have rightly take time to carefully consider our own position on these pitfall and will be publish a draft bill on this topic for pre - legislative scrutiny — [ interruption . ] I be come on to that . we expect publication to be after the publication of the Cass review , which will be in the come week . as we have hear throughout the debate , Dr Hilary Cass have say that there be no reason to delay a Bill on conversion therapy ; she have say multiple time that there be no reason to await the Cass review to move forward . none of the promise make to bring forward a Bill ever mention the Cass review previously . it feel like there be more excuse about why we need to delay this . when be a decision make to now wait for the Cass review , because that be news to many of we ? I welcome that valid intervention . I direct my hon . friend to the Cass website , which say in frequently ask question : " the Cass Review be commission as an independent review of NHS gender identity service for child and young people . its term of reference do not include consideration of the propose legislation to ban conversion therapy . " however — [ interruption . ] if I may finish , it also say : " no LGBTQ + group should be subject to conversion therapy . however , through its work with clinical professional , the Review recognise that the drafting of any legislation will be of paramount importance in build the confidence of clinician work in this area . " so the review have find evidence that may influence our conversion practice Bill , which be why we be wait for the report . do the Minister accept that if the Bill be to get a second reading , any of the Government ' s worry about the current wording could be resolve in Committee ? those concern be not a reason not to give the Bill a second reading today . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown have make that argument as well , but we feel it be important to get the detail right at the start of the legislative process rather than towards the end . would the Minister be good enough to give some indication of what such a draft pre - legislative Bill would look like ? the argument present from our side of the equation demonstrate manifestly that it would be impossible for the Bill to overcome its difficulty in relation to criminal law and the like in Committee . I take my hon . friend ' s point . that be why the Government propose to publish our Bill and take it through pre - legislative scrutiny in both Houses before it follow the normal process in Committee . we will be able to shape the legislation in a way that deal with many of the concern that have be raise today . as the House be well aware , this policy area be complex and nuanced . it be clear from today ' s discussion that colleague be listen and think carefully about the challenge the Government have encounter in prepare legislation in this space , notably ensure that legislation be clear , balanced and respect freedom of speech , belief and religion , and do not cause unintended consequence for parent , clinician , teacher or religious group . both side have talk about the harm cause by many of the practice we have discuss , yet there be nothing in the Bill state that intent to harm should be a prelude to any prosecution . do my hon . friend accept that if that be to be put into the Bill , it would remove many of the fear about the net be cast so widely that those who unwittingly cause offence might face such measure ? my right hon . friend make a valid point . some of the fear be about the unintended consequence of this legislation , and I be sure that amendment to the Bill would allay some of those fear . as it stand , although the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown have make tremendous effort to address some of the issue , the level of care and attention require to legislate responsibly mean that we need to look at the subject from a wide perspective . we have have so many promise from the Government about bring this legislation forward — it have appear in two Queen ' s Speeches . we be promise the legislation in January 2023 , but it be now 1 March 2024 . if the Government want the House to debate their legislation , will the Minister publish it so that we can discuss it ? my hon . friend be right . I have not speak from the Dispatch Box before about this particular subject , but my colleague the Minister for Equalities and the Minister for Women and Equalities have be focus on try to overcome some of the concern raise today that could stop any legislation , whether it be this Bill or the Government ' s Bill , get through both Houses . time have be take to address those concern so that we can come together to legislate against conversion practice . for clarification , be the Minister imply that every time there be a new Minister we start again from day one ? be she able to give a timeframe for the Government Bill — by May , June or July ? as a government we speak together , but I be just express my frustration on behalf of colleague . I acknowledge that this have take a long time , and I want to explain why . I try to indicate early that we be expect the Cass review in the come week , and we aim to publish the Bill for pre - legislative scrutiny very soon after that . let I come to the Government ' s concern about this Bill and address some of the issue raise . we have concern about four area : the propose definition of conversion practice , the inclusion of the term " suppression " , the propose parental exemption and the territorial extent of the provision . I will take those in turn . first , we be concerned that the definition of conversion practice in clause 1 be simply too broad . a conversion practice be outline as a " course of conduct or activity " . even with the provisos that an act must be repeat and underpin by a predetermine outcome in order to be in scope , that remain a very broadly draw offence that lack legislative clarity . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown have produce explicit exemption in clause 1 ( 2 ) to clarify that certain action be out of scope , but the Government be concerned that those exemption be insufficient and there remain a risk that some reasonable behaviour would be catch . I do not want to delay the Minister , because we want to get on with this now . she will acknowledge that I twice present these clause to the Government . twice the Government come to I and say , " we will get amendment to you within a week . " I agree that I would accept any Government amendment . twice the Government come back say , " no , we don ' t have any amendment yet for you because we can ' t find anything that we ' ve sign off . " I worry a bit about bad faith , and I hope that if we accept the amendment that she be propose , she would be supportive , rather than produce just another list of question . I take on board the hon . member ' s point , but the final Bill be publish only this week . I take on board his point about future amendment should the Bill get to Committee . I appreciate that he intend his Bill to be a framework into which exemption can be build , but when create a broad new criminal offence that could be alter in future by power , we believe that robust protection and scrutiny must come at the beginning of the legislative process , not the end . secondly , the risk be far heighten by the inclusion of " suppression " within the scope of the offence under clause 1 ( 2 ) . for example , if a religious leader support an individual who want to manage their same - sex attraction in order to align with their individual religious belief , where the individual consensually seek out religious counselling , this Bill would still criminalise that support . that be just one tiny example of what we mean . despite the hon . Gentleman ' s good effort to the contrary , the Bill risk create a chilling effect on clinician — we have hear some of those concern today — by position healthcare regulation within the context of criminal law . the impact on healthcare professional may well be the single big challenge within legislation in this area . that be part of the reason why we consider pre - legislative scrutiny from the breadth of medical experience available across Parliament in both Houses to be so critical . as I say in response to my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) , that concern be cite by the independent Cass review , the final report of which be expect in the next few week . our third concern be about the Bill ' s attempt to exempt parental behaviour in clause 1 ( 2 ) . the Government be clear that parent should be able to have exploratory and even challenging conversation with their child , and it would be absolutely wrong to criminalise they . I thank the Minister for the help she have give I recently with regard to the issue face man and boy , which be a subject close to my heart . I be equally supportive of woman and girl . do she agree that this Bill — or any Bill that criminalise free speech — will have a huge effect on woman and girl across this country ? we will get to a point where parent will be unable to say to their sweet little girl who come home from school , have see the abhorrent material in relationship , sex and health education , " no , you ' re not a boy ; you ' re a lovely little girl , and you ' re go to grow up to be a lovely little girl . " do she also agree that the Bill will put biological male in single - sex space , which again be abhorrent , and take away podium place from girl ? order . intervention should be short . the point I be make be that parent have a right and that we , when legislate in this area , must be careful to ensure that we do not criminalise legitimate conversation in the family set . sadly , we have see case — for example , those involve female genital mutilation — where a lack of parental responsibility have lead to the abuse of child . we be concerned that , by not cover that in this Bill , there be potential for conversion practice , which could be abusive , to continue . I be slightly confused , because the Government be say that this Bill protect parent too much , but those speak against it be say that it will criminalise parent . I be not sure where we will go , but I presume that government lawyer know slightly more than those who be oppose the Bill from the Back Benches . that be the point I be make : this be a sensitive area , where there be argument both for and against on all side . we absolutely believe in parent ' legitimate right and freedom to bring up their child in any way they see fit , but we have to be careful about that tip into abuse . we have see that happen , for example with FGM . our final concern be about the territorial extent of the Bill . clause 5 say that it will apply to the entire United Kingdom , which pose issue because , as the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown know , justice be a devolved matter in Northern Ireland and Scotland . indeed , as many member here today will be aware , the Scottish Government be currently consult on their own legislative approach to ban conversion practice . the requirement for the Director of Public Prosecutions to approve any prosecution be at odd with the Bill ' s territorial extent , which I would say wrongly cover Scotland and Northern Ireland . the Crown Prosecution Service operate in England and Wales only , because Scotland and Northern Ireland have their own criminal justice system , which mean that the requirement to have CPS approval would not apply there . a separate provision create equivalent requirement for the Northern Ireland equivalent of the CPS , but there be no explicit provision for its scottish counterpart . those be the four main area where we have issue with the Bill . first , the Minister have to recognise that the Bill will be bring into force in Scotland or Northern Ireland only if there be the consent of the legislator and Ministers in those two place . secondly , the argument she have just give be legally incorrect , because in Scotland there be already a requirement for the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service to give authorisation for private prosecution . that be why it be not need in the law . I would have think that government lawyer have tell she that in the briefing . it be disappointing that they do not seem to know the law . I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman feel that way , but we have to be clear about the territorial extent of the Bill . we have concern about that , because the Bill should relate only to England and Wales , but it do not . the Minister have make an important point about the problem with the requirement for DPP permission , but be there not an even more significant problem with that ? although it seem like a safeguard , in reality — look at the CPS website — all that mean be that a Crown prosecutor have to give permission . any Crown prosecutor — even an activist Crown prosecutor — could agree to such a prosecution and thus create case law that criminalise parent in future . we have set out our four concern , which include the territorial extent of the Bill . I have set out why the Government will not support the Bill today . I want the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown to know that I be really grateful for the work he have do in this space , and I hope that we can continue to work together on this issue , particularly on the legislation . today ' s debate have far highlight the need for careful consideration before legislation be pass , so that unintended consequence can be avoid . it have also demonstrate the importance of take action that be balance and measure in order to protect those at most risk of harm , but also to protect the freedom and right of everyone . that be the kind of balance that can be achieve only with bespoke legislation , and although we absolutely pay tribute to the hon . Gentleman , we will not support this Bill . rise — claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . there be a number of people leave to speak on what be a very important and controversial Bill , and a number of issue have not yet be raise , so I object to the closure be move now . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . diane Abbott Rushanara Ali Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Olivia Blake Crispin Blunt Ben Bradshaw Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Elliot Colburn Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Dehenna Davison Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Clive Efford Damien Egan Simon fall Mike Freer Barry Gardiner Peter Gibson Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Helen Hayes Rachel Hopkins Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Seema Malhotra Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell James Murray Charlotte Nichols Caroline Nokes Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Luke Pollard Bell Ribeiro - Addy Lloyd Russell - Moyle Gary Sambrook Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Alex Sobel Alistair Strathern Zarah Sultana Jamie Wallis Claudia Webbe Matt Western Nadia Whittome William Wragg Christian Wakeford Tonia Antoniazzi Caroline Ansell Suella Braverman Paul Bristow Fiona Bruce Bill Cash Miriam cat Christopher Chope Nicholas Fletcher Chris Green Neale Hanvey Philip Hollobone Robert Jenrick Danny Kruger Robin Millar Chris Philp Amanda Milling Mark Jenkinson the House divide : Ayes 68 , Noes 15 . the Deputy Speaker declare that the question be not decide in the affirmative because few than 100 member vote in the majority in support of the motion ( Standing Order no . 37 ) . debate resume . I rise to lend my support to the Bill in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) . I must say how disappointing it be that we have get to a position where it look like the Bill will not be read a second time . due to filibuster by one Member on the Opposition Benches and a lengthy debate , it look like we will be fail an entire section of the community . I commend my hon . friend for the way he have go about bring forward the Bill . he joke at the start that the Whips Office think it could be " batshit " — that may or may not have be I , I don ' t know — but he should be thoroughly proud of his approach in introduce it , which be moderate and level . I know his colleague be immensely grateful to he , too . the Bill represent a crucial step forward in protect the right and dignity of the LGBT community across our nation . put simply , the Government have a problem and this be a way to solve it . on 6 December , I host a Westminster Hall debate on this very issue and I share the story of Sienna and Ben . for brevity , I refer colleague to Hansard to see what be debate on that day . conversion therapy be a barbaric and deeply harmful practice that seek to change a person ' s sexual orientation or gender identity through psychological or religious mean . it be root in bigotry , prejudice and outdated notion of sexuality , and it have no place in a modern , progressive society . no one can consent to abuse . in short , the practice be abhorrent and evil , and it need to end now . despite the overwhelming evidence of the harm cause by conversion therapy , successive government have fail to take decisive action to outlaw the cruel practice , and they have do so again today . when the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) be Home Secretary , she announce that the Government would do just that , and since then numerous minister , include the current Leader of the House , have say that we should ban conversion therapy — no ifs , no but — yet we be still wait for that to happen . that be a stark dereliction of the Government ' s first duty , which be to protect all citizen , regardless of their sexual orientation and gender identity , and their right to wellbee . the Government ' s moral wrong and hypocrisy on this issue be glaringly obvious . although they claim to support the community and equality , their inaction on conversion therapy speak volume and send a chilling message to LGBTQ individual that their life and identity be somehow less worthy of protection and respect . this be a dark day for this place . I hope the Government and the Minister find a way to come forward with amendment . I want we to work in a cross - party manner to address the situation . we can not allow vulnerable individual to be subject to this harmful practice under the guise of so - call therapy or treatment . by send my hon . friend ' s Bill to Committee , we could have send a powerful message that discrimination and bigotry have no place in our society . we could have reaffirm our commitment to equality , dignity and human right for all , and finally put an end to the scourge of conversion therapy , but it look like we have choose not to do so today . I will have to think about this long and hard on my train journey back north today , and I hope everyone will reflect deeply about what this mean for they and for this place as a whole , because we be here to protect individual . it be still not too late to pass this Bill , so I urge all member to stand on the right side of history and support this crucial legislation . let we come together to protect individual ’ right and dignity , and send a clear message that love be love . no one should ever be force to change who they be , who they love and what they believe in . ultimately , we must end this evil practice now . I will try to keep my remark brief , because a number of member still want to get in . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) — who be not in his place — because , as he say , he engage widely with a range of colleague . although he and I have have our moment in this Chamber , which have be broadly publicise , I want everybody to know that behind the scene we have have some very good , constructive , friendly conversation about this issue . I thank he sincerely for that , and for the very mature and calm way in which he speak today ; I think we would all acknowledge that . there be a number of issue with this Bill , which have be widely cover by a number of hon . member . specifically on the point about the way the debate have be conduct , and what I have value in it , the Minister say that it have achieve in bring to the surface the issue , complexity and concern that be prevent — or at least delay — the Government from introduce a Bill in this House . I completely agree . despite the wide range of view express in the debate , we still have not establish what it be that be not yet illegal but should be make illegal . that be why I do not believe this Bill should progress through Parliament . in fact , I do not actually think we can legislate safely in this area at all . I do not want to rehash other hon . member ' comment , but I have two particular concern about the Bill and its drafting . first , we have already refer to the fact that a DPP would have to give permission for a prosecution to be bring . on the face of it , that sound like a sensible safeguard , and certainly it be a good thing that private prosecution can not be bring , but from look on the CPS website , it be clear that the permission of the DPP just mean the permission of any Crown prosecutor , and all it would take be for one Crown prosecutor who particularly want to secure a conviction on these term to bring that case . case law would then be make , and then the chilling effect that so many member have refer to would indeed be achieve for parent , teacher and therapist . the other safeguard that be very much lacking in the Bill as draft concern the ability for a Secretary of State to amend the Bill through a statutory instrument — in other word , a Henry VIII power . a number of member who have speak today in support of the Bill support it only because of the particular exemption for therapist , parent and religious leader , and those exemption could be strip out by a Secretary of State through statutory instrument . that ability to amend the Bill in future beyond all recognition and all agreement of the House in itself make the Bill unsafe . my particular concern be for parent who sadly absolutely could be criminalise under this Bill . I agree that the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown have try hard to create these carve - out for parent , but if a parent in exercise their parental responsibility be find by a court to have commit an action that count as conversion therapy , how would that court then find that that parent have be act in the good interest of the welfare of the child ? that seem highly unlikely to I and very likely to lead to parent be prosecute , or at least to feeling that they can not speak freely to their child , as they would wish to keep they safe and prevent they from make irreversible decision . I be also concerned about therapist . again , I can see that the hon . Member have make significant attempt to create a carve - out for therapist deliver exploratory therapy and talk therapy , but unfortunately the carve - out include that a therapist must be act within the regulation of whichever body they be affiliate to . unfortunately , the vast majority of these regulatory body , include the NHS , have sign up to a memorandum of understanding that essentially mean that anything else but affirm a person ' s gender identity be against those regulation . again , this exemption , though well mean , unfortunately do not count for anything . an example of a problem that could be cause come from a lesbian lady I meet last year . she tell I that she have experience gender dysphoria since her teenage year . she have seek out a private therapist to help she to come to term with her own female body and to live happily and successfully as a lesbian woman with a partner . she choose that therapist because they have a predetermine purpose of help she not to move to a transgender identity . unfortunately , that therapist , who I think many of we would agree should absolutely be allow to practise on those term , would be criminalise under this legislation because of their predetermine purpose to suppress a transgender identity . if such a purpose be make illegal , the lady I speak to would no long have access to that kind of therapy . nobody in this place could really argue that that therapy be harmful . it be fully consensual , and we should not be criminalise those conversation . my hon . friend be be generous , and I commend she on the point she be make , because these be legitimate question we ask of the Bill . perhaps she can answer this . it seem to I that in clause 1 ( 1 ) , in the absence of specificity about behaviour and in the reliance on the interpretation in clause 4 of those word " purpose and intent " , in effect we have legislation that be create a form of thought crime . I absolutely agree . although member have speak about abuse and persistent pattern of behaviour — all of which be certainly serious — the reality be that in the drafting of the Bill , a single act could be bring as a criminal offence . there be not sufficient safeguard in the Bill to prevent that from happen . for example , let we say that I be a primary school teacher and a girl come to I and say that she feel she be actually a boy and that she have be bear in the wrong body . if I say to she on one occasion , " no , actually you be a girl . it be great be a girl " — perhaps she be gender non - conform in some way , and she think that mean she be not really female — I probably would not be catch by this Bill . but if I say that to she repeatedly — in other word , if I tell she the truth and guide she , as adult should guide child — I very much would be catch by this Bill , especially if I be a gender - critical feminist who have put thing on social medium that prove that I do not believe in gender identity ideology , for example . those be exactly the kind of behaviour that we absolutely can not criminalise in a democratic and free society . parent and child be my principal concern here . in the past two year , my inbox have be full of tragic story of child , often girl , often same - sex attract , often autistic , who have be groom online and often by activist group , sometimes in school , into believe that they be actually boy . sadly , some of these child have go on to be prescribe puberty blocker , and cross - sex hormone . some be actively pursue radical surgery that will leave they infertile , unable to breastfeed , and with medical problem for the rest of their life . it be already difficult enough for parent , teacher and employee to speak out against this ideology . the hon . member for somewhere in Scotland — Kirkcaldy . thank you very much . the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) put the point brilliantly : the backdrop to this debate and legislation be one where gender ideology have very much pervade our culture and institution , and that be what parent be battle against . one mother write to I say : " my daughter begin identify as a boy at age 13 , follow a presentation by a trans adult in her school ( all keep secret ) . Hers be the classic story : puberty , autistic trait , severe bullying , same - sex attraction . she be socially transition without our consent , and then refer ( with our consent ) to the Tavistock . the GP later tell I she didn ' t support medicalisation due to the lack of evidence , but fear for her job if she say so . in the four year since , I ' ve be refer to social service three time for be ' abusive ' ( but deem each time by social worker to be a love mother ) . my daughter ' s trans identity have be celebrate at school and ' support ' by mainly male teacher — one of whom tell she he like to cross - dress on the weekend . she learn she be 48 % likely to attempt suicide , and that her family be commit hate crime . this have not be good for her mental health , or our . my other daughter be 14 and 7 . they too have learn about gender identity theory at school , and have be interview by social service each time we ' re refer . our last school , which proudly display its Stonewall Champion certificate behind the reception desk , go even far . every time I have safeguard question , they tell I about equality , diversity and inclusion and also british value . they enrol my daughter as male , and send she to secret therapy since I be consider a risk . we have somehow manage to prevent she from access irreversible medical and surgical intervention , despite everyone else ' s good effort . the way I would describe my experience as a mother be that my daughter jump in front of a train , so I jump in front of she , and get hit by the train . intercept letter from the NHS , be refer repeatedly to social service , and be socially ostracise have be worth it . buy time have allow she to go through puberty and consider whether it be autism that make she feel different . for now at least , she have decide not to pursue more drastic option . if my action have be criminalise , I don ' t think she would have be in the fortunate position she be now : live at home with her love family , and with her body , fertility and mind intact . " I have countless other testimony such as that , which I do not have time to read out now . some of they be heartbreaking and some do not end in the same way — some of they end with the permanent severing of the relationship between parent and child , with the child take down a route of permanent harm , against the parent ' s good intention . before I finish , I want to make it clear that , unfortunately , at the heart of the Bill be an irreconcilable difference between those of we who support the Bill and those of we who do not . the difference , for those who believe that it be not possible to change sex and not possible to be bear in the wrong body , lie in the question : how do we define this concept of transgender identity ? I appreciate that the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown have refer to a different piece of legislation , the Sentencing Act 2020 , but if we read it , we see that it do not attempt to define these term . it certainly refer to they and talk about they as aggravating factor in assault , which of course they should be . it tell the court to take account of whether someone have use some transphobic abuse or refer to somebody as transgender or transsexual during an assault , and say that should be an aggravating factor . however , that be not a definition of transgender or transgender identity . the truth be that we can not define it because it be something that be feel . although people might well feel it very strongly , if it can not be define in law , how can we safely legislate for it ? how can we ban someone from convert someone to or from transgender if transgender can not be define ? if , like I , people believe that gender ideology be not base on factual evidence , that we should therefore be tell child that they can not change sex and that we should be help they to live happily in their own sex , however they want to dress and whatever hobby they want to pursue , how can we legislate for it if we do not think it be real ? that be the problem at the heart of this Bill , and it be why we can not safely legislate in this space . it be why we absolutely must not put these contest and unevidenced idea into law . I genuinely thank my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) for bring forward this Bill . he have behave in an exemplary way from the very beginning , and his conduct today demonstrate what a worthy proponent he be for this cause . I will not speak for long . I do not prepare very much because I hope for a successful closure motion , but I want to put on record my continue support for a comprehensive ban on conversion practice . as we have hear in many speech today , conversion practice be simply horrific , and it be utterly disappointing that this Government have , yet again , break their repeat promise to act on these heinous practice . what do it say about our politic that Parliament have be deny the chance to act against the heinous abuse we have hear about today ? will the hon . Lady give way ? no . do not try my patience . I remind all colleague that protect the right of LGBT + people and advance equality use to be see as a share mission across the House . as I say early , I be the Government Whip on the Equality Act 2010 , and we work so hard to pass a law that carefully and cautiously address the genuine concern of those who oppose those measure . there be disagreement but , with real effort , we build cross - party support . I honestly believe that we can do the same with this Bill today . when we debate the Equality Act , people could see that our common aim be to protect the vulnerable and to help all our community live well together . even a few year ago , however much we argue about the detail , most of we believe that progress be be make on equality in the UK and globally . that share understanding be the basis for the Conservative Government ' s welcome pledge to ban conversion practice . sadly , it seem that we be lose even the aspiration to work together on improve everyone ' s life . instead , the medium narrative and our politic be drive by attempt to stoke division . frankly , I now get email from LGBT + constituent whose understandable emotion be often fear and panic . I know that the issue we be discuss today be far from simple , and I have receive many impassioned message from constituent with many different view , which make it important for we to start with compassion and common sense . I believe that we can find our way through the disagreement and distortion about the scope of the Bill , as we have on many previous equality issue . give that the Government ' s agenda have completely stall , I have hope that Ministers would make a commitment today to work in good faith with my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown on this Bill but frankly , give today ' s shenanigan , I be not hold my breath . it could not be clear that some conservative Members would rather pursue their politic of divisive culture war than engage . I know that many Conservative Members recognise the damage that be be do to our country by all this division , and want to put compassion and solidarity with victim first . that be what I stand for today , that be what I vote for today , and that be why I support my hon . friend ' s Bill . it be , as always , a pleasure to follow the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , although I feel that I must correct she on one point . the House be not deny the opportunity to take the Bill forward . the fact be that only 68 member support the closure motion : that be the measure of support for it in the entire House . there have be a fair degree of consensus on a number of issue today . most important be the consensus that coercive practice which attempt to change by force the legitimate and legal belief and practice of any individual in our society have no place in the 21st century . it be worth reiterate that at the outset . it be also , in my view , not for the state to interfere in the non - harmful behaviour of any citizen — include the right to freely express one ' s sexuality , which , as a doctor , I consider to be simply part of a natural spectrum of human behaviour , and it be worth make it clear that we have a consensus on that as well . I do believe , however , that we have a duty to protect the vulnerable from undue pressure , from whatever direction and for whatever reason it may come . I strongly agree that we need to protect individual from undue pressure to express themselves in a way that would be untrue to their natural character , which be not acceptable in a civilised society ; but , in the wide debate about trans issue , we must be willing to protect young people from undue influence exert by those who may have different motivation so that they do not make decision that might be irreversible and which , with a different level of maturity and experience , they might choose to make differently for themselves . a couple of contribution have be of particular value . the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) talk about the risk of people be draw inadvertently into the scope of the Bill through behaviour that they believe to be legitimate — for example , challenge young people so that they could gain the benefit of experience , in term of what their parent might advise they to do . there be also the possibility of the medical profession be inadvertently involve if a practitioner express a particular view in private and be then ask to give advice . these be very complex issue . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) , who I think have genuinely try to get round some pretty immoveable object when it come to law in this area , and I be grateful to the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) for remind we that the debate be about people . it be not about abstract issue ; it be about individual and the impact that it have on their life , and also how element , at least , of the medical profession can be just as subject to the whim of fashion in politic as any of the rest of the population . I be glad that the debate have be conduct , in general , in a thoughtful tone . it could easily have degenerate into what we might call strongly hold view or inadvertent self - righteousness , but it do so at very few point . it be a debate that need to be deal with in a proper tone , but in the wide debate we have see too much assertion and too little rational discussion . the good example I can think of be the treatment hand out to J . k . rowling and her row on Twitter . of course , our assessment of the volume of the response must take account of the fact that this be the world of the Twittersphere — or the x - sphere , as I suppose it be now — but such vicious , extremely aggressive and often threaten language really have no place in our discourse on serious issue in this country . what strike I about that intervention be not that the writer herself be not entitle to post her view because of her background — as one critic put it , because " her cis - identity and its majoritarian privilege be overwhelming " . the sinister part be it be not a counter - attack or riposte to the view she have post , but an attempt to delegitimise she and thus her intervention . although the Bill will not go forward , I hope that across the House we can understand and agree that , wherever we come from on the political spectrum , we need to make it clear that the view of those like J . k . rowling be just as legitimate as the view of anyone else . the aim to silence , cancel and delegitimise individual view have no part in proper democratic debate in our country . the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown work hard to try to get the Bill into a well position , and good law need to be necessary , clear , effective and enforceable and to avoid unintended consequence . like many in the House , I be not clear exactly what the necessity be for the Bill , because I do not hear describe in any clarity the sort of offence that be not cover by legislation already and that would require yet another piece of legislation . when the Minister come forward with the Government ' s legislation , I look forward to its be clear about what exactly we intend to outlaw . we all understand the extreme element that be the background to the debate , such as violent enforcement and so on . it disturb I that part of the explanatory note to the Bill , give to we by the House of Commons Library , say , " technique can take many form and commonly range from pseudo - psychological treatment to spiritual counselling . " that be where I have real reservation about where we be today and where I feel it be unclear what the necessity for the legislation be . the right hon . Gentleman say he do not understand or have not hear scenario in the debate that would be cover by the Bill but be not cover by exist legislation . I give he the scenario of an unregulated therapist — that is , someone who be not part of any register body , of which we have many in this country who do significant harm , and there be another debate , possibly , about register they . that unregulated therapist can take a vulnerable person — to some extent , anyone question their sexuality or transgender identity be vulnerable because they be question — and repeatedly tell they that they can not be that , they should be ashamed of that , and they should be disgust about that . that do not meet a criminal threshold . it might meet a threshold many year down the line of a psychological harm that we will not know . surely that be a clear example where this Bill , or a Bill like it , would act , but he suggest there be no example . order . again , intervention should be short — I understand the reason . if the point the hon . Gentleman make be valid , it be valid in the other direction , too . it should be wrong and , in his case , criminalise to tell any young person that they be definitely something when they be unclear about what they be . if that be what come out of our debate today , that be a step forward in the wide debate . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will give way briefly because other member still want to speak . do my right hon . friend agree that the noble Lord Winston put it well in the other place when he say , " the basic problem be this : we be at risk of legislate for a piece of biology that we really do not understand . we do not understand the underlie mechanism " ? — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 9 February 2024 ; Vol . 835 , c . 1847 . ] I would not want to contradict the noble Lord in any way whatsoever , but there be other element of the Bill that give I cause for anxiety . I know those be part of the reason the Government have find bring forward legislation difficult . we have talk on both side of the House about the concept of the harm that could be do by these process , but there be no test of harm in the Bill . if all form of conversion therapy cover by the Bill can be harmful , surely it would not be unreasonable to have a test of intent to do harm prior to any prosecution be bring under the legislation , and yet that be not in the Bill . that be a vital part miss from the Bill , because that be about second - guess people ' s intent , rather than any concept of their wish to do harm . that cast our net far too wide in law . there be two other point about the drafting . the first be that the use of the term " activity " , as well as refer to a " course " of action , mean that a single event — a one - off event , or a one - off conversation — could , if interpret in a particular way by a prosecutor , bring people within the scope of the law . that need to be tighten , and I say to my hon . friend the Minister that if the Government be bring forward legislation , that be something we need to look at , as be use of the term " suppress " alongside " orientation or identity … in full or in part " . again , this loose language potentially come unstuck when a parent have a strong and necessary challenge to make against their child in order to give they a different view . it could be interpret very wrongly if this be the wording of any legislation . finally , I will say this : we be here to produce good law in the House of Commons ; we be not here to signal to any one part of the population that we be on their side . we have to ensure that the law we produce have the intend effect and that that law be necessary . I hope my hon . friend the Minister will look at these element closely in the day and month to come . I be grateful to have a chance to speak in this very important debate and I thank the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) for introduce this private Member ' s Bill . I note the reference that the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) make to common sense and compassion , and I share her aspiration for compassion and common sense in this debate . rightly , we want to ensure that we have compassion and that our law provide a compassionate level of support for the gay and LGBT community , who deserve to live freely and safely in our country and , indeed , the whole world . I also care about compassion for young people who will be explore their sexuality , potentially with mental health challenge — vulnerable young people need the help and support of informed professional to guide they in a way that do not cause irreversible damage to their body , which they may later come to regret . the story of Keira Bell , illustrate very powerfully by the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) , be a case in point . we must have compassion for young people in the situation of Keira Bell . I have compassion for parent who be try valiantly to navigate this uncharted territory these day . I have meet parent who be struggle , who be upset , and who themselves be depressed and overwhelmed by their teenager try to discover their sexuality and suggest that they want to transition . as parent , they really be in no man ' s land and they do not know what to do ; they only want to do right by their young child . and I have compassion for teacher , who also find themselves mire in this minefield , not know what the guidance be or what the rule be , and who be scared of cause harm inadvertently or , on the other hand , deny legitimate right . that be why I welcome the Government ' s issuance of draft guidance for school on how to support gender - question child . it be a good start and have come after many year of request . my personal view be that it do not go far enough and , ultimately , if we be to safeguard the welfare of child properly , we need to totally ban transition under 18 . if that require a change in the law , then I can not think of any well reason to change the law than to support and safeguard young child in those circumstance . I appreciate those who support the Bill ; they be well - intentione and I share their aspiration . I hate the idea of gay conversion — it be nasty , it be vicious , it be insulting , and it be disgusting that we be even talk about it . I feel sorry for those people who may have undergo those kind of approach and treatment ; they do not deserve it . I be proud to live in a country where we support the gay community . I be proud that it be a Conservative Government who legislate for same - sex marriage in 2013 . I be not a Member of Parliament at the time but , have I be , I would have vote in favour , because I believe in equal opportunity . gay people should not be persecute , discriminate against or victimise just because of who they love . let we remember that in many country around the world , today in the 21st century , it be criminal to be gay — that be a grotesque shame on the society that we live in in this world . homosexuality be a criminal offence in about 60 country , half of which be in Africa . for example , the death penalty be legally prescribe as punishment for same - sex sexual act in Brunei , Iran , Mauritania , Saudi Arabia , Yemen and some of the northern state of Nigeria . in Afghanistan , Pakistan , Qatar , Somalia and the United Arab Emirates , the death penalty could be apply because of a lack of clarity in the law . I abhor that that be the case in part of the world ; that a person could be kill just for be gay . that be why I be very proud of the protection that this Conservative Government have put into place over the past decade . that include same - sex marriage — of which I be very proud — and the introduction , by the Ministry of Defence in 2021 , of pardon for historical conviction for gay sex offence in the military . that finally bring an end to century - old legislation that have previously devastate the life of many gay man . in 2017 , ture ' s law give automatic pardon to deceased man who have be convict of since - abolish offence . it be very good to hear that there have be hundred of application for a formal pardon follow the introduction of those measure by this Conservative Government — right the wrong of the past , as should be do , and bring justice , eventually , to those who be wrong . yes , we in the United Kingdom have make progress in stand up for gay right , and I be very proud of that . and I oppose this Bill . I feel obligated to make it clear on the record that I be not transphobic , and I be not homophobic , because I be sure that rise today to make this speech will lead to another barrage of trolling , abuse and hate mail because of the view that I hold . my view be bear out of compassion for the gay community , but also compassion for young people ; a sincere belief in the immutability and binary nature of sex ; and my dearly hold view about protect single - sex space for woman and safeguard child . I feel obligated to make that clear today because , sadly , we will all be smear very quickly after this debate — a sorry indictment of our public discourse on this subject . I have grave concern about this Bill , for several reason . I will not go into they in a lot of detail , because a lot of they have be set out by other colleague , but I will deal first with the need for the Bill . I have hear what the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown have say , but I strongly challenge his reliance on evidence that suggest there be a chronicled , verifiable problem that need to be fix by a new law . there be a complete absence of verifiable , quantitative evidence demonstrate that harmful conversion practice be widespread or occur frequently in this country . I have refer to what be happen , atrociously , in many other country around the world . thankfully , those thing do not happen in this country . will the right hon . and learn Lady give way ? I will not , because of time . there be very little evidence that conversion therapy be a current problem in this country . the various survey that have be quote , such as the national LGBT survey of 2017 or the Ozanne Foundation ' s faith and sexuality survey , have severe shortcoming in their evidence base and the way in which they be compile . a police freedom of information request demonstrate that police force throughout the UK , when ask whether they have receive any report of electroshock treatment or corrective rape between 2010 and 2020 , respond with relevant datum and confirm that no police force have ever record any such complaint . the other thing that have be cite by the other side be instance of unregulated therapy , which would fall foul of this new law . be my right hon . and learn Friend aware that the Children ' s Act 1989 already specify that therapy , or any practice that be likely to cause psychological harm , be already a criminal offence ? again , even the non - coercive , non - threatening and non - violent abuse , which the other side be try to criminalise , be already illegal . my hon . friend bring I to my next point , which he have just make very powerfully . the exist law already protect gay and tran people from verbal and physical abuse , much as he set out . the offensive and abhorrent practice that we be talk about but can not yet evidence include corrective rape , electroshock therapy , forced marriage , scream in the face , hold down while pray , threat of physical violence , harassment , coercive or control behaviour , and other physical and verbal abuse . however , all such activity be already criminal under myriad law , range from the Sexual Offences Act 2003 to the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 . there be a long list , which I do not have time to go through . I want to make a swift point . a whole range of legislation be in place to manage many of the concern that have be voice across the Chamber , and no one be in any way suggest that we support they — I certainly do not support conversion practice — but any legislation that look at this have to have absolute precision about what exactly it be address . the problem with the Bill be that it be so wide in scope and it replicate legislation that be already in place . we need to look at what the current legislation cover , look for the gap and , if it do exist , then legislate precisely to address the problem . the hon . Gentleman put that incredibly well . it remind I of Edmund Burke , who say : " bad law be the bad sort of tyranny . " bad law make bad custom , and in this place we want to avoid good people make bad law . I be afraid that the coverage by the legislation of all sort of horrendous behaviour that be be talk about mean that there be no good reason for it . it be a bad law . I hear what my right hon . and learn Friend say about exist legislation cover many of the thing that this Bill be seek to protect people from . will she outline to the House what work she do , while at the Home Office , to ensure that sufficient provision , advice and guidance be give to the Crown Prosecution Service and to police force to ensure that they have the requisite knowledge to deal with such issue under the exist law ? during my time as Home Secretary , we issue new guidance on non - hate crime incident , and it support many aspect of what we be talk about — not all , but some . we clarify the parameter for such non - hate crime incident to protect minority group , to protect the LGBT community , and to ensure that fairness and safety be apply by police . the next reason be that the scope of the Bill be incredibly wide , as the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath say . the Bill do not require the defendant to intend any harm to be cause in order for their action to be criminal , which I find incredibly concerning . that will capture so many type of behaviour where there be an innocent or well - intentione objective and where legitimate practice , whether in the religious , therapeutic or teaching field — or just be a regular parent — will be catch . that might be inadvertent , as we have discuss today , but some thing will necessarily be catch by interpretation of some of the clause . I do not agree with much of what the right hon . and learn Member be say . she must recognise that we do legislate in the House for thing other than harm . for example , we legislate against false advertising . we legislate in other area to say that people can not do certain thing , even if they do not cause direct harm to individual , because it be for the social good of the fabric of our society that those thing do not happen . be not the point to say that , when explicit harm be cause , it be criminal and Home Secretaries should have put forward guidance for it to be prosecute , and where it be not harmful but it be dangerous for our society , we should produce a threshold for that ? be that not the point of the Bill ? I agree with the hon . gentleman to the extent that we have victimless crime and we have legislation that provide for those kind of offence , but the Bill run the risk of cause harm through bad law . I will come on to the point about the potential harm cause by the propose legislation . as I say , I seriously and strongly challenge the evidence base that the hon . Gentleman rely on to suggest that there be a definable problem that need to be fix in this country . my next point be about the potential harm cause by this well - intentione but misguided Bill . there would be a disproportionate impact on people of faith . the language of " predetermine purpose " would disproportionately catch people of faith . many religion — most religion , I would argue — make many claim about the truth , base on a body of teaching to which follower must adhere . in traditional religion at least , any religious advice will be predetermine by that teaching , and that will be communicate to people . a priest , an imam , a rabbi or any leader in one of the major religion who attempt to pray for a member of their congregation who have present to they with concern or anxiety about these issue would be catch by the Bill . there would be a real chilling effect on expression of religion and freedom of religious belief . it be clear in the exemption that individual prayer be not catch by the Bill , but if member feel that that be too thinly define , we could thrash it out in Committee . can the right hon . and learn Member tell I any mainstream religion whose religious text say , " you must change your sexual orientation or your transgender identity " ? I be not aware of any , so I do not understand why any religion would be catch by the Bill . order . before the right hon . and learn Lady respond , I just want to point out that several other member still wish to participate in the debate . I be be generous with the promoter of the Bill . listen , we all know that in religious contexts people will pray for all sort of thing about fellow traveller in their faith , so my point stand . lastly , because I be conscious that other people wish to speak , I be very concerned about the impact of the Bill on parent , teacher and therapist . I speak not as the Member of Parliament for Fareham , who have meet many constituent , include parent who be upset and traumatise by observe what their teenager or young adult have go through , but as a mum of young child who be begin their education in british school . as a mother , I feel it be my responsibility to do everything — to give my life — for the safety of my child . I would do anything for my child , as I know every parent would . if I be in the position of have my own child present with anxiety or present question like this , I would want to support they and I would want they to be happy , but I would also want to direct they in the way that I know well , consistent with my parental authority , educate and teach they about gender and sex . in my view , in our household , in my family , we believe that a man can not be a woman ; a boy can not be a girl . that be what I would be tell my child , with the good intention and from a place of love . if that be to criminalise I , that would be a cry shame and a total undermining of good parenting in this country . may I start by wish you , Mr Deputy Speaker — my fellow Welsh expat — a happy St David ' s day ? I want to pay my respect to the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) for introduce this private Member ' s Bill . it be a real shame he have to do so . the Government have promise time and again to bring in their own Bill to ban conversion therapy ; we have promise it in two conservative party manifesto , and we have speak about it in , I think , two queen ' s Speeches . it be important that no one in this country should be make to feel ashamed of who they be . I find it difficult to believe that a practice that seek to change or suppress someone ' s sexual orientation or gender identity persist in some part of our country . I know that this practice be an issue . I have to admit that I be sceptical that conversion therapy even exist in this country until a constituent come to see I . she be a lesbian woman who be under so much pressure to marry a male . she be be force to go to family event and take part in religious ceremony , because her family think she should be able to stop be a lesbian , become a heterosexual and marry a man . the pressure and depression that this woman be suffer make I ashamed to have ever question whether conversion therapy exist among some community in this country . it be imperative that the Government remain committed to protect people from these awful practice so that they can live their life free from the threat of harm and abuse . will my hon . friend give way ? no . I take this issue very seriously , as the LGBT + community have always be a value part of the two city in my constituency . I feel fortunate that my constituency have a rich LGBT + history . it be home to one of the world ' s well - know gay district , our beloved Soho . from host the first UK Pride march in 1972 , Soho have play an important part in London ' s , and perhaps the UK ' s , gay community . it be of huge historical importance ; many of the conversation on gay right start in the same bar and space that still line the street of Soho . Madam Deputy Speaker — sorry , Mr Deputy Speaker ; I be not convert you . [ laughter . ] I will move swiftly on . I be a 55 - year - old woman — I know it be hard to believe — and we have come so far in my lifetime on improve the right of the LGBT community . I recall a bisexual friend of mine who have live in the west end for decade remark that we have come so far in place like Soho . in my lifetime — in the past 20 , 30 or 40 year — a gay bar be hide from view . People have to sneak in . they have to knock on a door , and the window be board up . today , we celebrate gay bar , and I be sure many of we in this Chamber do quite regularly — [ Laughter . ] I be not say anything , Mr Deputy Speaker . but seriously , let we also remember the pressure and harm that the LGBT + community have face , and perhaps still do face . next month , 30 April will mark the 25th anniversary of the bombing of the Admiral Duncan pub in Soho , a beloved venue of Soho ' s gay and non - gay community . I recall that night , as I be in Soho that Friday evening enjoy a night out . since that terrible crime , where three people die and 89 be injure , our country have see important change in attitude to gay people and tran people , with huge stride in the improvement of human right for the LGBT + community . we have hear today of so many different piece of legislation and law that we have bring in , include the Equality Act 2010 and the numerous law that this Conservative Government have introduce over the past 14 year . we must ensure that we continue to do that . I absolutely understand the concern that have be express today about how we legislate on conversion therapy . it can be very difficult when someone want to support a family member through love , perhaps to get therapy , or a teacher be approach . take advice and undertaking therapy be very different from coercive practice . the coercion element be key to this Bill , and I hope that , when it be introduce , the Government Bill will aim to enforce that . we have such an outstanding history of fight for LGBT + right , and it be so important that we continue that narrative . I believe that we must enforce on coercive conversion therapy practice because that would send a message to all gay people , all people from the LGBT + community — whether they be start out on their journey or end it — that they have the right to be who they be . I compare this type of legislation with legislation on FGM . that have be on the statute book for decade , and we have only just see prosecution and , in the past week or so , the first conviction . be it wrong to have legislation outlaw that heinous practice , whether it take place here or involve a british citizen be take abroad to undergo it ? it be right that we send a clear message to the LGBT community that we support they and they be not alone , and that we send the message to those who want to coerce and stop they be who they be that they should not do it in this country . I congratulate the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) on the very thoughtful way in which he introduce the debate on his Bill . any medical or psychological effort or practice that include violence or coercion to change a person ' s sexual orientation or gender identity be wrong and already illegal . my primary concern about the Bill be that it could intrude into the legitimate activity and practice of religious group and faith leader . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , if the hon . Gentleman do not mind , as I want to get a few point on the record . yesterday , I meet local religious leader from church and mosque in Peterborough . like I , they have significant concern about the Bill and the profound impact that it would have on their ability to offer pastoral care . we speak for an hour and have a good , constructive conversation about the effect that the Bill could have on they and their family and friend . it be important to stress that we agree that everyone should be free to live their life , whatever their gender or sexuality , without be persecute . this be 2024 in Great Britain : no one deserve anything less than the utmost respect and understanding , regardless of their gender or sexuality . however , it be obviously and rightly already illegal to discriminate on the ground of sexuality or gender , so not only be the Bill unnecessary on one level , but it could have unintended consequence . it risk silence people for offer honest and good - natured support , often to very vulnerable people . the Bill also do not comply with protection of the right to freedom of speech and to religion set out in the european convention on human right , as have already be say . that be one of the main action point of our meeting yesterday . it can not somehow become illegal for a priest or an imam to offer advice to a member of their congregation . obviously , that would be unthinkable . will the hon . member give way ? I will not , sorry . I want to make that point very clearly . when I send out my email to that group of faith leader in my city , I do not understand what sort of response I would get . it be always important for a local Member of Parliament to listen to their constituent and to those who have influence over a large number of they , so I be very grateful to Mohammed Younis of the Darassalaam mosque on Alma Road , Imam Mansoor from the Ghousia mosque , Tommy Cooper and David Weeks from the Way Family church in Werrington , and Giles Knight from the Open Door baptist church . those people come to that meeting and be very open minded ; they want to contribute to discourse . most importantly , they want to be able to offer the same pastoral care and support to their flock . the other main issue I have with the Bill be that it be too ambiguous and confusing . it be too open to reinterpretation and could be use in a potentially harmful way . for example , if a young man be confused about his gender and seek advice at his local church or mosque , would it be illegal for the relevant religious leader to suggest that he should not go ahead with a gender change ? what about a married man who be tell by a pastor or imam that he should stay with his wife and remember the promise he make to God ? if he explain that he be attract to another man , would it be illegal to say , " remember your marriage vow , remember the child you have and remember the promise you make in front of God " ? these be the very serious — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 15 March . business without Debate Consular Assistance Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . court ( Remote Hearings ) Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Fertility Treatment ( Employment Rights ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 June . Arms Trade ( Inquiry and Suspension ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 19 April . Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 22 March . prison medium Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . local Government ( pay accountability ) Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . child Criminal Exploitation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 15 March . St Helier Hospital Improvements and New Hospital : Sutton Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) it be a pleasure to have the opportunity to raise in this House my local hospital , St Helier Hospital , once again , and of course the delivery of a new hospital in the London Borough of Sutton . a rudimentary search of Hansard tell I that I have mention this over two dozen time , so I be grateful to the House for indulge I once again . indeed , it be just one week ago last year that I have an Adjournment debate on a similar topic . I commit a year ago that as soon as the new hospital be build and St Helier upgrade , I would stop bang on about it . I reconfirm that commitment here today . St Helier Hospital be not just close to my heart ; it have a long history . it have be a vital part of the community long before it save my life , long before it save the life of my family and my partner in recent year , long before the new hospital programme or covid , and long before I be bear . in fact , as I have say in this Chamber before , the hospital be old than the national health service itself . it open in the early ' 40 during the second world war . soon after open it be bomb in an air raid , but remain open and operational . it have serve generation of our local community , include my own family . through my constituency work as a Member of Parliament and as someone who use to work for the NHS before I be elect , I have see the fantastic work do by St Helier Hospital , the Epsom and St Helier University Hospitals NHS Trust , and the wide NHS . I take this opportunity to place on the record my sincere thank and gratitude to the fantastic NHS staff , who do such a fantastic job in keep my constituent healthy . they be an example to we all , and I know at first hand how good their care be , often in the tough of circumstance . it be about the work not only of our doctor , consultant and nurse but of all the other healthcare professional , as well as the support of admin staff , porter , cleaner , pharmacist — I be so glad we be start to recognise how amazing pharmacist be — and many other who help keep the NHS moving . I mention early that I never miss an opportunity to mention St Helier . indeed , my first mention of it be in my maiden speech , in which I praise the Government ' s commitment to deliver over half a billion pound ' worth of investment in the hospital , and to build a new hospital . I would like to do so once again today . before be elect in the last general election , I campaign to improve healthcare by protect St Helier and build a second state - of - the - art hospital in my borough . I be thrilled that , despite what some people might say , it be this Conservative Government who be deliver that vital project . some people ' s lack of recognition of the work that have be do so far be appalling . they should be support any positive progression in our local healthcare . our staff , our patient and my constituent deserve an improve St Helier Hospital that will continue to be there for they and , indeed , a second brand - new hospital to deal with the most complex case . to properly discuss St Helier and the need for this vital work , it be important to go back and look at the background . in July 2017 , the trust begin a comprehensive engagement exercise on the long - term future of the trust ' s healthcare service . year of work follow with the local clinical commission group — the predecessor of integrate care board — in Merton , Sutton and Surrey Downs , which lead to a formal consultation be launch in early 2020 , when it be propose that the trust would take ownership of the consultation and the delivery of a new hospital as part of the building your Future Hospitals programme , with work start on an outline business case . throughout the year , and throughout covid , the work continue . in May 2023 , the then Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , announce that the Building your Future Hospitals programme would be fully fund and complete by 2030 . the trust have be very quick to get on board and be ready to go at a moment ' s notice , and it be eagerly await confirmation while progress with some of the work that need to be do in the interim . the trust have recently receive the excellent news that it will get additional fee for 2023 - 24 from the new hospital programme , and hope to have confirmation of the fee for 2024 - 25 shortly . the trust be already do great work , at pace , to deliver part of the programme on an accelerated timescale , and I understand that a final decision on the next financial year ' s fee will be make alongside consideration of the business case later this year . I join the trust in hope that it be confirm as part of an early cohort of scheme , because it have already demonstrate how ready it be to go . however , some of the work that need to be do in earnest include land acquisition from the Royal Marsden Hospital , junction improvement , site demolition and the like . this be an issue that I will come back to later . I fully understand the difficulty that exist with St Helier ' s current site and the difficult situation face the hospital . I can reassure my constituent — I know that the NHS trust want to reassure people , because we see such an old building that be struggle to cope with deliver modern healthcare — that St Helier be progress and push ahead with much - need maintenance . as I have say , much of the St Helier estate be old than the NHS . in fact , 90 % of the building be old than the NHS , and every year the trust invest million of pound to try to address the urgent challenge and improve the building and facility , to ensure the environment be safe for patient and staff . a small fortune be spend each and every year on maintenance , and it become hard and hard as modern medical practice demand more sophisticated technology . that serve to highlight the vital need of this project and why we need to move at pace . Epsom and St Helier be ready to fully mobilise as soon as their fee be agree and approve , and it be vital to fully spell out what this will mean for local resident . the programme will deliver a brand - new , state - of - the - art specialist emergency care hospital in Sutton . it be simply not true to say that St Helier be close ; in fact , quite the opposite be true . the project will upgrade the exist infrastructure at Epsom and St Helier hospital . that mean that we will have not one but two hospital in the London Borough of Sutton . it will represent the large healthcare investment in our local area for decade , replace outdated infrastructure and attract new staff to face down the challenge that be currently plague our local hospital . the new specialist emergency care hospital will provide critical emergency care , acute medicine , paediatric and childbirth service to the 15 % most complex and sick patient in the borough , while the remain 85 % of service will continue to be provide at Epsom and St Helier hospital . that mean that , despite all the time in the past when other government before we consider close St Helier Hospital and get rid of A & e and maternity , we finally have a plan that keep all those service within our borough . I will say once again for the benefit of those listen that this be a brand - new hospital in our borough , alongside a new and improve St Helier Hospital . that be incredible news for local patient , but we have to get on with it . some incredible work have be do already to prepare the site at Sutton . other work include the recent refurbishment of b and c block at St Helier Hospital . nothing could put it well than a recent Care Quality Commission inspection of service at Epsom and St Helier , which highlight how difficult the infrastructure be for the patient care for there and the staff deliver that care . it recognise the need for investment in the infrastructure . I be glad the Government have meet that commitment , but we need to let the trust move as quickly as possible , because it be ready and rare to go . we must meet its ambition . I take the opportunity to invite the Minister , who be in her place , any Minister from the Department of Health and Social Care or the Secretary of State , to come and visit the trust , look at the site in Sutton , and see how excited the trust be and what amazing plan it have . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister confirm at the Dispatch Box last June that the Government be fully commit to the new hospital programme , and that " the Department be work closely with the trust to make sure that we can progress work as soon as possible , and we expect the new hospital to be deliver by 2030 . " — [ Official Report , 14 June 2023 ; Vol . 734 , c . 295 . ] I would very much like to receive that same reassurance today . the trust have be work within the constraint of what it can do so far , but , as I want to hammer home , it be ready to go at pace . I sincerely hope that we can match the trust ' s ambition . I hope that the Minister can update I or , perhaps when she be in a position to do so , write to I to confirm when the 2024 - 25 fee will be announce , which be fundamental to the preparatory work need to deliver the new hospital . I hope she can reassure I that those fee will be substantial enough to fully allow the trust to move at pace , as it be ready to begin deliver these project . the trust be so excited , as be my constituent and I , about what this mean . I can not stress enough how many time there have be a question mark over the future of the hospital — at least our A & E and maternity service . we now have a plan , which be develop by our NHS colleague and fund by this Government , to prevent any of that from happen . in fact , it be the large investment in our local healthcare in decade . the trust be ready to go . we need to ensure that we deliver the finance and the infrastructure to allow it to do so . we can see progress this year , as the trust have a plan to deliver that visible progress , so I sincerely hope that I can tempt the Minister and her Department with that visit . I look forward to continue to work with the Department , and I must say how constructively it have work with I and my constituency neighbour when we speak about how much we want the programme to be deliver at pace . I thank the Department for that , and I hope that the Minister can give I some good news that the Government be equally excited to ensure that the project continue at a very quick pace . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) on secure this debate . I assure he that the Department be also very excited about this project . he be a tireless campaigner for healthcare in his constituency , and I know he have advocate for this new hospital on many occasion . I be delighted that the trust have do an amazing job of decrease backlog maintenance year on year across its site , particularly at St Helier Hospital . we be work closely with Epsom and St Helier University Hospitals NHS Trust on its plan for a new specialist emergency care hospital in Sutton as part of our new hospital programme . the trust be currently prepare its refresh outline business case , support by the new hospital programme team , to ensure that its plan be align with the national approach to standardisation , be deliverable and , of course , provide value for taxpayer ' money . the plan for the new specialist emergency care hospital will include a new major emergency department , acute medicine , emergency surgery , critical care for intensive monitoring and paediatric care , as well as both midwife - lead and consultant - lead birth unit . however , 85 % of care will still be deliver at Epsom Hospital and St Helier Hospital . I could kick myself for forget to mention that we have not only those incredible service but a brand - new working partnership between the Royal Marsden , an incredible cancer hospital that we be very lucky to have in Sutton , and the specialist emergency care hospital . we can provide more and improved service for cancer patient with the two trust work closely together . I be grateful to my hon . friend for highlight the importance of work across specialty to deliver the good possible care . I be delighted that the trust continue to work collaboratively with the programme on develop design for its new hospital scheme , follow our national approach to standardisation , Hospital 2 . 0 , through which we will see the most benefit from economy of scale and efficiency . the scheme have receive more than £ 23 million in development funding by the end of the 2022 - 23 financial year . this funding have support the trust ' s activity to prepare for main construction , include the vacation of block at St Helier ready for demolition , and a new electronic patient record system that will be implement next year . in the current financial year , we have release over £ 1 million in fee to support the trust to develop its business case for early work to prepare the site for main construction . part of the funding be for a programme of demolition and groundwork to prepare the Sutton site , which we expect will start later this year , as well as to ensure that vital utility be available at the new site , include power upgrade and junction improvement . I assure my hon . friend that minister be commit to keep he update as further funding be release . I be pleased to note that the trust have receive additional funding from national programme in recent year , include £ 7 . 3 million allocate for the relocation of service from the new Epsom and Ewell cottage hospital and the Poplars to Epsom General Hospital . the construction be complete and have be patient ready since August 2023 . the trust previously receive £ 6 . 1 million for A & E upgrade work at both Epsom Hospital and St Helier Hospital , to improve flow through the emergency department by increase A & e capacity and capability . I take this opportunity to provide a general update on the new hospital programme and the ambitious work it have be undertake . I be very pleased that four of our new hospital be now open to patient : the Northern Centre for Cancer Care ; the Royal Liverpool Hospital ; stage 1 of the Louisa Martindale , also know as the 3Ts Hospital , in Brighton ; and the Northgate and Ferndene Hospitals in Northumberland . a further four hospital be expect to be open by the end of the next financial year : the Salford Royal major trauma centre , Dyson Cancer Centre , the National Rehabilitation Centre and Midland Metropolitan University Hospital . a further 18 hospital be either in construction or have early construction activity well under way or complete to prepare their site . that include survey and crucial work on non - clinical infrastructure , such as energy centre , demolition and car parking . the programme will deliver facility that be at the cutting edge of modern technology , and we be engage with clinical staff to ensure we be provide they with a well work environment , enable increase efficiency , promote staff wellbee and improve retention . I thank my hon . friend for his continued engagement on his new hospital scheme . I know that my ministerial colleague with responsibility for the programme , Lord Markham , be arrange to meet he and other colleague to discuss the new hospital plan in more detail . I appreciate how tirelessly he campaign for his constituent , and I assure he that we be committed to deliver the new hospital for Epsom and St Helier University Hospitals NHS Trust by 2030 . question put and agree to . House adjourn .