Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Budget 2024 : unemployment what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the Autumn Budget 2024 on level of unemployment . the Budget make the choice need to fix the foundation of our economy . take those into account , the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that unemployment will fall to 4 . 1 % next year and remain low until 2029 . we be take action to support job and growth , and to transform employment support to get Britain work . will the Minister answer a simple question : since the Budget , have unemployment rate go up or down ? I have just give the OBR ' s assessment . it be worth note that there be still a significant number of vacancy in the economy . we be determined that the Department for Work and Pensions will be reform to serve employer well , so that they can fill those vacancy . many disabled people in Ealing Southall be unnecessarily unemployed purely and simply because their employer refuse to respond to their request for the reasonable adjustment that they need to do their job . will the Minister consider strengthen the right to reasonable adjustment , so that worker receive a response within a specified number of week , in line with the recommendation in the groundbreaking disability employment charter ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . I know she meet my colleague the Minister for Social Security and Disability recently , and I be sure that their conversation be productive on this important point . I recognise what be behind the increase in the national minimum wage for 18 to 21 - year - old , but I have be surprise by the reaction of business in my constituency . those business have tell I , in term , that they will reduce the number of 18 to 21 - year - old they employ , because there be a high failure rate associate with their employment , as they be new to the workforce , yet employ they will cost the same as employ those who be old . do the Minister recognise that issue , and what will she do about it ? anybody who see that , in the british economy , there be nearly 1 million young people out of work or training — not do anything — would say that be a dreadful legacy leave by the previous Administration . that be why the youth guarantee be at the heart of our " get Britain work " plan . order . before I call Dr Jeevun Sandher , may I offer he my congratulation on his engagement ? that be incredibly kind of you , Mr Speaker . Young non - graduate be find it far hard to get good , well - pay job . the number of young people not in education , employment or training have nearly double since 2013 , and youth unemployment be at its high rate in almost a decade because young people be not get the skill they need . on top of that , they be become far sicker ; one in three young people currently have a mental health problem , and that figure be rise . what be the Government and the Department do to give young people the skill and the health support that they need to get good , well - pay job ? that question demonstrate the quality analysis I would expect from recently engage economist on the Labour Benches . the Minister for Skills and I have be work closely on the youth guarantee , because we know that it be only by college and jobcentre work in hand in hand that we will get young people the skill that they need to succeed . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the run - up to the election , Labour clearly commit to an employment rate target of 80 % , but in the past few week I have notice a shift in language from " target " to " ambition " . will the Minister clear this up for we : be the Government still commit to the 80 % employment target , or will that be another broken labour promise ? I make no apology for have ambition for people in our labour market . the figure be always an ambition , because Labour member want our jobcentre to shift away from pointless admin towards real ambition for everybody who step through the door . I think we all hear that loud and clear : Labour have ditch its employment target . that be already another broken labour promise . however , I feel for the Minister . how can she be expect to boost employment when her Chancellor be busy tax job and then shrink the economy ? the Government have destroy business confidence , have put up taxis on job , and be pile red tape on employer . which of those measure will help she to deliver that employment " ambition " ? I have bring forward proposal to get Britain work , together with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the Secretary of State for Education , and Secretaries of State right across Government . that be how we will plot a course towards our ambition of an 80 % employment rate . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for be kind enough to refer to our " get Britain work " plan as " rearrange the deckchair on the Titanic " . it be very brave of she to acknowledge that the last government ' s legacy for we be a sink ship . " get Britain work " White Paper what recent estimate she have make of the number of people who will be support into work through the proposal outline in the " get Britain work " White Paper . our ambition be an 80 % employment rate over a decade of national renewal . we will get Britain work by create a new job and career service in our overhaul of jobcentre . we will bring forward a new youth guarantee , so that every young person be earn or learn , and will give local area the power to join up work , health and skill support to help the 2 . 8 million people who be out of work due to long - term health condition . I thank my right hon . friend for her response , not least give the dire inheritance from the previous Government : the bad performance of an employment rate in the G7 since the pandemic . I see that inheritance in my community , in Barry in the Vale of Glamorgan , where individual carry not the indulgence , and not the offence , but the misfortune of ill health . what be the Secretary of State do to tackle economic inactivity , so that we give hope again , not just to those individual , but to my community ? in the Vale of Glamorgan , the economic inactivity rate be almost one in four people . that be high than the rate for Wales as a whole , and certainly high than the UK average . from spring next year , we will launch eight trailblazer to support more people with long - term health condition into work , include in Wales . that be back by £ 125 million of additional funding . we will design the programme jointly with the Welsh Government , and we aim to launch it in the spring . we be determined to boost job and growth in every corner of this great country . Fedcap , a national organisation , be run a scheme to get economically inactive people to become the next generation of solar panel engineer . More such scheme will be necessary to plug the skill gap that developer report , especially if the Government be to meet their ambitious housing target . will the Secretary of State commit to continue funding for scheme that be deliver by such organisation via jobcentre ? I congratulate organisation such as the one that the hon . Lady mention for their brilliant work , not only to keep energy cost down but to support people into work . I will work closely with the Minister for energy consumer , and other in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , to support those organisation , include through jobcentre . More job and low bill be key to improve people ' s living standard . in community like mine in East Thanet , there be above - average youth unemployment . it be important to be reassure that the " get Britain work " White Paper will be design to help young people , particularly in coastal community like mine , where we need a year - round economy , and support and activity to get young people into work . my hon . friend be exactly right : we have to deliver well job in every part of the country , include coastal community like hers . we need to give young people the skill that they need , and job opportunity , so that they can build a well life . I look forward to work with she as we deliver our youth guarantee and " get Britain work " plan . can the Secretary of State confirm whether she will maintain strong sanction against those who be capable of work but choose not to ? if you can work , you must work , and if you repeatedly refuse to , sanction will remain , but I know from young people in my constituency that they be desperate to get the skill and opportunity that they need . unlike the conservative party , that be what our youth guarantee will deliver . I call the shadow Minister . it be good to hear front - Benchers be so positive about their White Paper , much of which we be pretty familiar with . let we look through some of the measure . the integration of employment and health support — we be do that when we be in government . it be call WorkWell . my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) lead on it . what be the youth guarantee that we have be hear about ? accord to the White Paper , it " bring together a range of exist entitlement " . it be a very familiar set of policy . the fact be that the Government ' s White Paper be just a rehash of exist support , and a bit of money with no string attach . there be , however , one thing that the last Government be do that this Government be not : strengthen the conditionality for benefit . the Secretary of State say that she will continue the exist sanction , but what new measure will she introduce to ensure that people who can work will work ? I be not sure where to start . if the Conservatives ' programme be so successful , why do we have a record 2 . 8 million people out of work due to long - term health problem , and 1 million young people not in education , employment or training ? I love the 15 WorkWell pilot , but we want to join up health , work and skill support in every corner of the country , not just a few place . there will be a different approach for young people under our youth guarantee . there will be the opportunity people need , but also a requirement to take they up , not only for those on unemployment benefit , but for those young people who can work but be out of work due to a health condition . that be the difference a Labour Government make : there be work for those who can , and proper opportunity . I applaud that soundbite , but we do not hear about any new measure that will be introduce , or any additional sanction that we need . the right hon . member talk about what the last Government be do . we be reform the work capability assessment . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that our reform would have see 400 , 000 few people on long - term sickness benefit , save £ 5 . 4 billion over this Parliament . the Labour Government have pause that work while they hold a review . they have have 14 year . I do not know what they be do to plan for government — not very much , it look like . [ interruption . ] they have all that time . what be they do ? I do not know where their plan be . the Chancellor be count the saving to the welfare budget that our party would have deliver . will the Minister commit to implement the reform , and if not , how will she make the saving that she be count on ? the hon . member be laugh at his own chutzpah . I be happy to talk about the past 14 year , but the work capability assessment be not work . it need to be reform or replace . that be what we say in our manifesto , and we will bring forward our proposal in a Green Paper in the spring . that have to be part of a big programme to help people with long - term health condition and disability into work . that be what our " get Britain work " White Paper do , and I be happy to discuss it with he more in future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I hope the Secretary of State will join I in congratulate Chris McCausland and Dianne Buswell on their victory on " strictly " this weekend . in the light of that victory , how do she plan to make the access to work scheme more fit for purpose , so that it can help more people with disability reach their full potential ? I absolutely join in the hon . Gentleman ' s comment . it be a great joy to see that victory at the weekend . we want to see access to work work well . we want to get the backlog down , and for that support to be available to more people . Labour member believe that disabled people have the same right as anyone else to work , socialise and take part in life . that be what we be determined to achieve , not just through the Department for Work and Pensions , but through every part of Government . the hon . Gentleman will know that we recently announce lead Ministers for disability in every Department . that show how important we take this issue to be . inflation : Pensioner Living Standards what assessment she have make of the potential impact of trend in inflation on pensioner ' living standard . due to the Government ' s steadfast commitment to the triple lock , pensioner will see an above - inflation increase of 4 . 1 % in their state pension next year , which mean that they will be up to £ 470 well off — and , over the course of this Parliament , over £ 1 , 900 well off . I thank the Minister for the insight . in Mid Dunbartonshire , nearly a quarter of my constituent be of pension age . many have place their hard - earn income into private scheme , yet despite their financial planning , they face the harsh reality that inflation be outstrip the modest yearly increase to their pension , erode the value of their lifetime of saving . what step will she take to prevent the erosion in value of private pension , and to mitigate the problem of the growth in the value of pension fund not be pass on to pension holder ? the Chancellor launch a landmark pension review in July , which I be lead . it have two objective : to boost return for future pensioner , so that when they save into private pension , they get well return , the like of which we see in Australia and Canada ; and to boost investment in the UK economy . the poor pensioner in our society be those who be eligible for pension credit but do not claim it , and those who be just a few pound above the threshold and miss out on passporte support . Means - testing , by its very nature , be simply not the good way to get help to those who need it most , so will the Minister reconsider the recent decision to mean - test the winter fuel allowance ? we will not reconsider that decision , because as a result of the £ 22 billion black hole that we inherit from the conservative party , we have have to take tough decision in a very tight fiscal environment . however , my hon . friend have give I the opportunity to remind people that they have until Saturday to make a pension credit claim , which can be backdate and will passport they to winter fuel payment and other related benefit . I call Chris Murray . Edinburgh be a booming and — oh , sorry . question 4 . " get Britain work " White Paper : employer what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the " get Britain work " White Paper on employer and business . we have all be there , Mr Speaker . business be cry out for staff , yet only one in six employer use jobcentre . our " get Britain work " White Paper will revolutionise employment support to give employer the workforce they need . the support will include a new job and career service , design around employer ' need . we be also launch an independent review of the role of employer in promote healthy and inclusive workforce . some of we be still get our head around our new job , Mr Speaker . Edinburgh be a booming economy that have all the raw material to thrive in the year ahead — especially because we have some of the growth industry that the Government have identify as be key to the future of the economy . however , business in my constituency be cry out for worker with the skill that they need . what be the Government do to ensure that the workforce have the skill that business need ? my hon . friend describe exactly why we need a local tailor service : so that all employer can properly engage with jobcentre and work together to find the skilled member of staff that they need . I agree with he that Edinburgh offer so many opportunity to our young people . I know that all my DWP colleague in Edinburgh will work with he to get business the skilled staff that they need . E - commerce be a grow part of our economy . will the Minister spare a thought for small - scale employer in my constituency and throughout Northern Ireland , who . since Friday , have see their supply chain clobber by the imposition on Northern Ireland of the EU ' s general product safety regulation ? because of the extra paperwork and the need to pay an agent in Northern Ireland , many supplier in Great Britain be now refuse to sell to Northern Ireland . will this Government ever take step to reintegrate Northern Ireland into the internal market — order . we have to shorten question a little , so that I can get other in . I be not entirely sure that the issue the hon . and learn Gentleman raise be completely within my responsibility . however , DWP colleague in Northern Ireland work closely with business , and I be sure that they will continue to do so , whatever the prevail economic circumstance . Universal Credit what plan she have to review universal credit . we be commit to review universal credit to ensure that it be do the job that we need it to . we have start by announce the fair repayment rate in the Budget , and we will keep Parliament update . twenty - seven per cent of working - age people in Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley rely on universal credit . I welcome the fair repayment rate announce in the Budget , but a major reason for benefit debt be the design flaw in universal credit , which mean that claimant must wait five week for their first payment . will the Minister confirm that the five - week wait will be consider in the review of universal credit ? I can assure my hon . friend that advance of up to 100 % of potential universal credit entitlement be available urgently during the first assessment period of a claim , but she be right to raise concern about the five - week wait . I commend to she the excellent report on this subject publish by the Work and Pensions Committee in the last Parliament . the point she have raise be definitely one that we need to consider . some of the farmer who work so hard to put food on our table find it difficult to put food on the table themselves , and need additional Government support . that use to happen via tax credit , but the transition to universal credit have be hugely challenging for farmer , give the seasonal nature of their work . will the Minister meet I to hear some of their concern , so that we can incorporate those concern into the Government ' s review ? we be watch very carefully the progress of migration from tax credit to universal credit , which will be complete in the early part of next year , but I would be very happy to meet the hon . Lady and discuss some of the difficulty she be see . Poverty Reduction what step she be take to help reduce level of poverty . More people in good job be the foundation of our approach to tackle poverty . that be why we have set out the big reform to employment support in a generation , on top of extend the household support fund , introduce a fair repayment rate for universal credit , and the extensive work of the child poverty taskforce . in my constituency of Hemel Hempstead , accord to figure give to I by the local charity dens , there have be a 1 , 000 % increase in the number of people need to use food bank over the past 10 year . meanwhile , another institution , the Hemel Hempstead community fridge , see queue an hour before it open , in scene akin to something out of Soviet Russia . do the Minister agree that there be few more shameful example of the last government ' s record on poverty ? [ interruption . ] I can not quite hear the muttering of Conservative Members , Mr Speaker — I think the word they be look for be " sorry " . will the Minister also outline further step that we can take to reduce the need for food bank to exist at all ? the statistic my hon . friend have read out be , I be sorry to say , consistent with those of the Trussell Trust , which distribute 61 , 000 emergency food parcel in 2010 . last year , the figure be 3 . 1 million . that be not acceptable , which be why we have commit to triple investment in breakfast club to over £ 30 million and — as I have say — introduce our fair repayment rate for deduction from universal credit , because if a person be out of debt , they be out of danger . we be increase the national living wage to £ 12 . 21 an hour from next April , which will boost the pay of 3 million worker . that be also why the child poverty taskforce be work very hard . benefit such as pension credit and disability living allowance be important in assist people to stay out of poverty , but delay in processing application push people into poverty . one constituent of mine be an 82 - year - old gentleman who have spend more than 16 week wait for his application to be process , and another be the mother of a disabled child who have wait more than 18 week and be now be tell that it will take an extra 25 week for a mandatory reconsideration . what step be the Minister take to reduce delay in processing application for pension credit and other state support , in order to help lift household out of poverty ? I thank the hon . Lady for the question that she rightly put to this House . we have increase the number of staff work on pension credit by over 500 , and be work very quickly to deal with those backlog and delay . as she say , we need to get through those backlog . jobcentre : Outreach whether she have make an assessment of the potential merit of jobcentre launch outreach initiative in local community . jobcentre work with a range of external provider to offer a wealth of outreach support . in Berkshire , this include work coach support for customer with complex need deliver by read college , outreach deliver by the Slough homelessness team and at Windsor Homeless Project location , and employment support deliver by the probation hub in Reading . Outreach work be something that we not only strongly support , but actively encourage . the Minister have name a number of project in Berkshire , none of which fall within my constituency of Newbury . would he welcome community interest company such as Lambourn Junction host jobcentre in their facility to make sure that people in rural constituency such as mine have access to a jobcentre , rather than have to travel into the main town centre for that support ? I would very much welcome such an initiative be bring forward in the hon . member ' s constituency of Newbury . he may also be pleased to know that there be the potential for a youth hub to open in Newbury , similar to that in Oxford , which be grant fund and be already in operation . Pensions Auto - enrolment : low earner what assessment she have make of the adequacy of level of pension contribution for auto - enrol pension for low earner . due to the introduction of auto - enrolment , which be at least one policy that have cross - party support — it be legislate for by the last Labour Government and be take forward by the coalition Government — there have be a 92 % increase in the number of employee save into a workplace pension scheme since 2012 , which be over 10 million people save for a pension who be not save previously . the Minister will be aware that around 10 % of people automatically enrol into workplace pension scheme choose to opt out , often due to low pay and cost of living pressure , leave they lose out not only on build up their contribution , but on the top - up of their employer . would the Minister consider a simple tweak and allow employer contribution , which would have be due in any event , to continue in such opt - out circumstance ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , which be indeed an interesting idea . it be one that be put forward recently by the Institute for Fiscal Studies , and I will consider it . in the pension scheme Bill , which we will introduce next year , low earner with multiple small pot will have those pot consolidate , so that the money work well for they and give they a well retirement in the future . I thank the Minister very much for her answer . both party — the one now in opposition , and the one in government — have always encourage people to buy pension contribution in every way they can . however , the fact be that for many people who be low earner , it be not possible to have a pension scheme and at the same time to live , give the age we be in and the cost of living . what can the Minister do to encourage people to do so in a way that do not impact on the money they have come in ? I thank the hon . member for that question . a number of idea have be put forward by think - tank and research institutes . one such idea be a sidecar saving account , which could be use for a pension , but could also have some money set aside for a rainy day should somebody fall into debt . we be consider that . he raise a very important question , because some of those on low income sometimes can not afford to put in those contribution , but there may be a way between opt out and remain in the scheme , and we be look at that . refugee : Employment what step her Department be take to support people newly recognise as refugee into work . once people be grant refugee status , they have immediate access to DWP employment support and service . work coach work with refugee customer to understand their individual employment need and provide tailor support , as appropriate , include with CV writing , interview preparedness and help secure work experience . those who require more intensive support can be refer to DWP employment programme or other contract provision . the Government be seek to clear the very unacceptable backlog — the huge backlog — of asylum application they inherit from the previous Government . as a result , we be already begin to see an increase in the number of newly recognise refugee , who rightly now have the right to work and to contribute here . can the Minister say a bit more about the strategic planning and cross - departmental work that be happen on provide tailor support — he talk about tailor support , but the exist scheme of course come to an end in June — so that refugee who have every right to be here have the ability to take a job , pay taxis and contribute here ? the hon . member be entirely correct to recognise the important role of refugee in contribute to our economy . there be a range of tailor support available with thing such as language support and , as I mention early , with CV writing and interview preparedness , but there be also support with ensure that their qualification earn elsewhere be transferable to this country . I would of course be very happy to meet he to discuss far the support that could be put in place as we look , as he say , to clear the asylum backlog . we be in constant communication with the Home Office and other Departments to ensure that there be a holistic approach in do so . parental Leave : pay and allowance what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the adequacy of level of maternity and paternity pay and allowance . the Government keep the rate of parental pay under review . follow the Secretary of State ' s announcement in a write ministerial statement to Parliament on 30 October , and subject to parliamentary approval , parental pay will increase in line with the consumer price index at the rate of 1 . 7 % from April 2025 . at less than half the rate of a full - time national minimum wage , maternity and paternity pay be so low that most parent simply can not live on it , and they be often force into debt , or force back to work soon than they would like . a poll of father find that two - third of they would take more leave if paternity pay be high . if we want to give family choice in how they care for their child in those precious early month , will the Minister discuss with colleague in the Treasury and the Department for Business and Trade how we can boost rate of maternity and paternity pay ? I understand the point that the hon . Lady be make , but request for a significant uplifting of benefit come with a price tag and I hear no suggestion as to how that would be pay for . on support for parent , the Government commit in their manifesto to review parental leave to ensure that it well support work family . further detail of that review will be announce in due course . recent damn statistic highlight that just 2 % of parent make use of share parental leave in the past year , with uptake skewed towards the high earner . give the importance of break down barrier to equal parenting for employment , will the Minister ensure that he work with the Department for Business and Trade as part of the upcoming review to ensure that enhanced parental leave be consider , include strengthen paternity leave entitlement ? my hon . friend be correct to highlight not just the importance and benefit of share parental leave , but the disparity between those who make use of it . I will , of course , maintain dialogue with the Department for Business and Trade as we go through that review , but I would also welcome a discussion with my hon . friend about his ambition and idea for how we could take that forward . Universal Credit what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the rate of universal credit . no assessment along the line that the hon . Gentleman ask about have be make . benefit rate be review each year , increase by 6 . 7 % last April and by 1 . 7 % from next April , in line with inflation . I thank the Minister for his answer , but I would like to focus on the age differential in the rate . he will be aware that people under 25 receive a different rate of universal credit . the Government announce that they will try to abolish the age differential for the national living wage . if it could also be abolish for universal credit , that would be really good for young care leaver . will the Minister look at potentially phase out the age differential in universal credit ? the hon . Gentleman make an interesting suggestion . that be not something I be consider at the moment , but as he will have hear I say early , we will be review universal credit over the course of the next year or so . we certainly want to support young care leaver — he will know of the recent announcement that we make about change to carer ' s allowance — and we be keep all those matter under review . Youth Guarantee what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the youth guarantee on young people in Harlow constituency . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the youth guarantee on young people in Derby North constituency . our new youth guarantee will ensure that every young person be earn or learn , tackle the scandal that we inherit of almost 1 million young people not in education , employment or training . young people in Harlow , Derby North and across the country deserve the opportunity to work , get skill and build a well life , and that be what this Labour Government will deliver . in my constituency of Harlow , lot of fantastic organisation provide transferable skill for young people , and I thank the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) for remind I of the name Jason shave , who be an incredible champion for that kind of work . do the Secretary of State agree that give local area such as Harlow the flexibility , power and funding to engage with young people in the way that good work for they will get they back into employment quick ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . that be why we be go to give new power , responsibility and funding to local area to deliver our youth guarantee . they know their community well . they know the voluntary organisation , school , training provider and business , and the mental health and other support that many young people need . in Harlow , I know that that approach will be key to give young people the opportunity that my hon . friend want and that they deserve . Mel be out of work and homeless , but YMCA derbyshire see only her potential , not her disadvantage . now , she be at Toyota and on track for a leadership role . its work asset programme have a 70 % success rate in support homeless young people into employment . how will the youth guarantee help the Government join up with , enhance and champion local programme like that ? that sound like a fantastic programme by the YMCA in my hon . friend ' s constituency . that be precisely why we need to join up with what local college be do , with the support provide by local council and with support employment programme run by the NHS . if we join that up and base it on local need , her young constituent and many other like she will get the chance they need and deserve to build a well life . Ill Health and Disability Benefits what step she be take to reform the health and disability benefit system . we want to reform the system to do a much well job in help people to enter and stay in work . we will publish a Green Paper next spring and we will be discuss our proposal with disabled people . to protect those in need and to deliver for taxpayer , we need to take tough decision . reform health and disability benefit will require Ministers to make difficult choice , but so far the plan rely on reduce NHS waiting list , which the Office for Budget Responsibility have say will have hardly any effect on economic activity . be Ministers willing to make unpopular decision to solve this issue and , if so , when ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we will make the right decision , and they will be set out in our Green Paper in the spring . there be a need to reform the health and disability benefit system — there be no question about that — and we want to talk to disabled people themselves about the detail , in order to make sure that we get it right . " get Britain work " White Paper : long - term Health Conditions what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the " get Britain work " White Paper on people with a long - term health condition or disability . disabled people and people with long - term health condition deserve the same right as everybody else , include the right to work . many of the 2 . 8 million people out of work due to long - term sickness say that they want to work , if they can get the right help and support . that be what our " get Britain Working " plan will deliver . a core objective of the " get Britain work " White Paper be to support disabled people into employment . as the Secretary of State know , the blue badge scheme be an important provision in enable people to get to work , but datum release this month show a sharp rise in blue badge theft , with badge be sell on by criminal for upwards of £ 500 to people who use they to avoid parking charge . will the Minister back my campaign to tackle this injustice ? yes , I think it be disgusting that some people think it be all right to steal the blue badge that so many disabled people rely on to work , but also to socialise and to see family and friend . I know that the Minister for Future of Roads , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , who be responsible for this issue , be a strong supporter of the campaign by my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) . I will contact she to stress my support and that of my entire Department . the " get Britain work " White Paper rightly say that " people deserve the opportunity to thrive and that sport , art and culture be crucial to achieve this goal " , especially for those with disability . the Sovereign centre in Eastbourne , where I learn to swim , provide vital sport and leisure opportunity that will help serve that aim . with the future of two of its pool be consider , do the Minister agree that to well honour the aim of the White Paper , Eastbourne borough council should engage with all interested provider who may be able to protect our fun and training pool at the centre before make any final decision on the next step ? order . I be not sure that be a relevant question , as well as the hon . member shoehorn it in . Secretary of State , do you want to answer ? it be up to you . I believe that sport , as well as art and culture , can play a huge role in engage and inspiring people , help they on the pathway to skill , confidence and job . I want to see that provision enhance in future , because we be determined to have that at the national partnership level , and it need to happen locally , too , to get people work and earn again . low - pay work what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help reduce the number of people in low - pay work . our plan to get Britain work be crucial to tackle low pay and increase living standard in every corner of the country . when only one in six people ever fully escape low pay , the Labour party believe that be not good enough , so our new job and career service , back by £ 55 million of additional funding next year , will kick - start our reform to help more people get work and get on in their work so that they boost their living standard , too . average wage in my constituency of Crewe and Nantwich — a place with a proud industrial heritage — lag behind the regional and national average at just £ 686 a week before tax . will the Secretary of State outline how the " get Britain work " White Paper will support growth as well as high - skilled , well - pay job in my constituency , not just the big city ? the Government share my hon . friend ' s determination to boost the living standard of his constituent , so the " get Britain work " White Paper will ensure that every local area — include in his constituency — produce its own get Britain working plan . alongside our industrial strategy , our plan to make work pay , the national wealth fund and Skills England , that will help people to get work and progress in their career , with good opportunity for employment right across the country . Winter Fuel Payment : Pensioner Poverty what assessment she have make of the potential impact of means - test the winter fuel payment on level of pensioner poverty . under the last Conservative Government , an estimate 880 , 000 of the poor pensioner eligible for pension credit be not claim it . we have launch the big ever pension credit awareness campaign and write to 120 , 000 pensioner on housing benefit , urge they to apply . as a result , claim for pension credit have more than double , and those who receive pension credit will also receive winter fuel payment and other related benefit . before the last general election , the Labour party suggest that removal of the winter fuel payment would mean an extra 4 , 000 pensioner a year die , freeze in poverty . how many will die under the Government ' s policy this year ? the Government remain absolutely committed to support low - income pensioner . we be support they through the household support fund , which local authority can use to help people on the low income with their bill . the Minister for Energy Consumers , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , have also raise £ 500 million from energy supplier to help those most vulnerable consumer in debt . we also have the warm home discount and the warm home plan to help those on low income to heat their home . under the Conservatives , billion in pension credit go unclaimed . the burden for drive up claim often lie in fantastic organisation such as Christians Against Poverty , the Falkirk and Clackmannanshire Carers Centre and Citizens Advice Falkirk and Denny , as well as the brilliant Falkirk council welfare benefit team in my constituency . what assurance can the Minister give I that beyond 21 December her Department will work tirelessly to prevent billion in benefit from be leave unclaimed ? indeed , we have take forward the big awareness campaign for claim pension credit that have ever be see . we be determined that those on the low income should claim pension credit and be award it , which will passport they to winter fuel payment and other related benefit . the Scottish Government be bring back the winter fuel payment because we be aware what an awful disaster this have be for the Labour Government . People be terrify to switch on their heating . will the Minister please explain to pensioner live in poverty circumstance but not eligible for pension credit what they should do this winter ? should they just wear an extra blanket ? the Scottish Government have be give a record settlement in the recent Budget . as the hon . member know , winter fuel payment and other benefit be devolve to the Scottish Government . I thank the resident of York for donate to my thermal collection on Saturday , but I know that old people in the city of York will really struggle this winter . will the Minister say how many people across the country have sign up to pension credit since July and what additional step will be take to ensure that those who miss the 21 December deadline will still be able to get support to keep warm this winter ? claim have more than double — they have increase by 145 % since late July — and we be work at pace to process those claim . we have deploy an additional 500 staff to ensure that those on the low income get the pension credit that they need . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . as a lifelong champion of family carer , deal with the problem of carer ' s allowance overpayment be a priority for I and for my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability . last week we set out the next step in our independent review lead by Liz Sayce , the former chief executive of Disability Rights UK . it will report by the summer and will look at how and why overpayment be build up , the change we can make for the future and how good to help those affect . along with the big ever cash boost to the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance announce in the Budget , it show our determination to give family carer the support they need and deserve . in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton more than 23 , 000 people have lose their winter fuel allowance — more than 90 % of former claimant . do the Secretary of State think that it be fair that someone who have pay tax all their work life will now be tax on their state pension as well as lose their winter fuel allowance ? the hon . Lady talk about the winter fuel payment , but she fail to mention our determination to ensure that the 880 , 000 pensioner who do not claim pension credit , but be eligible , claim it so that they can get their winter fuel payment . the £ 4 . 9 million allocate from the household support fund to West Sussex , which cover her constituency , can be use precisely for those pensioner just above the pension credit threshold who have work hard all their life but need extra support with the cost of heating . I welcome the review into the overpayment of carer ' s allowance , which will come as a huge relief to many people in East Worthing and Shoreham . can the Minister confirm that the Department will do everything it can to prevent family carer unnecessarily get into debt ? yes , I can confirm that . we place a very high value on the contribution of family carer . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say , the Budget announcement on the carer ' s allowance earn threshold will help avert inadvertent overpayment , and will make an additional 60 , 000 carer eligible for carer ' s allowance . we be determined to do everything we can . I call the shadow Secretary of State . how many people who should get the winter fuel payment will get it this winter ? we intend to ensure that everybody who be entitle to pension credit , and therefore the winter fuel payment , claim it and get it . we have see a 145 % increase in claim — far more than be ever achieve under the last Government . if the hon . Lady be so concerned about that , perhaps she should have take action during her party ' s 14 year in government . unfortunately , the right hon . Lady simply will not give a straight answer . she will not tell the House what she know ; she know that the Government ' s choice would push 100 , 000 pensioner into poverty and she do not tell the House that , either . let we try this question instead . the Government ' s own figure show that pensioner apply now will have to wait until the spring to find out whether they will get winter fuel money . what be her advice to a pensioner sit in the cold and wonder if they can afford to turn on their heating this Christmas ? if the hon . Lady care so much about pensioner in the cold , why do her Government leave 880 , 000 not claim pension credit ? why do they first promise to bring together housing benefit and pension credit in 2011 and never deliver it ? this government be take action — 42 , 500 more people be receive pension credit now than when she leave government . we be determined to act ; perhaps she should apologise for her failure . many of my more senior constituent be concerned about their finance and winter fuel payment , especially those just above the threshold . in Slough , 1 , 688 household be currently eligible for pension credit but not claim this vital benefit , so what step be the Department take to increase the uptake and ensure that those who be not eligible be not leave out in the cold ? I place on record my thank to the 160 local authority that have work with the Department for Work and Pensions to raise awareness of apply for pension credit , and also to the various charity around the country that have work with we . the number of people claim pension credit have double — a record number — and we be process those claim at pace . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . a report by the National Audit Office last week highlight how cliff edge in the care allowance system have result in 136 , 000 people owe £ 250 million . in the light of that , will the Minister ensure that we stop this injustice and stop the demand until a fair system be introduce ? I welcome the NAO report , which I ask for last May , when I be Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . we be determined to address the problem of carer ' s allowance overpayment . the cliff edge could be deal with through the introduction of a taper instead of the current arrangement , as the Chancellor mention in her Budget speech in the autumn . if we do that , it will not happen quickly , because it will be quite a major project , but it be something that we be look at closely . my constituent Gary have see his real - term income fall because the pension he build up before 1997 in a define - benefit scheme be not subject to indexation , even though 80 % of define - benefit scheme be in surplus . will my right hon . friend ask the Pensions Regulator to look at this issue ? I thank my hon . friend for represent the concern of his constituent . the Department be work closely with the Pensions Regulator . we be look to gather information on the number of scheme that provide discretionary increase on pre - 1997 benefit and those that do not . at the moment , the trustee of those scheme have discretion over the decision to index those benefit . over the weekend , James Reed , the chief executive of one of the UK ' s large recruiter , say that job vacancy be down 26 % compare with the same period last year , which should be a red - light warning that high unemployment and recession be just around the corner . will the Secretary of State plead with the Chancellor to reverse the job national insurance tax raid that be devastating employment figure before that warning become a reality ? we still have more than 800 , 000 vacancy in this economy , and business be cry out for staff . that be why , through our reform programme , we be determined that the DWP will serve business well . I look forward to work with member across the House to make that happen . on Friday , my constituent Andrew Price and Matthew Whitmore come to my surgery to share their anger and distress at their pension be steal by a so - call investment company . they be thousand of pound out of pocket . will the Pensions Minister say what protection be in place against this , and will she meet I to discuss how my constituent can get their money back ? there be unfortunately many such case in which people be prey on by scammer . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the case far . why do the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that the Budget would cost 50 , 000 job ? I refer the right hon . Gentleman to the OBR report that say that overall , employment will go up . how do the Secretary of State envision the future of jobcentre in my constituency and across Scotland , and what role will technology play in that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight that any reform to our jobcentre must come with digital transformation . we be currently explore scheme such as a " Jobcentre in your pocket " app , as well as look for way in which jobseeker can self - serve in term of meet the condition of their conditionality regime . on 4 December , my hon . friend the Member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) ask the Prime Minister about the WASPI — Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — woman , and be tell that the Government be work " at pace " . since then , 1 , 400 or 1 , 500 more woman have die without justice or compensation . will the Minister tell we what work " at pace " mean and give we a timeline ? I be the first Minister for eight year to meet the WASPI campaigner to listen to their concern . the ombudsman take six year to investigate six case . we be work at pace on this issue . we hope to come to the House soon — if the hon . Gentleman will listen to my answer — to update he and the public on what we will do next . young people in support housing , include in my constituency , effectively pay a marginal rate of tax of 55 % on their universal credit when they start work , mean that earning of just £ 133 a week see their housing benefit taper to nil . that mean that work do not pay . will the Minister look at the economic benefit of reduce that taper and increase the applicable amount , ensure that work do pay and improve housing security ? my hon . friend raise a very important point . there be a problem in the interaction between the universal credit taper rate and the housing benefit taper for people in support and temporary accommodation . we be , at the moment , look at option for how to tackle that quite serious work disincentive problem . this Christmas , over one in four child in this country will be live in poverty . that could be partly address by scrap the two - child benefit cap and pay for simply by reverse the Tory tax cut on the bank . what be more important : hungry child or banker ’ bonus ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise the condition of child live in poverty in this country . that be why , as I mention early , the child poverty taskforce be do extensive work on the issue . accord to the 2022 Migration Observatory report , over 200 , 000 child be likely to be in family with no recourse to public fund . as the 2022 Work and Pensions Committee report highlight , those family face particularly tough circumstance without access to benefit . will the Minister confirm whether the child poverty taskforce be engage directly with affected family to understand the challenge they face ? the child poverty taskforce be consider all child across the UK in all aspect of our child poverty strategy . we recognise the distinct challenge of poverty face by child in particular group , such as migrant child , disabled child and other . we be engage directly with family affect by poverty . we recognise that the cause of child poverty be deep rooted and we will look at all lever to make change . in Epsom and Ewell , local charity such as the Sunnybank Trust be see a lack of employment opportunity for people with learn disability . in fact , only 6 . 9 % of people with learning disability be currently in pay work . what measure be the DWP take to support employer to help individual with learn disability to get into work ? the hon . member raise a very important point . she will probably be aware of the Buckland review , publish before the election , which look specifically at employment support for people with autism . the Minister for Employment and I meet Sir Robert Buckland recently , and we be look at how we can take forward the idea he propose in his report . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . a recently publish freedom of information request indicate that AI tool use to detect DWP fraud be biased and disproportionately discriminate against people by age , disability , marital status and nationality . obviously , that have cause considerable concern . what assurance can the Minister give that the procurement and use of such tool will be cover by strict governance standard , include test for fairness ? my hon . friend will know that we face a significant challenge , with fraud and error cost the Department almost £ 10 billion a year . it be right that we look to utilise all available tool to tackle it . however , I understand her concern , although I would remind she that the final decision on whether someone receive a welfare payment be always make by a human . that be the most robust safeguard that we can have in place — although of course it sit alongside a broad suite . my inspirational constituent , Bells Lewers , have terminal bowel cancer . when she be first undergo treatment , she be initially turn down for personal independence payment , despite the significant impact on her ability to work and carry out basic daily activity . have the Minister consider incorporate clinical diagnosis alongside function in eligibility assessment , and will he meet bell to discuss the assessment process ? we do keep the assessment process under review , but I would be happy to look at the detail of this particular case and perhaps meet the hon . Lady and her constituent , if that would be helpful . an astonishing £ 35 billion have be lose to benefit fraud and error since the pandemic . will the Minister outline the plan and the timeline for recoup that money ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the enormous cost to the Department — upwards of £ 35 billion — of fraud since the pandemic . she will be pleased to know that the fraud , error and debt Bill be due to come to the House early in the new year . this government be serious about tackle fraud ; it be just a shame that we inherit the mess we do . United Front Work Department Order . before I call the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , I will make a short statement . the House of Commons respect the jurisdiction of the court — for example , in our sub judice rule . the sub judice rule apply to all criminal case , include case involve espionage , which be currently before court . it be important that nothing we say should prejudice a fair trial before a jury . the sub judice rule also apply to the majority of civil case , but it do not apply when a ministerial decision be in question , such as the decision in this case by the Home Secretary to exclude the person know as H6 from the UK on the basis that his exclusion be conducive to the public good on ground of national security . I understand that this afternoon the administrative court decide to lift the anonymity order . the Government be responsible to this House , which hold Ministers accountable for what be do on their authority . although it be important that member should be able to question Ministers , I remind they of the rule set out in paragraph 21 . 20 and 21 . 23 of " Erskine May " that it be only in order to criticise the conduct of a member of the royal family when debate a substantive motion draw up in proper term , which be not the case in this urgent question . I hope that the House now have a feel for the way in which we will debate this subject . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the government if they will make a statement on the extent of the operation of the United Front Work Department within the UK . the first duty of any Government be national security , and we therefore welcome the court ' s decision to uphold the Home Office ' s position with regard to the exclusion of H6 , who can now be name as Yang Tengbo . the Special Immigration Appeals Commission conclude that there be a " basis for the conclusion " that H6 " have be in a position to generate relationship with prominent UK figure which could be leverage for political interference purpose by the CCP ( include the UFWD ) or the Chinese State . " where there be individual who pose a threat to our national security , we be absolutely committed to use the full range of power available to disrupt they . when we encounter foreign interference or espionage , whether it stem from the United Front Work Department or from any other state - link actor , we will be swift in use all available tool , include prosecution , exclusion , sanction and diplomacy , to keep our country safe . give the potential for further litigation , it would be inappropriate for I to say any more , but it be important to recognise that this case do not exist in a vacuum . as the director general of MI5 make clear in October , we be in the most complex threat environment that he have ever see . alongside the threat from terrorism , we face ongoing effort by a number of state , include China , Russia and Iran , to harm the UK ' s security . our response be among the most robust and sophisticated anywhere in the world . the National Security Act 2023 , which be support by member on both side of the House and which strengthen our power to protect the UK , be central to our protection against state that seek to conduct hostile act . to date , six individual have be charge under the new Act , and the Government have be work hard on the roll - out of a crucial part of it : the foreign influence registration scheme , or FIRS . we will say more about that soon , but we intend to lay regulation in the new year and commence the scheme in the summer . the Government have also set out our approach to China , which will be consistent and strategic . we will challenge where we must in order to keep our country safe , compete where we need to , and co - operate where we can — for example , on matter such as climate change . that be act in the national interest , as the Prime Minister reiterate early today . however , the threat we face from foreign state be pernicious and complex . the work of our intelligence agency be unrivalle in mitigate they , and I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to they for the amazing work that they do to keep our country safe . today , as ever , they will be pursue those who wish to do we harm , include those from foreign state . we support our intelligence agency in their effort , and we always will — and they will know that at any point when the UK ' s national security be at risk , we will not hesitate to use every tool at our disposal to keep our country safe . I want to put two thing on the record . first , it would have be easy for the Government to come to the House with a statement ; obviously , there be more to say than we have allocate time for . secondly , I say to Sir Iain : please do not tell the medium what you be go to do and how you be go to do it , and do not try to bounce the Chair into make a decision . if anybody else have put in for an urgent question , I would have give it to they — on the basis that I be not dance to the tune of the medium . it would be helpful if the Government come forward with statement , rather than be drag to the Dispatch Box . hopefully , we can all learn from this , and here be a good example of how that will be do : I call Sir Iain Duncan Smith . Mr Speaker , I apologise if that be the case . Yang Tengbo — H6 — be , in fact , not a lone wolf . he be one of some 40 , 000 member of the United Front Work Department , which , as the Government know , the Intelligence and Security Committee report last year say have penetrate " every sector " of the UK economy , include by spy , steal intellectual property , influence , and shape our institution . our agent say they be now frustrate by the lack of action , but they do not seem to have the tool they need to deal with the issue . one of those tool be stare we in the face . will the Government commit to put China in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , and will they do it now ? there be no need for delay . the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China , or IPAC , find that H6 — Yang Tengbo — be already well know as a United Front member , and that he be know to other who be already deep in the political establishment . parliamentarian be expose to the United Front on a regular basis . will the Minister remedy this today , and accept that China be our most prominent security threat and that all action must take priority ? my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , who be the previous Security Minister , have say publicly that the Home Office be ready to name China in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , which would have force United Front member like H6 to register or face serious consequence . give that do so be an available option , why have we not do it yet ? be it true , as be be report by paper , include the Times , that behind the scene the Government be now under pressure from bank , the wide business community and Government Departments not to do it ? when it come to a member of the royal family , I simply say this : how be it that somebody who be know to the security force be allow to get so close to a member of the royal family without proper scrutiny expose they ? finally , I note that the Prime Minister say today in response to the issue that we will " co - operate where we can " , particularly on environmental issue , and " challenge where we must " , particularly on human right issue . if the Prime Minister mean that , why be we still buy from China huge number of solar array that have demonstrably be make use slave labour ? surely his statement be clearly incorrect ; far from challenge China on human right , it now appear that we be turn a blind eye . why be that ? let I first come to the point the right hon . Gentleman make about FIRS . upon our arrival in government , we find that FIRS be not ready to be implement , as have be claim . since come into office , we have ensure that more people than ever be now work on FIRS implementation , and the case management team have be recruit and be now in place . as I say in my opening remark , we plan to lay the regulation that underpin the scheme in the new year , ahead of the scheme go live in the summer . as we have previously commit , we will provide three month ' notice of the scheme ' s go - live date to give all those who will be affect by it adequate time to prepare . the scheme will be underpin by an it solution consist of a registration platform , a case management system and an online public register . the IT programme develop under the previous Government be not ready for the scheme to go live , and plan be not sufficiently robust . this Government have progress at pace with the work to ensure that we be in a position to launch FIRS , with the laying of the regulation in the new year with a view to the scheme go live in the summer . work be also under way to identify which foreign power will be place on the enhance tier . that will be base on robust security and intelligence analysis . the Home Secretary and I plan to begin set out the Government ' s approach for the use of the enhance tier in due course . the first duty of Government be national security , and the threat that the country face be the most complex and evolve we have ever see . give the range of threat we face from hostile state actor , it be important that the Government take action to protect our critical national infrastructure from cyber - attack and ransomware attack . can the Minister update we on the plan announce in the King ' s Speech for a new Bill on cyber - resilience and other action to improve protection in this area ? my hon . friend make an important point . we be work at pace with colleague across Government , include in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , to progress these matter . there be a lot of work go on across Government to ensure that we be as resilient as we can possibly be to the threat we face from a range of actor . he can be assure , as can the House , that this Government will use all necessary measure to protect our security and ensure that our critical national infrastructure be as resilient as it possibly can be . I call the shadow Secretary of State . can I start by thank the Security Minister and the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for the security briefing they arrange early today for the shadow Foreign Secretary and myself ? we be grateful for the assistance . chinese infiltration of public organisation be of grave concern , but this be not just about public organisation such as the Government ; business and university be also be systemically infiltrate , and intellectual property theft be often at the heart of what the chinese Government be try to achieve . when I be Technology Minister , I see this in area such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing , and I would like to hear the Security Minister say more about intellectual property theft of cut - edge technology in a moment . last year the head of MI5 , Ken McCallum , say that chinese activity seek to infiltrate our institution be take place on an " epic scale " . last year there be multiple attempt by chinese company to get hold of sensitive technology , and MI5 estimate that 20 , 000 individual have be approach by chinese agent who be try to influence they , or forge contact in some way . it be likely that at some point , either in the past or in the future , an attempt to contact every Member of this House will be make in one form or another . the opposition will fully support the Government in work to secure our nation ' s safety , and I will ask the Minister one or two question in that spirit . first , would he consider expedite the implementation of the foreign influence registration scheme that he refer to ? I echo the suggestion from my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) that China should be place in the enhance tier of that scheme . secondly , will the Security Minister review the wisdom of the Government ' s approach to China ? give what we have learn and what we now know , the very close relation that the Prime Minister be apparently attempt , and the rather sycophantic tone he take with President Xi at the G20 a few week ago , may not be very wise . chinese infiltration and intellectual property theft be of very grave concern , and I would welcome some further comment from the Security Minister as to what he will do to combat they . first , we be pleased to offer that briefing because these be important matter that should not divide we . it will always be this Government ' s approach that , where we can work co - operatively with all member of this House on matter relate to national security , we will seek to do so . the right hon . Gentleman make some important point about matter relate to business , high education and university . he be a former Technology Minister , so I know he speak with authority and expertise on matter relate to intellectual property theft , and this be an important point for he to make . I share his concern . it be completely unacceptable that any entity , whether they be a hostile state or otherwise , should seek to draw intellectual property out of our country , and this Government take the matter very seriously . the right hon . Gentleman mention the comment of the director general of MI5 , Ken McCallum , and I would say to he that the National Security and Investment Act 2021 provide a framework for this Government , as it do for the previous Government , when deal with some of these matter . the right hon . Gentleman ask about FIRS , and I hope I have be able to provide some reassurance on the Government ' s intention to table the regulation as soon as practically possible in the new year , with a view to have the scheme up and run by the summer . on the approach to China , I do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the Prime Minister ' s recent meeting . I would just say very gently to he that at least the Prime Minister do not take President Xi to the pub for a pint . will the broad China audit include an assessment of the number of chinese Communist party operative work in the UK , include through body such as the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office ? and will the Minister ensure that everyone target , whether they be member of this place , member of the royal family or member of the public with british national overseas status who be originally from Hong Kong , have access to tailor security support ? we be work with other Departments to carry out an audit of the UK ' s relationship with China . this be be do to improve our ability to understand and respond to both the challenge and the opportunity that China pose . it be vital that we have a thorough understanding of the bilateral relationship with China , include where we need to challenge to protect the UK ' s national security . the audit be ongoing , and its outcome will guide a consistent and coherent approach to China . british national overseas status be a matter that I know my hon . friend have rightly pursue for a significant amount of time . this reflect the UK ' s historical and moral commitment to those people of Hong Kong who choose to retain their tie to the UK by take up BNO status at the point of Hong Kong ' s handover to China in 1997 . BNO status holder and their family be make significant contribution to our economy and local community . from the route ' s introduction on 31 January 2021 to the end of September 2024 , more than 215 , 000 visa be grant . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure this urgent question on a crucial issue for all of we in this place , because we be look for robust action from this Government to keep our politic and democracy safe from the influence of foreign government . we should not pretend for a moment that the case of H6 be in any way unique or unusual because , as we have hear , the director general of MI5 , Ken McCallum , have warn that body like the UFWD be " mount patient , well - fund , deceptive campaign to buy and exert influence . " we see it in our business world , and we see it in our university . we have the chinese consulate in my Edinburgh West constituency , and I have , on more than one occasion , be personally chastise by the consul for express my view about Uyghur Muslims or for speak up for Hong Kong resident in this country , so it be a serious problem . in fact , I be once film by a mysterious drone while speak at a Hong Kong protest . we need robust action to clamp down on thing like the police station that we have hear exist in this country . the Government say they be seek close relationship with China , so how can the Minister reassure we that they will not weaken their stance or robustness against chinese influence in this country , or on human right and democracy in Taiwan and Hong Kong ? how will they protect we all from China ' s insidious approach ? I can assure the hon . Lady that this Government be , and will be , take the robust action require to combat the nature of the threat that she rightly characterise . she be right to say that the particular circumstance of the case we be discuss today be not unique . the Government be work with the intelligence agency and partner to combat a much wide threat on matter relate to China , she will understand that the Government have to weigh a number of consideration . while national security will always be our primary responsibility and the thing we take most seriously , there be , as there would have be for the previous Government , a requirement to look for area where we can co - operate . in truth , we have to balance that relationship , but I can give she an assurance that we will take the robust action require , include through the defend democracy taskforce , which be a useful mechanism that we use across Government to look more closely at these matter . member from across the House be right to raise concern about the security threat and attempt to undermine or infiltrate our institution that we face from China . on behalf of all member of the House , will the Minister pass on our thank to all those who work in the security service for their vital work ? Most of we will never know or see that work , but it be constantly protect we from those threat . I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that point . by necessity , the work that our intelligence service do be in the shadow , but since come into this role a number of month ago , I have be extremely impressed by the professionalism and dedication of those man and woman who work incredibly hard to keep our country safe . we all , across the House and the country , owe they a debt of gratitude , and I will ensure that be pass on . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . may I urge the Minister to introduce the FIRS scheme as soon as possible and commence it at the early possible opportunity ? what step have the Home Office take to ensure the propose new chinese embassy , at the Royal Mint site , have proper oversight , so that we do not allow it to become a new base for spy ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee for her question ; I know the Home Secretary be look forward to appear in front of the Committee tomorrow . on the embassy , as the right hon . Lady will know , the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government have call in the application , in line with current planning policy . the planning decision sit solely with the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government — the Deputy Prime Minister . as the right hon . Lady will understand , I be unable to say anything more about that , but a final decision will be make in due course . the right hon . Lady also ask about FIRS . I can give she an assurance that we be progress it at pace , and it be the Government ' s strong intention to introduce it as soon as practically possible . to that end , we intend to lay the regulation as soon as possible in the new year . the shadow Home Secretary refer to " sycophancy " towards the Chinese , but I think that charge be well direct at member of his own party . it be less than five year since Theresa May go to Beijing , where she be praise by the state medium ; I know that because I be on that trip , in a former career . she be praise for " sidestep " human right issue in the furtherance of the wide necessity of the trip . do the Minister agree that that be not the right approach to the Chinese ? I agree that be not the right approach ; the current Government ' s approach be the right one . I have lay out the strategic approach we intend to adopt with China . we have to be clear head about the nature of the threat we face , but we also have to look for area where we can co - operate as well . last year , as Home Secretary , I make the decision to exclude Yang Tengbo from the UK because his presence pose a threat to our national security . that decision be base on the advice of MI5 , and I be very pleased that the High Court have uphold that decision . I say gently to the Minister that it be regrettable that it have take a high - profile case , public outcry and opposition mp drag the Minister to the Chamber to finally get the Government to commit to implement the foreign influence registration scheme — a scheme that we enact and that be ready to go at the time of the general election . if the Government be really serious about tackle the unprecedented threat pose by China — malicious cyber - attack , transnational repression , the Confucius institutes , chinese police station , and of course human right abuse against the Uyghur Muslims — when will they list China on the enhance tier ? I be not go to make this point , but give the way in which the right hon . and learn Lady have make hers , I will gently point out that the previous Government have a significant period from the passing of the National — indicate dissent . the right hon . and learn Lady shake her head . it be a statement of fact that the previous Government have a significant amount of time — many month — from the passing of the National Security Act 2023 , during which they could have choose to implement FIRS . they do not implement FIRS . it now fall to this Government to do so , and that be precisely what we will do . it be disappointing that some Opposition Members be try to turn what should be a moment of collective unity in the face of a share security threat into a political row . do the Security Minister agree that it be pretty incredible for the party whose Defence Secretary be sack for leak vital intelligence about the Huawei 5 G contract now to pose as the protector of our national security ? I agree . this Government ' s approach will always be to work constructively across the House on matter relate to national security , but give the record of certain right hon . and hon . opposition Members , I suggest that humility might be the order of the day for some of they . I do not want to go over the readiness of FIRS again and again . I will leave it at this : I be assure by the same official who sit in the Box advise the Minister that it would be ready to go by the end of the year . clearly the advice have change . only one thing in the Department have change , which be the party lead it , so I can only assume that there have be a change of intent , but I be delighted that it will be ready to go by the summer — well late than never . the real question , of course , be whether it will be worth have . the advice from MI5 be very clear : if China be not in the enhance tier , it will not be worth have . will China be in that tier ? the right hon . Gentleman know that I take these matter incredibly seriously . he and I have know each other for a very long time . I therefore know that he will take on trust my assertion to he and to the House that the scheme be not ready to go when we arrive in government in July this year . we be work at pace . I have today give the House a timeframe and say that we be look very closely , work with colleague across Government , at how we can well structure the scheme . we will make announcement in the normal way in due course . one weak point in protect our parliamentary democracy from hostile state actor be money in politic . do the Security Minister agree that this late case show that it be a priority to ensure that our electoral law be robust enough that only fund that be clean and source entirely from within the UK fund our political party , because there certainly seem to be some confusion among some of the party in opposition ? my hon . friend make an important point , and speak with great authority on this matter . he will know that we have just appoint Baroness Hodge as the Government ' s new anti - corruption champion . she will support the work that we do , look very carefully at the impact of dirty money on politic . he be right that the Government will want to assure ourselves that the electoral law that govern the conduct of election be robust , and ensure that there be no opportunity for people from overseas to intervene in our political process . that advice should be take very seriously by all party across the House . in my constituency there be many hongkonger deeply concerned about surveillance from chinese agent in this country . can the Minister give my constituent any assurance that their legitimate fear be be address by the Government ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise the plight of his constituent . yes , I can give he those assurance . the Government take very seriously the kind of intervention he refer to . through the defend democracy taskforce , we be look carefully at the issue of transnational repression , and we will have more to say about it in due course . can I ask the Minister about the integrity of our democracy ? in particular , what step be he take to ensure the integrity of the process and institution of our political process , especially but not only with regard to China ? my hon . friend make an important point . I briefly mention early the importance that this Government attach to the defend democracy taskforce . we inherit that body from the previous Government . we be work at pace to ensure that it work across Government as effectively as possible . fundamentally , it seek to address the point he make about challenge those threat to the integrity of our democracy . this government will ensure that no stone be leave unturned in seek to address the significant challenge that we all know we face . just a few day ago , the head of MI5 talk about have to make " uncomfortable choice " and pare back counter - terrorism operation in order to deal with the huge rise in state threat . if the government mean what they say about security be the first priority of Government , will the Minister undertake to ensure that MI5 and the security service as a whole have the resource they need to tackle all the threat ? by all mean , blame the previous Government for the state we be in , but it will not get he far , because I need he to answer that question . the hon . Gentleman make a fair point and a good challenge . I can assure he that the Home Secretary and I work incredibly closely with mi5 and colleague across Government to ensure that they have the resource they need to do the difficult job they do . I mention the remark that Ken McCallum make in his annual threat lecture back in October . the nature of the threat we face be more challenging and complex than at any point in our lifetime . that do require resource and expertise . the Home Secretary , I as Security Minister and all the Government will work to ensure that our security service have the resource they need to do the job . I be grateful for the urgent question and thank the Minister for what he have say , in particular about the defend democracy taskforce . can he assure I not only that the Government will do all they can to secure our national security but , with respect to the activity of individual with know link to the Chinese Government and who be consider to be a national security risk , that the full of investigation will be do to ensure the integrity of our national security ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . the United Front Work Department be say to have 40 , 000 member globally , and Mr Yang Tengbo be surely the tip of the iceberg in the UK . the department be task with cultivate relationship not only with high - level figure that extend an influence to british national , but with those in all walk of society . that mean the public need to be much more aware of the risk to themselves . what be the Minister do to assess the number of those member in our society , and what public awareness campaign will he make for my constituent in Dundee and constituent across these island ? the hon . Member make an important point about public awareness , and I will take that away and give it further consideration . with regard to the remark he make at the beginning , he have essentially underline the importance of why we need the FIR scheme . as I have say a number of time before , the Government be commit to implement the scheme . we be get on and will implement it in the new year . notwithstanding the somewhat chide tone of some of the comment from hon . member on the Opposition Benches , do the Security Minister agree with I that it be actually possible both to maintain a consistent and long - term relationship with China , as we must , and to take the robust measure that he have set out today to defend our national interest ? I do agree . that be the challenge for any Government , regardless of their political stripe . yes , of course national security be the priority and we must defend against the threat that we face , but we also have to co - operate economically . the Government will seek to balance those two responsibility . the Security Minister mention the breadth of the national security threat against the United Kingdom . he mention Russia , China and Iran , but , unless I miss it , he do not mention North Korea . will he comment on that ? follow on from the question that my hon . friend the Member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) ask about resource , be the Minister confident that the UK intelligence community , across agency , have sufficient resource to manage the increase threat that he have recognise today ? the right hon . Gentleman speak with experience and authority on these matter , and he be right to mention North Korea . on his point about resource , I be not remotely complacent about that at all . mindful of the nature of the threat that we face , the Home Secretary and I will work with our colleague across Government to ensure that our security service have the resource they need . we have exceptional people step forward to serve , and it be the responsibility of Government , regardless of political colour , to ensure that they have the resource and technology they need not just to keep pace with the threat , but to retain a competitive advantage . we will ensure that they have the resource to do that . Yang Tengbo be the alleged chinese spy who have be stalk the corridor of power in our country , rub shoulder with royalty , Prime Ministers and business leader , yet his name be withhold from the great british public . do the Minister agree that his name be withhold only to avoid embarrassment for previous Prime Ministers and for business leader , and that that be not in the good interest of the british public ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will acknowledge that I name H6 . his initial anonymity be a result of a court order ; it be not a UK Government decision . the west certainly learn a lesson about energy supply and where they come from when Russia invade . to build on what my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) say , I want to press the Minister on solar and renewable . the Government have an agenda to push this country quickly towards renewable energy , yet China manufacture and process a lot of the material that we need for it . before we accelerate towards that goal , will the Minister undertake an assessment of the risk to our energy supply ? that be a crucial piece of our national security . I be genuinely grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his reasonable and constructive point , which we will consider far . he will acknowledge that the Government must make difficult judgment about those matter , but I assure he that we will look at they with a clear - head view of what be in our national interest , and in the end national security will always prevail . do the Minister agree that it be not just the big scheme that need consideration , but the small one too ? elite capture can happen at high education and infrastructure level . Peking University HSBC business school in Oxford want to expand . the local planning authority narrowly pass the proposal . I ask the previous Government to call it in , but just last week this Government approve the scheme . that be a mistake . the economic benefit will go primarily to the chinese Communist party . will the Minister ' s Department ask the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to look again at the scheme ? what resilience be he offer local planning authority on such matter ? the hon . Lady be right . it be not just about the big scheme ; the small one be important as well . I think what she refer to be essentially a planning matter , but I will look at it far . on matter relate to high education , we work closely with colleague in the Department for Education , and mechanism be in place across Government so that when concern be express , we will follow they up . I acknowledge the transformation in the security threat that this country face , and I urge the Government to move forward as quickly as they can with the implementation of FIRS . however , I draw the Minister ' s attention to the website of the US Department of the Treasury , which today give a read - out on the seventh meeting of the financial working group between the US and the People ' s Republic of China , and set out a memorandum of understanding arise from the group ' s discussion in Nanjing . the Minister should do everything he can to ensure that we have a sophisticated relationship with China . as uncomfortable as that may be , in order to preserve global and financial stability , we need to maintain our relationship . the right hon . Gentleman make a very sensible point , as always . I have not yet look at the US Treasury Department ' s website , but I give he an undertaking that I will look at it and report back later today . he be right about the sophisticated relationship , as he describe it . as he know government well , I can tell he that we take these matter incredibly seriously , and that the National Security Council provide the forum for decision making on these issue across Government . a lot of work , effort and political leadership go into ensure that that be an appropriate forum for make decision collectively , across Government . some of those decision be not easy — some be more challenging — but we will always seek to do what be in the good interest of our country . the Government recently put on hold the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act , pass last year . do he feel that that have help or hinder the work of United Front in our university , particularly our elite institution ? the right hon . Gentleman make a fair point , which I be very happy to discuss with he offline . I will look carefully at the suggestion he have make ; I know that it be be consider by colleague across Government , but let I take it away and I will come back to he . China be clearly try to infiltrate all area of UK society . will the Minister outline the meeting that he be have with the Department for Business and Trade to ensure that the UK strengthen its foreign direct investment screening and cyber - defence , and focus in particular on increase datum transparency requirement , in order to become more economically resilient ? the hon . Member make an important point . I can assure he that we be work collaboratively across Government , not only with colleague in the Department for Business and Trade but with those in the Cabinet Office . he have mention cyber , which we take incredibly seriously . I be recently at the National Cyber Security Centre , which be do extraordinary work with partner across Government . we be co - operate closely with other Government Departments , include the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , on look at what more we can do to combat that threat . can the Minister assure the House that chinese investment in the UK be properly scrutinise , particularly those that may be use to acquire leverage over UK policy ? yes , I can give that assurance . the urgent question ask about the extent of the United Front Works Department ' s operation in the United Kingdom . what be the Minister ' s assessment of that department ' s work with , or within , the devolve administration ? the hon . Member make an important point . on the nature of the threat , I refer he to the annual threat lecture give by the director general of MI5 back in October . we work incredibly closely with all the devolved administration , and I hope at some point to visit the hon . member ' s part of the world . I thank the Minister for his answer . he will be aware that I have speak on numerous occasion about the feeling of my constituent who be british passport holder of chinese origin , and their impression of the threat from the Chinese Communist party . other hon . member have also speak on the subject . what the Minister have say be not surprising , but it remain concern . do he agree that inaction be not an option , and how can he give chinese national who be british citizen assurance about their safety and security ? I have have to make report to the Police Service of Northern Ireland because I be concerned for these people ' s safety while they live their life in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . the hon . Gentleman have be consistent in raise this matter . let I give he an absolute assurance that foreign intervention , wherever it come from , be completely unacceptable , and this Government will use all tool at our disposal to combat it . we use the mechanism of the Defending Democracy Taskforce , and there be a lot of work look at the issue of transnational repression . I can assure he that we take these matter very seriously , but if he have specific concern that he want to raise with I , I be always happy to discuss they with he . English Devolution with permission , I would like to make a statement on the publication of the Government ' s english devolution White Paper . this Government be elect on the promise of change , and we be determined to transform our economy and our country through a decade of reform and national renewal that reverse the chaos and decline that we inherit . we will rebuild Britain from the ground up , so that it work for work people , through a mission - lead plan for change that unlock growth and raise living standard in every region . we will deliver new home , job and opportunity for all by match investment with reform to improve local service , and to maximise the impact of every penny we spend . the british people deserve an economy that work for the whole country , and to have control over the thing that matter to they . that be why we be move power out of Westminster and put it back into the hand of those who know their area well . the White Paper that we have publish today set out the mean through which we want to achieve that , back up by our landmark english devolution Bill , which will finally redress the imbalance of power between this place and community up and down the country . this change can not be deliver soon enough , because for all the promise of level up , after 14 year , our nation remain economically divided , with living standard in many part of the country stagnate . we have an economy that hoard potential and a politics that hoard power . as a former councillor and council leader , I have see the immediate and tangible difference that local leadership can make . however , I also recognise the frustration that local leader face in deliver the change that their area need . in fact , it mirror the frustration that local people feel when they can not effect change in their neighbourhood or on their high street . that hit at the heart of what it mean to live a decent life . pride of place and security be right too often deny in the place that need they the most . this Government be determined to end the top - down approach to decision making in this country , and to replace it with a principle of partnership . the last Labour Government begin the process of change by create the London Mayor , the Scottish Parliament , the Welsh Senedd and the Northern Ireland Assembly . I see the transformational impact of empower local leadership in Greater Manchester when in 2014 , a decade ago , I be one of the local council leader who work in co - operation to agree the first english devolution agreement outside London — an agreement that create the combine authority , which have deliver genuine change under the leadership of an elect Mayor , work hand in glove with local leader . crucially , none of the now 12 - strong mayor would claim that they act alone . whether they be attract investment in clean carbon and renewable energy , grow digital and creative industry , bring bus back under public control , or tackle violence against woman and girl , all would point to solid local partnership and the importance of local government in deliver change , but the truth in England be that the process of devolution remain unfinished . today , we be introduce to the House the measure to finally get the job do . at its core , this White Paper set out how the Government will strengthen and widen the mayoral model of devolution across England , shift power , decision making and money away from Westminster in a completely new way of govern and drive growth . we be empower more Mayors by introduce integrate funding settlement , and by give they a statutory role in the rail network , and great control over strategic planning , housing funding and skill training , so that they can deliver change that local people can see and benefit from . ultimately , our goal be mayoral devolution that mean that power can be use to shape local labour market , integrate transport system , cluster of business , and housing development . that be the sort of strategic decision - making that be not possible over a small geographic area . by create strategic authority — a new tier of local government — we will give our city and region a big voice in get the resource and support that they need . the Government will shortly set out their devolution priority programme for area that stand ready to progress devolution on an accelerated timescale , and a plan for inaugural mayoral election to take place in May 2026 . each of those area will have an elect mayor sit on the Council of the Nations and Regions . we will work with those area that be already in discussion with the Government to confirm their position . to those area that be ready to move at pace , we say : come forward now . be part of this movement . be part of this moment . we understand that devolution be a journey , and that some area will need time to decide what course to follow . we want to walk alongside all area — area define locally , not from those at the centre with a map — as they take the first step to realise the potential of devolution , for instance through a foundation agreement to unlock new power . our ambition be clear ; we will legislate for a new power of ministerial directive that allow the Government to create strategic authority where absolutely necessary , if local agreement have not be possible , to achieve full coverage of devolution across England . we will deliver a new constitutional settlement for England that make devolution the default setting , with an ambitious devolution framework secure in law , guarantee power for each level of devolution . all that will be underpin by improvement to accountability , include an outcome framework for integrate settlement , so that the system remain fit for purpose as we devolve more power and funding . none of this reform can be achieve without strong local government . council be the bedrock of our state . they be critical to drive growth and deliver local public service that people can rely on , but they have be neglect for too long . that be why we be establish a proper partnership with local leader through multi - year funding settlement , and move away from farcical bidding war for limited ring - fence funding pot . we will give council the respect and power that they deserve and need to deliver the mission and the plan for change , so that change be keenly feel in every community . we say that we would reset the relationship between central and local government , and we mean it . we will give council the certainty and stability that they need to plan ahead and prioritise their budget , and to tackle local issue through public sector reform and prevention , rather than through more expensive crisis management , for which taxpayer be pay more and more , often for worsen outcome . we have to tackle that head - on . it be important that council be the right size and shape to serve the people they represent , with simple structure that people can well understand . through our bold programme of unitarisation , as announce by my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Budget , we will ensure that local government reorganisation and devolution can be deliver in tandem as soon as possible . we look forward to area come forward with their own proposal . this statement give the clear direction that local government have be ask for , and my door be always open for discussion with colleague about how that will look and feel in their area . although I recognise that this will be a challenging process for some , for many there be grow agreement that the time have come for change . I be under no illusion about the scale of the task that we face in deliver more power into the hand of local leader , but we be commit to reset the relationship with local and regional government , and to work with local leader to deliver the change that the country vote for ; that be what the electorate will judge this Government on . place alongside the work that we be progress on fix the broken audit system , rebuild the standard regime , and bring forward plan for community power , this plan show that the Government be determined to get our house in order and ensure a top - to - bottom redistribution of power in England , as we reset our economy , restore local government , and rebuild our country from the ground up , so that it work , finally , for work people . that be what it mean to take back control , and that be what we will deliver . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . accord to the Ipsos mori veracity index , 41 % of our constituent trust local councillor , with just 19 % have the same expectation of Government Ministers . that be a reflection of the value we place on local leader who know and understand our community . those local leader will be get a clear message from this White Paper : this Government feel that the man from Whitehall know well what their place need . this be not bottom - up local leadership , but top - down template for local government . this be not the chance to flourish as a place and a community with a unique identity and history , but an expectation of be subsume into an anonymous structure that know and care little for local area , focus instead on whitehall target . through the back door , by strip local politician of a say over important planning decision and by impose financial assumption that far constrain local decision making , our local democracy be undermine . instead of genuine devolution , this White Paper set out a reductive approach . it be a mishmash of new tier and new taxis , take decision make far away from resident . if the experience in London be anything to go by , it will cost they a fortune at the same time . more concern still , the approach fail the key test of start with a clear understanding of what we require our local council to do . More than 800 service be deliver by each council on average , range from education to public health , environmental standard , child and vulnerable adult safeguarding , early year , library and museum , not to mention council ' key regulatory function , such as trading standard , housing enforcement and act as the billing authority for billion in taxis . it be hard to see how demanding that all those local officer simultaneously reapply for their own job will help they to focus on the need of their community , not to mention cope with the huge additional responsibility head their way via legislation such as the Renters ' Rights Bill . the approach also do not build on the success we already see . it be common for council to share service and staff to reduce the cost to taxpayer . Breckland and South Holland have share a chief executive for many year . trading standard have be a shared service across London for a long time . those measure , drive by local leadership , be what deliver genuine saving and service improvement . let we look at some of the most serious concern that the opposition have arise from the proposal , above and beyond the year of disruption to council service and rise taxis . when labour council be tell the Government that they be already fail on their housing target and that their plan be undeliverable , why would the Government be focus on remove elect councillor ' say on planning , rather than focus on build the more than 1 million unit that already have planning permission ? why elect mayor to a timetable that be not in any way clear ? at a time when our constituent be labour under a rise tax burden , the Government set out the chilling prospect of mayoral levy . those be charge at nil rate by conservative mayor such as Ben Houchen and Andy Street , but now top £ 471 per band d household in London under Mayor Khan . the black hole in local government finance just get big . impose mayoral control over grant funding for housing and regeneration , detach it from the host community , and move those decision to a remote mayoral tier far undermine the concept of local consent for development . perhaps most worrying for local council tax payer be the plan around great British Energy local power plan , with the potential for even more local authority to be take to the edge of bankruptcy , as local energy company have already do in Nottingham and Bristol . in conclusion , this announcement could have be so much more . it could have be a chance to rethink from scratch the duty , responsibility and funding of local government , and to ensure that its form follow its function . our local leader , many from my own party , will do their good with what be available , and we will have their back as they do what they can for the interest of the people they serve , but make no mistake : this be a massive miss opportunity . the White Paper show that rewire our state , rethink our approach to local government and fulfil the aspiration of local leader and community be be put aside in favour of bureaucratic and structural tinkering . the Minister once stand at the Opposition Dispatch Box and call for genuine fiscal devolution of power across thing such as education and demand more say for local people to hold decision maker to account . whatever happen to that local champion ? I will come to some of the question raise , but let nobody in the Chamber take lesson and lecture from the Conservatives when it come to the perilous state that local government have be leave in . let we talk about the council that be go bust leave , right and centre on their watch . let we talk about the fiscal discipline on 1 , 000 - audit backlog . what do that mean ? it mean £ 100 billion of public money that they could not account for , which hold up the signing off of the national account . that be their legacy , and they talk about be custodian of public money — they do not even know where the money be . what about the crisis that be build up in adult and child ' s social care and in homelessness ? at a time when we should have be think about prevention and reform and get ahead of the problem , essentially the previous Government be make matter bad , not well . when conservative member talk about their legacy and be on the side of councillor , we should ask which government it be that erode the standard regime — its tooth be put completely to one side — leave councillor open to abuse and intimidation and turn council chamber into hostile , toxic environment . which Government be it that make councillor publish their home address when they be face death threat ? we be do the work now to repair the foundation of local government , give it the funding that be need . after a decade of year - by - year funding , we have give local government a multi - year financial settlement so that it can get its house in order as part of the rebuilding work . that be what be need now : grow - up politic , a plan to fix the country and a plan to put local government back on its foot . but just do that be not enough ; we have to break the centralise system . if a local authority want £ 1 million for a local project , the previous Government make they compete with their neighbouring council for a limited supply of money . the bidding war that take place waste million of pound of public money , and in the end they do not deliver on their core promise of level up . that be the agenda , and it have get to change . we have to change that cap - in - hand , parent - child relationship where power be hoard at the centre . the people queue up to have conversation about reform public service and devolve power to mayoral combined authority may not be conservative Front Benchers , but they be conservative council leader who recognise that they finally have a Government on their side , willing to work in partnership to make the change where the previous Government fail . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I thank the Minister for the statement . it be about how we bring local leader back to the agenda and back to the central aim that they have be complain about over the last 14 year . it be important that any devolution reform build trust among local people , who rely on vital service from housing and planning to social care ; the Minister must keep that in mind as he be go through the reform . ultimately , some council may fear that resident ' voice in small district area will be lose if they be absorb into large unitary authority . will the Minister outline how he will ensure that resident do not feel disenfranchised by lose representation in their community ? will he assure the House that , should resident choose not to adopt a mayoral model , they will not be disadvantage ? we know that our frontline service be at break point , as the Minister outline , and many will welcome the multi - year settlement , but we do not want to see adult social care and temporary accommodation — all those area — become stick between a disbanding district authority and a nebulous unitary authority . will the Minister assure the House that there will be proper accountability during the reorganisation and that we will not see local resident and councillor leave in limbo ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for that very important point about how we maintain public trust and confidence in a period of change . first , local government representation to Government will be self - organise within county , and we will receive the recommendation and request that come forward . we will write to all 21 area in scope to invite they to make representation to be part of the first wave priority programme . from the conversation that we have have , we expect a significant number of local authority to want to be part of that reorganisation . but to be clear , that be not something that we be impose . we be write out and local area be self - organising , because they understand that reform and modernisation be central . when it come to not lose a local voice , the White Paper make it very clear that the devolution offer be not just about create new structure , and it be certainly not about create new politician . this have to be a genuine shift of power . there be a big section on community power , because a lot of people — and this may even transcend the previous Government — do not feel power in the place where they live . quite often they feel that thing be do to they and , when they see the decline of high street and town centre , they feel that the change be go one way , and it be not good . the paper be about rebuild local community power . our expectation in the White Paper be clear that , regardless of the size of local authority , every council — include exist unitarie — will work out a way of get to those local community at neighbourhood level , and reflect in a democratic way and a public service way how good to give local people a voice . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . local council be the backbone of our community , deliver service to every home and business . under the last Conservative Government their funding be slash while their responsibility be broaden , which mean that many now face a financial precipice not of their making . as they be alongside resident , they be usually the one in the firing line when people and business be distressed . I have face local government reorganisation before , as leader of Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council . five year on in Dorset , the public be not convince that large unitarie work for they . they do not see service improve ; they just see a more remote council that have to cover a much big area , move money from where it be raise to be spend elsewhere , and through an organisation that can not understand the differ need . scale that up even far , and I fear that more issue and individual community need will slip through the net . the paper talk of mutual respect and collective purpose , but after give mayor such extended power and the ability to levy a mayoral tax , I wonder if the Minister can confirm what specifically will be leave for council leader . for my area of Wessex , which be Thomas Hardy country , rather than be well - know local leader , the creation of a mega mayor be more likely to be a case of " Jude the Obscure " . I be deeply concerned about the impact on local authority staff both now and in the future , include on their ability to move between council to develop their skill . council have already rationalise staffing to make end meet and have share service , as be say by the shadow Minister , and they will struggle to reinvent again . what plan do the Government have to ensure that local authority will be sufficiently fund to implement such change , and to limit the outflow of million of pound to consultant to make this happen ? turn to the role of elect member , the live experience of these community leader be so worth while . I be deeply concerned about the loss of district and district councillor and the move to strategically elect member . those people be likely to be require to travel much far and give much more of their time , make it hard for people with caring responsibility or full - time career to serve . the paper bring forward potential sanction for breach of standard , which be very welcome , but it say little about how we reset the relationship with those counsellor to make sure that the time and effort they put in be properly reflect . the White Paper fail to say anything meaningful about the tick time bomb of social care , and its reference to the financial crisis be face up and down the country hint at further devolution . [ interruption . ] my question be , what can the Minister do to ensure that local community do not feel like this be a top - down diktat and can make their own decision about the future ? before I call the Minister , I remind member that time be at a premium , and I want to be able to get everybody in . I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for her question , and for her service as an elect council member for a period . I understand that there will be concern about the move to large unitarie , but the fact be that there be a two - tier premium that the taxpayer be pay . at a time when resource be limited , we have a responsibility to take money from council ' overhead cost in the back office and bring they to the frontline to give people good neighbourhood service . I suspect that if people be ask , " would you prefer the exist two - tier system or more money be direct at local public service ? " , most would want the money to go into local public service . however , there be a balance here , and it be for local area to find it . we be very clear in the White Paper that we want to move away from councillor be perceive as back - bench . we want to reform they , essentially , as frontline councillor — as the convener of a community , with great power and influence and the ability to get thing do . on social care , an additional £ 4 billion be provide in the Budget , with the provisional settlement to be announce this week . of that amount , £ 600 million be for a recovery grant to go to area with high deprivation but low tax basis , to ensure that we rebalance fairness in the system . although the Minister say in his statement that the proposal be the end of a top - down approach from central Government , to many of my constituent it look like a one - size - fit - all model that work for Greater Manchester , which he represent quite ably , but do not necessarily work for the rural english county . what assurance can the Minister give my constituent — and I , frankly — that this approach will not be impose on local area against their will ? how will he measure consent from a local area that this be the approach they want ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and for secure a Westminster Hall debate on this very issue . the Government do not accept the one - size - fit - all argument any more than an argument that councillor work in some area but not other , and that Members of Parliament work in some area but not other . in the end , when give the power and resource , mayor can achieve change in partnership with local leader . we be not create super - council . we be create a strategic authority that will give power from this place downwards , give councillor far more power . on how we will do it , I can say that in Lancashire , in our drive to widen devolution across the country , the principle be for foundation authority ; of course , Lancashire have already agree to a level 2 , which , in the White Paper , would be the equivalent of a foundation authority . in that sense , it already have devolution in place . the Government say that they want to end the top - down approach . how do that square with a district council such as West Lindsey in Lincolnshire be deny any say in massive solar farm or wind turbine ? will the Minister do I a favour and confirm that his aim be to pass more power back to district council ? indeed , will he promise that he will not unilaterally abolish they just because we have a new mayor for Lincolnshire ? it would be a bit rude to diminish the power of the Mayor of Greater Lincolnshire before they be in place , especially as I will move the order enable the election to happen , and we want they to be a success . we could have take a different view — it be a legacy agreement that be carry over from the general election — but I recognise genuinely that the leader there , who be leader of different party from my own , work in good faith to reach an agreement with the previous Government that we feel need to be honour . that need to be the tone of all such conversation . we need to take party politic out of the conversation , which can be difficult to do in this place . those be not the conversation that I have with council leader and councillor across the country , who genuinely want to put party politic to one side and to work in the interest of their local community . on the question of power over local planning decision , if local council want power , they must have a plan . decision take in this place be subject to rigorous scrutiny and accountability , but recent history in several area show that that be not always the case with local decision making — not all councillor and mayor be paragon of virtue . as we dissolve more power , can my hon . friend explain what level of scrutiny and accountability will be build into his plan ? it be a very important point , and we be mindful of that concern because devolution in England have be develop by deal , rather than with a clear framework from the outset , so there be natural gap . I do not decry , by the way , the progress make previously in fill in the map of the midland and the north of England , but we need to reconcile that now . if we give more power and resource downward , we need to ensure that the check and balance be robust . there be a lot that we need to do . there be recommendation in the White Paper on the principle of a local public account committee , for example , so that public spending can be bring into scope . we be also look at oversight for the body that strategic authority establish , such as trading company or joint venture , to see whether they should be in scope of good value . we be also look at check and balance for the officer structure and whether to bring in an accountable officer structure , as in a local authority , to ensure a clear difference between the political and operational leadership and the power that each have . I welcome the Minister to his place ; this be the first opportunity I have have to do so . as the Department will be aware , both Dacorum borough council and Three Rivers district council in my constituency do not have a local plan in place . they be both control by the Liberal Democrats . will the Minister confirm what would happen in the case of his propose plan ? separate to that , we have local county election next May . what be his intention for they ? do they still go ahead ? there be a lot of uncertainty . in 2026 , how many mayoral election do he anticipate ? on local plan , if any area at this point have fail to get a local plan in place , they be leave the door open for development to take place without any check and balance , and in a way that really do take away local power . we be try to reconcile that and get a balance . I hear quite often about the housing target that have be set — the 1 . 5 million new home . I should say , by the way , that there be a lot of good skilled working - class job that go with that 1 . 5 million new home . there be 150 , 000 kid in temporary accommodation who need a home . there be 500 kid in hotel in my constituency who deserve a secure , affordable place to live . there be a big crisis here , which be why local plan be so important . where they be not in place , we will have to look at strategic plan in those area . we be out to consultation on a number of those point . on county election , the letter will go out today to county council invite they to make a submission in January . subject to that submission be robust , it can be part of a priority programme . we will do what the previous Government do and accept the view that if a local authority will not exist in the near future , it make no sense to have an election to it . however , we will very soon after want to have an election for the shadow authority that will follow , so further detail will follow on that . I thank the Minister for his White Paper . at the back of it , there be five page of power that be not currently enjoy by Lancashire , as a foundation authority . will he agree to work with partner in Lancashire to ensure that we can get a deal do and over the line for a mayoral and a reorganisation package ? Lancashire ' s time be now and , in his word , can we grasp this moment and this movement ? well , I be glad somebody be listen ! there be huge opportunity in Lancashire . if we think about the work that have be do to secure a mayoral combine authority in Hull and East Yorkshire , and if we think about the opportunity in Cumbria , Cheshire and Lancashire , that complete the map of the north . our leader there be already self - organise through the Great North project , chair by Mayor Kim McGuinness , to lead from the front on inward investment . it would be a shame , give Lancashire ' s economic success , particularly on energy and other issue , if it be not part of that agenda . on the organisation , I think most people in Lancashire accept that , after 20 year or more of talk about it , the time have probably come . but it be for local area to come together and have a plan that be right for their place , and to make a submission to the Government . it be not for the Government to redraw the map of England and impose it on every community . but our ambition be clear and the direction be clear : we absolutely welcome area make that submission and we want to work towards more mayoral combined authority . I place on record my thank to my two district council , which I wholeheartedly support : Broxbourne and East Herts . page 17 of the White Paper state that the Government want to create unitary council of " 500 , 000 or more " . what do " or more " mean ? do that mean I could end up with a " super council " for Hertfordshire cover 1 . 2 million people , which be not a proposal that I would support ? in some way we have to give direction . what we hear during the consultation stage with local government — that include , by the way , the County Councils Network and the District Councils ' Network — be that the more clarity on a framework that can be provide by central Government upfront , the well for local government to be able to organise . we be very clear that on an efficiency level — if the drive be for efficiency — the 500 , 000 be roughly the population need to draw out those efficiency . in the example that the hon . Gentleman give , it would not be 1 . 2 million . it might be two or even three council , because in area in discussion about a mayoral combine authority , we have accept — it be outline in the White Paper — that there will need to be some flexibility in term of scale and size of the local authority that sit under it . derbyshire already have a mayor , but we have a two - tier authority . if we can not get agreement on the size of the unitary authority , will derbyshire and similar authority still hold election next May , and how will my hon . friend break the impasse if those at county level want one derbyshire and those in the district want two or three ? the assumption be that election in county will take place as plan , unless authority actively approach we to say that they want reorganisation discussion and have proposal that they can work up . in those circumstance , we will take the view that election to an authority that will not exist should be postpone so that an election for a shadow authority can follow . on Derbyshire , we need to be careful : the Government ' s role be to invite and to receive , not to draw the map , which be for local authority to do . as my role be quasi - judicial and I will need to take a view on potentially compete proposal , I can not comment on what individual county may or may not look like . council be clearly on their knee , and I welcome multi - year funding settlement and change in the grant programme , but will the Minister confirm that the Government will support devolution so that not a penny of council ' budget be spend on it and they can focus on frontline service ? in his statement , the Minister say that council could " take their time to decide on the course they wish to follow " , but go on to say that the Government would " legislate … to create strategic authority " where they feel that be necessary . how do the Minister square those two sentence ? this be about partnership , about tone and about how we can work together . because there have be a fair amount of talk in the sector about reorganisation and devolution , even before the White Paper a number of authority have approach the Government say that they want to have a conversation about local government reorganisation and / or devolution . we have have to respond that we can not have a hundred hare run all over the place without a transparent plan and timescale that can be understand so that people can make a judgment about whether this option be right for their area or not . what we will have be a proposal to double - run a devolution priority programme alongside a local government reorganisation , with a key point where those two piece of work must come together for joint decision making . that will at least mean that every authority know what stage it have reach , and can make a choice : be it at the right point in the process to opt in , or will it need more time ? the point about the backstop be very important . as I have say , there be no map that we be intend to impose anywhere . let we suppose that within a region we have an agreement to compile every county bar one , and we reach the end of the current Parliament . in that event , I think it legitimate to say , " well , there be nowhere else to go . " it be fairly self - explanatory that there will be a fundamental strategic authority in that area , and that be the type of process that we be consider . we be not consider redrawe the map of England and impose this in one fell swoop . it be about partnership and work with local area , and so far those conversation have be very fruitful . I hugely welcome the White Paper . for we who be in the frontline try to deliver service to our resident under the dysfunctional two - tier system that exist in Lancashire , this be a breath of fresh air . it be exactly what we have be request for year . do the Minister agree that now be the time for Lancashire leader to put aside short - term personal and political consideration , not to wait for the Bill to be publish , and to work with urgency in draw up proposal for new local government structure that be focus on the need of resident and , ultimately , bring the high level of devolution to Lancashire ? I entirely understand that there be local tension in Lancashire , to put it mildly , but my experience of council leader in all party and at county , district and unitary level have be positive . even when there be difference , they be share in a respectful way . I would not underestimate the progress of the level 2 agreement that we have in Lancashire , which will see a devolution of power relate to , for instance , skill and compulsory purchase order as a first step towards overall devolution . the agreement contain a commitment that by autumn next year a proposal for a mayoral combine authority will be submit to the Government , with or without local government reorganisation . we have be very clear about our direction on local government reorganisation , and our expectation be that those in Lancashire and other place have hear about that direction and will act accordingly . in the end , time change . my son ' s primary school in Oldham have the Lancashire education committee plaque on it ; in Lancashire county hall , there be the Oldham plaque . time change and boundary change , but people and community do not , and the Government who represent they have to be fit for purpose . if devolution mean anything , it mean give local leader the right to do thing differently . if a future mayor of Essex want to compete with London by create a less heavily regulated or less heavily tax business environment , would that individual have the power to do so under the proposal put forward by the Government ? it be in the eye of the beholder . if the right hon . Gentleman want to turn Essex into Monaco , I suspect that it will not happen . but if he be ask for genuine freedom and flexibility so that local leader can make the right decision to attract investment , assemble site , invest in infrastructure , and remove barrier to planning and infrastructure , that be absolutely where we be go . on the issue of tax and fiscal devolution , we be very clear that the White Paper represent a moment in time ; it be very much the start , not the end . what should be read in the White Paper be an ambition to provide certainty across Government and to make sure that the level of ambition be raise . when the right hon . Gentleman see the schedule of devolution across the programme and the competency — which be very important for economic development and regeneration — he will see that there be a lot of scope there . I thank the Minister for his statement . I welcome the prospect of the further devolution of power over transport , housing and other important economic matter . can the Minister outline the great scope for use those power ? in Berkshire , we would like to see a western rail link to Heathrow , which would dramatically improve connectivity between Reading , Slough and Heathrow airport . unfortunately , many other strategic project have be hold up , such as a third bridge for reading . will he comment on the potential benefit of devolve these issue ? my hon . friend make a good point . I say that this be less about structure and politician , and more about outcome , and those be exactly the type of example that we need to look towards . the real test for many people be , " if I ' m stand at the bus stop on a miserable Monday , when it ' s raining , do the bus turn up or not ? " have more control over local bus service , through franchising or even public ownership , be part of the offer on the table , but bus alone do not fix the transport system ; we also need rail devolution . the White Paper point to an ambitious schedule of devolution when it come to rail and multimodal transport , and particularly to single ticketing , because , in the end , even if we have co - ordination of transport , it need to be affordable for people , and different mode of transport need to be link when it come to single ticketing . there be definitely opportunity on the transport agenda . the Minister will know that in Cumbria we be still go through the process of a reorganisation that happen just 18 month ago . for well or bad , all reorganisation be massively distract and take people ' s eye off the ball . do he understand why resident , business and everybody else in both part of Cumbria — we now have two local authority — be outrage at the thought that a mayoral model might be impose on we ? be that not the opposite of devolution ? be it not right that local community should be able to have the devolution that we want ? we be up for all the devolution that the Minister will give we , but we do not see why we have to have a top - down mayoral model and be tell that we have to have a reorganisation again , five minute after the last one . I pay tribute to leader in Cumbria for the engagement that we have have with they ; I recognise that they have just be through a local government reorganisation and that there have be a lot to settle in the area . they have embrace our conversation with great maturity , and those conversation have be fruitful , but we recognise that different place be at different point . different place have different pressure that they need to reconcile , which be why we be look at a priority programme for the area that will soon be ready to go . we need to get the legislation and consultation in place and make the case to the public . we accept that some area will need long . on mayor , I have be here long enough to see a number of member stand up and protest against the idea of a mayor , only to pop up a bit later as the candidate for the same position , so I say to people in Cumbria : be careful what you wish for . I remind the House that we have around 40 minute , and around 40 member wish to speak , so please keep answer and question succinct . I welcome the move to devolve to every corner of the United Kingdom , but in relation to the upcoming cornish devolution discussion , what be the Minister ' s vision of how the Government will put into practice the legal obligation to protect and support cornish national minority status in the same way that minority status be protect for our celtic cousin in Wales and Scotland ? I thank Members in Cornwall and the leader in Cornwall for the discussion that we have have . I know that devolution be an issue that be strongly feel , and that identity in particular be an issue that be strongly feel . we recognise that we need to strike the right balance , so the White Paper will point to a population size that be optimal in our view — in term of economic footprint , public service alignment and reconcile public service delivery boundary — but we recognise that in Cornwall , as in Cumbria , we might have to take a more nuanced approach . I will be clear that our view be to have establish power relate to integrate settlement and devolve power of significance . that will come with a mayor , but of course Cornwall have agree to a level 2 deal and in the current White Paper , that would be a foundation deal as a starter for that journey . whatever our view on the different flavour of local government , surely we in this House can all agree that good local service be deliver when there be excellent , hard - work local councillor who have be democratically elect . at the moment in county up and down the land , county councillor be campaign for re - election for four - year term next May . the matter before we be an important decision for local people to make and it should be part of the discussion in the election campaign next year , so can the Minister take this opportunity to rule out any suggestion that he be cancel any county council election next year ? in all thing I try to be direct , and I have be direct in say that if those council that come to the Government with a request for reorganisation meet the test and have a credible programme in place , the election will likely not take place until the year after , because they will be postpone to elect the shadow authority that would replace the county and the district . we be clear on that . to give the hon . Lady assurance , there will not be a mass cancelling of election for the sake of it , in the hope and prayer that some council might come forward for reorganisation . there have to be a balanced and proportionate approach , and that be what we intend to take . stoke - on - Trent be already a unitary authority , but it be surround on either side by a two - tier district system of Newcastle and Staffordshire Moorlands , who be our friendly neighbour and proud community but fundamentally different place . can the Minister set out what will happen to exist unitary authority ? can he also say how , as part of this review , he will protect the identity of community who look to a place rather than to a compass point and a county name ? and if we be go to have new mayor with new power , can he set out what the correspond reduction of Ministers in this place will be to reflect the reduce number of service they will provide ? on the question of whether we will reduce the number of Ministers , I can easily answer that by say that that be well above my pay grade , but I hope there will always be a need for a local Government Minister to oversee , to hold people ' s hand and to be a well - wisher . the identity question be really important , and any devolution or reorganisation have to get the balance right . the test that will be apply be in the White Paper . this be about get the balance right between ensure : that the economic footprint , which be the real economy , be recognise ; that , as much as possible , there be public service boundary alignment to service across police , the health service and other ; and that we capture identity as much as possible . there will be a trade - off in some case , but it be for local area to come forward with the right proposal for their area after due consideration . of the 42 council across the country that have increase social home , four be in Oxfordshire . South Oxfordshire district council have double the number of social home it have deliver over the last 10 year . meanwhile , Oxford city council next door have halve its number . there be district council that be do incredible work , so why should they face find themselves lump in with underperform council ? surely , rather than have a distracting reorganisation , proper devolution to those council that be do well be the way to deliver for local people . there be nothing in the White Paper that be about decry the work that have go before . in fact , there be a great deal that celebrate the work do by local government , such as the community leadership provide by frontline councillor , council leader and council executive on a range of issue . they be the builder of devolution , so this be not about something be do to they from the top ; it be about local area come together and make a request to the Government for local government reorganisation and / or devolution . as a government , we will work as partner in that development , but we fully appreciate that district council across England be do a very good job of deliver good public service , but there also have to be an acceptance that this be not the most efficient way of deliver public service ; there be other way . I thank the Minister for the ambition he have show in his statement , particularly on how we can get local authority to support the building of the 1 . 5 million home that this country need . before the White Paper ' s publication , the Department see expression of interest from various area . however , some of those initial submission may no long reflect the scale of ambition or the devolution option that we now know be available . can the Minister reassure I that authority with great ambition , which be ready to act swiftly in line with the power and vision outline in the White Paper , will be give the opportunity to revise their proposal and to fast - track a mayoral model on geography well suit to deliver result for their resident ? there be three type of programme on the transition to the new Government . the first be the legacy devolution agreement that be agree under the previous Government but have not yet pass through Parliament , which we want to reconcile . the second be the area that we want to target — by and large , area in the north of England to complete the map of the north and to populate that area . the third be a write - around from the Deputy Prime Minister to get a real sense of where different area might be on their approach to partnership , to the type of scale and to the type of geography . we see the expression of interest process very much as a temperature check , so the proposal that come forward be certainly not bind either on local area or on the Government . we expect further proposal to come forward , include from the same area . what guarantee can the Minister give that there will be new money from the Treasury to fund the cost of any local government reorganisation in Essex , to avoid the cost of that reorganisation result in cut to public service or increase council taxis ? that question be raise early , and I apologise for not address it . the Government will provide capacity to enable both devolution and local government reorganisation through discussion with local authority . some of that might be fund , and quite a lot might be support through workforce development . last week , we launch the workforce development group — a joint project between MHCLG , other Government Departments and body such as the Local Government Association — to make sure that we be address the workforce issue . even before the reorganisation , we know that many county be struggle to recruit to job like adult social care and many district be struggle to recruit to job like planning , so there be a big issue here that we be look to address . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which list I as a member of Lichfield city council and Lichfield district council . I want to touch on the future of parish and town council , as the White Paper talk in two place about strong engagement between the new authority and parish council . can the Minister go far by say how that will work , particularly give their importance in place like Staffordshire ? Staffordshire have almost 1 million people , be 3 % of the length of England , and have real centre of community and a lot of population centre that be not currently reflect in their district council but be very much reflect in their town council in place like Burntwood . again , we say in the White Paper — I also reference this in my opening remark — that it be a Labour Government who introduce quality status for parish council to recognise that that tier of government have a very important role to play and can do far more if trust and give the power to do so . we see that town and parish council have an important role to play but , in the end , that be notwithstanding reorganisation . reorganisation will need to take place in many area , and parish and town council could or could not do more , but I would say that that be a slightly separate issue . as to the proposal for individual area to take account of issue like identity , belong and the different unit of government , we be happy to have those conversation on a one - to - one basis . I can assure the House that there will be ample opportunity to meet I and my fellow Ministers on a one - to - one basis , as well as for drop - in session , to make sure that matter that be not pick up on the Floor of the House can be pick up later . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a district councillor . real devolution mean empower local community , not centralise power into regional super - unitary council . resident in my constituency of Stratford - on - Avon would be well represent by a south Warwickshire unitary council , rather than a remote warwickshire - wide unitary council , which will have five different local plan . do the Minister agree that a top - down minimum target population of half a million people risk divide exist community and force together community with no share identity ? that be a fair point . I be lose track of the number of mps who be stand up to declare they be still councillor , although I recognise there be a transition — I go through it myself — and there may be an overlap between be a councillor and a Member of Parliament . on the detail of individual county , it be for local area to make a submission to Government , and for the Government to assess the proposal that come forward . the Government do not have a plan on a map for the hon . Lady ' s county , but we expect that the county and the district will get together to work out a proposal that they can accept and submit to Government , which we can then review . Cornwall will welcome further devolution . we be a long way from London , but I want to build on the question about town council . in place like Cornwall , cut to unitary council have mean town council have already take on a lot of responsibility , so how do the Minister see those town council continue in the future ? when Labour be last in government , we bring forward landmark legislation to create the Mayor of London , Parliaments in Scotland and Wales and the Assembly in Northern Ireland . the quality council status be introduce for parish and town council , and power on wellbee and other matter be give to local government . the previous Labour Government recognise , just as this Government recognise , that devolution have to work from the top to the bottom and the right power have to be in the right place . at a neighbourhood level , we see town and parish council play a critical role in devolution , and we look forward to further discussion with the sector . there be much to commend in the White Paper and , broadly , the Minister be to be congratulate . however , he know as well as I do , as welcome as the multi - year settlement announcement be , it be predicate on an outdated and effectively broken funding system . I understand the Treasury be not keen to revisit that in any meaningful way , but may I urge he to consider a rural - proof mechanism to the funding formula , to ensure that the additional cost of deliver local service in rural area be recognise ? change be scary , but I do not recognise the picture paint by the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) . in Dorset , we become a unitary authority , and no sane person would ever want to go back to a two - tier system , but we benefit from the excellent skill of Paul Rowsell , who die early this year and be much miss . will the Minister ensure there be expert team within his Department to work alongside those council that wish to make that important change , which will deliver saving and well service to local people ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , who be my predecessor , for his question and for the tone with which he deal with we in opposition ; I honour that in return . the fair funding review be absolutely critical . we be committed to a multi - year financial settlement , which be about give security , but we all know there be no security if the money be insufficient to meet demand . the hon . Gentleman and the House have absolute assurance that all the cost factor , include the cost of rural service delivery , will be take into account in a fair funding review . in comparable country , a city like Southend would generate £ 55 billion more across the country . will the Minister explain what power the english devolution Bill will give to mayor , so they can drive local growth and area can fulfil their financial potential ? I remember when the Greater Manchester devolution deal be sign in 2014 . its principle be to reform public service , so we could focus on prevention rather than crisis management , which be more expensive and have bad outcome , and grow the local tax base , because the area would become more productive through investment . I will be honest and say that we do not see the investment in prevention reform , so growth be stunt . however , even in that context , growth in Greater Manchester have outperform that of other area , in large part because of the devolution agreement and the leadership and co - ordination involve . even by independent assessment , allow our region to realise their full potential would be worth between £ 30 billion and £ 50 billion to the economy that be not currently be realise , so there be an alternative and we have to grasp it . yesterday , a former labour deputy leader refer to my party as a " threat to democracy " . I be sure that that be a cute turn of phrase for television , but give that the framework that the Minister have lay out allow election next year to be game so easily , be the real threat not potentially the Labour party ? I would not characterise the hon . Gentleman ' s party as a threat to democracy , but it might be a threat to sanity . we be all test on a too - regular basis by fairly ridiculous statement that try to drive a wedge and divide people instead of bring they together . one thing about devolution be that , regardless of party politic , across Labour , the Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives what we have see in local area be that when it come to people , place and put community first , party politic be put to one side . I extend that invitation to the Reform party , too . it be instructive to hear a former local government Minister on the Opposition Benches , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , describe the current system as " broken " . that be probably why we need the White Paper . my constituent have grow weary and frustrate at non - delivery by various tier of local government in Kent , particularly when it come to failure to provide special educational need and disability support for pupil , and poor bus service compare with neighbouring one in London . what hope for well delivery across all service — school , social care , health , transport and road — might we have from the White Paper ? it be previously very difficult for the Government to have an honest conversation with local government about what an adequate level of public service provision should be in a give place , because they know full well that they be not provide the resource to enable that to happen in a fair way across the country . when we fix the financial foundation of local government through the fair funding review and the multi - year settlement , and build rigour around it , we will move away from the hundred , and in some case thousand , of top - down metric that central Government expect council to report on . we will look to simplify the funding system to end unnecessary ringfence that act as shackle on local government , but there have to be governance , accountability and a very clear responsibility to deliver the outcome that the Government want in return for those freedom , flexibility and fair funding . my constituent will be wait to see how the Department ' s plan for local government reorganisation affect Wokingham borough council . they will want to ensure that their voice be listen to if we be to be shuffle around , merge or abolish by Whitehall . importantly , they will want to know whether the Government ' s plan will hit their wallet . can the Minister commit to ensure that funding for any change will come from his Department , not from council tax , which should instead be use to fund vital local service ? only this week be we see a genuine redistribution of money in the local government system so that it go to the area that need it the most . for far too long , the funding formula do not recognise deprivation or that some tax basis be weak at a local level than other . the £ 600 million recovery grant be intend to get to those area . on value for money for public service , and get they down to a neighbourhood level , as I say , there be a two - tier premium that be pay by local taxpayer to the tune of around £ 2 billion , which could be well use for local public service , and by central Government through the floor protection that we give to district council , and that frankly could be use in well way in area of high deprivation and need . I hope that Norfolk will be part of the devolution priority programme so that we can unlock the power and funding that we need on area from transport to housing . may I ask the Minister specifically about the role of key city ? Norwich be a key national and regional economic power , but it need devolution to fully unlock its potential . it be vital that we have a key role and voice in the process of devolution and reorganisation . can he assure we that that will be the case , and set out the process for city in particular to do that ? obviously , we inherit the plan for Norfolk and Suffolk from the previous Government . I will be clear that we could not progress with that deal because it would have see directly elect council leader assume the role of a mayor , but without the framework in place to support that , which we do not support . we have be work constructively with both county to look at a mayoral combine authority over a big footprint , and we hope they will come forward as part of the programme . that be a matter for they . they may decide now be not the right time , but there be huge potential . on devolution in Norwich and also Ipswich , it be important that reorganisation be strongly anchor in term of place and the economy . of course , in this case , Norwich would be central to that . what say will voter in the New Forest have if there be proposal to remove either their district council or their county council ? local government reorganisation be a statutory process , so it require local area to produce plan , as do devolution . both be require to go to public consultation to solicit view — that be part of the process . when the formal process start , the Government ' s role be to assess the proposal and the consultation as submit . we do not take a view on geography and form until we make the final decision . the big issue hold back economic growth in Mid Cheshire be long - term under - investment in our transport infrastructure and the lack of a join - up skill agenda , work with business across local authority border . that be not unique to my constituency . the reality be that , in 2010 , east Germany ' s economy overtake northern England ' s , and that trend have accelerate over the past 14 year . what new power will the english devolution Bill give strategic authority to drive improvement in local transport and to take control of their sub - region ' s skill agenda ? this be one of the reason why we be so keen to complete the map of the north of England . Most would accept that strategic transport , certainly , cross county boundary . if we think about connectivity in the north of England , how Lancashire , Greater Manchester , the Liverpool city region , Cheshire , Cumbria and the rest be join up , and then even into Yorkshire , require co - ordination . we want mayor and strategic authority to work together across that pan - region , so that even more power can be devolve to address the type of issue that my hon . friend talk about . accord to the White Paper , a constituency like mine will see Cambridgeshire county council and Huntingdonshire district council merge into a unitary council as the principal authority , under Cambridgeshire and Peterborough combine authority as the strategic authority . how will unitary councillor fulfil the role of multiple district and county councillor in a part - time capacity , and what do it also mean for the forthcoming combine authority mayoral election in Cambridgeshire and Peterborough ? the forthcoming election for Cambridgeshire and Peterborough will go ahead as plan . there be no proposal to change the boundary of what be currently a combine authority that will move to be a strategic authority . local government reorganisation where there be an exist mayoral combine authority , provide that it be coterminous in term of the review it have undertake , will not have an impact at all . all that happen be the membership of the combine authority will change to reflect the new council structure as they appear . as a former councillor of 10 year who seek election to this place to give power back to community , I be absolutely thrill by this devolution White Paper , and I congratulate the Minister on bring it forward . I have two point . on page 16 , there be an ambition to make the mayor the chair of the integrate care partnership and also the police and crime commissioner , as in South Yorkshire . I commend that and would like to hear more about it . on page 94 , there be a proposal for a right to buy community asset . Hengistbury Head outdoor centre in my constituency just find out that it will be a community benefit society with a lease for 99 year , but it have take far too long to get to that place . I invite the Minister to come to Hengistbury Head outdoor centre — it may involve get in a kayak — to find out more about what this right to buy could involve at the ground level . I would love to know more about the Government ' s intent on the matter . I know many Labour and Co - operative Members of Parliament have be campaign hard on the extended community right to buy . that be about give community the power to take over those important community asset on their high street and in their town centre in a meaningful way . the Minister for local growth , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , be work hard on a community White Paper , which will provide far more detail . in the end , it be not just about that community right to buy ; it be about a genuine shift where people feel far more control , power and agency in the place where they live . try to create multiple unitary authority in Essex will not work , will not have public support , will take the good part of a Parliament to implement and will not save money — in fact , quite the opposite — and there be a risk that local government will grind to a halt in the meantime . as for mayor , in 23 year of canvass in my constituency , I have never once have a constituent say to I on the doorstep , " I want a mayor of Essex . " indeed , look up the road to London , the last thing on earth that we in Essex want be another Sadiq Khan . I will put the right hon . gentleman down as undecided . I welcome the Minister ' s ambitious announcement and the opportunity that devolution could bring the people of Pompey , and I thank he and his team for the time that they have give member of this House and for his offer of an open door . Portsmouth be one of the most densely populate part of the country , so alongside the commitment to desperately need affordable housing , will the Minister commit to use the english devolution Bill to empower my community with the right to buy beloved community asset , such as empty shop , pub and much - need community space , to ensure that city such as mine , and the people in they , feel the pride of ownership once again ? that be a good point . when we talk about important community asset , we see from an economic point of view that it be far well for they to be use and productive , but in the end we also recognise that they be hugely important to community identity and pride . in a lot of working - class area , include Oldham , Chadderton and Royton , which I represent , the local civic building , local pub and local church be not just building but part of people ' s story , and people really care about they . top - down reorganisation of a fail council such as Conservative - run Devon county council be a bit like shuffle the deck chair on a sink ship . we know that year of chronic underfunding have make it impossible for council to fulfil their obligation , so I welcome the multi - year funding settlement . however , create large regional authority do not devolve power ; it shift power and responsibility away from local community to a distant , high - tier authority that will feel remote to town and parish in place such as Devon . we must have the opportunity in May to pass our verdict on Conservative - run Devon county council , which have be fail our most vulnerable child for over a decade . will the Minister assure I that those election will go ahead as plan in 2025 ? it would be rude to deny the good people of Devon a spat between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats . but in all seriousness , it be for local area to decide whether they want to apply to the Government to be part of the reorganisation programme . if we receive a request from that area , we will administer it in a fair way , as we would any other . I welcome the huge opportunity in the White Paper for city such as Exeter , which be also hold back by Tory - run Devon county council — the upper - tier authority . can the Minister confirm that devolution and reorganisation will work hand in hand to help Exeter , a key economic growth city , to retain , enhance and expand its historic self - governance , and to unleash its economic potential as an equal partner in a strategic authority ? absolutely . one keenly feel problem with the previous devolution framework be that it do not have due regard for the role of district council in primary city , university city and economic hub . reorganisation give those place the ability to grow , become unitary authority , and take their place in the new strategic authority . fifteen year ago , just before I join this House , we see the reorganisation of Wiltshire county council into the unitary Wiltshire council , and the abolition of several district council . it seem that another reform in the heart of Wessex will be the probable outcome of these proposal for Somerset , Dorset and Wiltshire . can the Minister assure the people of Salisbury , who still have some difficulty accept the abolition of Salisbury district council , that the propose change will be positive in term of the combination of resource for strategic investment in transport and other such service ? in any local government reorganisation , there be always a fine balance between try to create a cohesive new council and respect the strong local identity that people feel — identity that be unique . when that be do right , the council can be confident in its own standing , because it know that it be deliver outstanding service ; when it be do wrong , it be try to impose an identity on a place through the form of a council that do not reflect the local identity . for those of we in town such as Oldham that go through the 1974 reorganisation , that be feel as keenly as in other area , but that be not about the type of government ; it be about culture and approach . when it be do well , it can work . I pay tribute to all the district councillor in the loyal and ancient borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme , include the Tories who try and fail to defeat I — I will be nice to they . on page 10 of the White Paper , the Minister note that : " we must end the top - down micromanaging " . I agree . notwithstanding how much of this announcement be trail in the press and on social medium in recent day , can I press the Minister on the point raise by my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) ? the Minister have say that there will be trade - off when it come to local identity . who will ultimately decide on those trade - off , and when will people in the real world be able to have their say on these proposal ? People in the real world have their say at the ballot box , because devolution and take power out of this place be a manifesto commitment that we be absolutely clear - eyed about deliver . the White Paper be about deliver that commitment . as for process and consultation , first , it be for local area to determine what proposal they will submit to the Government — the Government do not have a proposal that we be submit to local area . secondly , it would be ideal if local area could get around a single proposal so that the Government ' s only role be to receive it and say , " thank you very much , " rather than choose between alternative proposal from the same area . I thank the Minister for the time he make available to I at one of his surgery appointment recently and welcome the announcement of something that we discuss then : the ending of bidding for discrete funding pot , which be a trademark of the last Conservative Government . how will we ensure that these announcement do not impinge on the announcement his Department make last week ? my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) eloquently set out the challenge of reorganisation in Cumbria . how be we go to make sure that those housing target can be deliver during this period of uncertainty ? we be very mindful that there be a lot of change in the system quite early on . that be deliberate . we believe strongly that when the next general election come , people will make judgment base on whether they feel well in their own financial security — whether they have money in their pocket and feel like they be get on in life — and feel secure in the place where they live . local public service be part of that . as such , we have make a deliberate decision to make the necessary structural change early on in the Parliament , through the White Paper and other measure , so that we can get they out of the way and people can really see the benefit towards the end of the Parliament . I declare an interest as a member of Rugby borough council . page 16 of the White Paper speak about " reform and join up public service " , and say that , " over the long term , the government be announce an ambition to align public service boundary " . will my hon . friend expand on how these reform can enhance people ' s ability to hold public service leader to account through their elect representative , and to exercise great democratic control over such service ? we talk quite a lot about how sufficient funding be not provide over a decade of underfunding , but that do not mean there be not grow cost in the system . we have find that in the end , local government be where all the demand present itself — whether it like it or not — when there be failure in other part of the system , whether that be the failure of developer to build enough property , the NHS not quite be able to co - ordinate with community service , or the private sector exploit its audience and charge eye - watering sum , such as in child ' s service . we have to redesign local public service around people , place and community , and public sector reform and prevention be part of that . the alignment of public service boundary be critical ; if people do not have democratic control and oversight over thing such as integrate care board or police and crime commissioner , align to strategic authority , we will not make the progress that we need to make . I welcome the intention to reorganise local government that the Government have set out . clearly , this have be in play for a while , but the Minister will know that the independent and sovereign kingdom of Kent have have an identity of its own for about 2 , 000 year . the exact border of that identity be open to some debate even today — quite extraordinarily , but they be . will he please tell we what priority he will use in the devolution priority plan ? will he be championing size — the 500 , 000 - plus — the transport infrastructure or the historical affiliation ? how be he go to understand this , and how will he prioritise for the priority plan ? I think the right hon . Member have outline exactly the balance we be try to get . one priority be about size for efficiency through both devolution to strategic authority and local government reorganisation , if that follow in the same area . the second be about how the real economy be function , because in the end this be about growth and make sure that a function economy can be identify and can grow . those will , of course , be mix in with identity to make sure that it work . it follow , I think , that in most place the historic county will be the building block for that , but I know that some boundary be quite hotly contest , as we have see in Cumbria . however , we be not go back 2 , 000 year . part of Britain such as Cornwall that have national minority status have be work towards devolution for decade , if not century . give that the Minister have outline a certain pace and ambition in this White Paper , will he work with Cornwall council , town and parish council , and ourselves to ensure that that pace and ambition be deliver on and secure Cornwall its rightful place on the Council of the Nations and Regions in due course ? there have be a number of compete proposal . I do not believe in elephant in the room , but one be an explicit proposal to have a Devon and Cornwall combine authority with a mayor . it be by and large propose by Devon , but it be meet with what I would describe as quite animate resistance from Cornwall for different reason . it be not our intention — and , frankly , there be not enough hour in the day — to keep get involve in local dispute about boundary and identity . what we want , and this be genuine , be for the local area to self - organise , come up with a proposal that be right for the area , and make that proposal to the government so that we can work in partnership and deliver the outcome of get power out of this place and into place such as Cornwall . I welcome the element of this White Paper that be about devolution , but we have to recognise that some element be about concentration . the Minister have talk about the two - tier premium , but the reality be that his proposal mean that in some place a local tier will be replace by a more distant mayoral tier . do he recognise that this risk create a bit of a democratic deficit ? surely , we should be try to keep the " local " in local government as much as possible . give that average turnout in the last lot of mayoral election last year average 30 % , what will he do to address the risk of democratic deficit ? in particular , will he introduce a fair and proportional system for local election ? the truth be that these strategic authority be about take power from this place and move it down to community . every Minister get hundred of sign - off every single day , but as Conservative Members will remember , they include minister have to sign off whether cyclist can pass through a local park because the parish council have to apply to central Government for permission . that be part of the centralise nature of the state that we have to change . I welcome the statement and the White Paper . centralisation be part of the reason why we be one of the most regionally unequal advanced economy , as IPPR North have set out , but it be important that these strategic authority be run well . what step will the Minister take to ensure that they be fund fairly , and what assurance can he give that strategic authority must demonstrate responsible stewardship of the public finance ? that be why there be a proposal in the paper to regularise the mayoral precept process . where combined authority exist and do not apply a precept , it be not that mayor and combined authority do not cost money — of course they do — but that local authority pay for they through a levy or a contribution outside the precept system . our view be that , for transparency , accountability and political accountability , when mayor and combined authority or strategic authority be spend money , the public have a right to see that identify in their council tax , and they can make a judgment about whether that money be be spend wisely . the resident of Staffordshire Moorlands do not want to be subsume into Stoke - on - Trent . can the Minister guarantee that they will not be force into a devolution deal against their will , and that decision that matter to they will continue to be take in the Moorlands and not in Stoke - on - Trent ? I do not want to get myself into neighbourhood dispute — there be not enough hour in the day . I hope that it will be clear from read the White Paper that this be not a force together , but a genuine distribution of power from a centralise state to community where it really matter . my hope be that local dispute , some of which I be sure be well rehearse and go back a long time , be put to one side . in the end , the prize be the great good , which be for the benefit of all . I welcome the Minister ' s recognition that unitary authority deliver for resident . Bracknell Forest council be an example of a unitary authority promote a strong sense of place and deliver economic growth . although it be small , it be mighty . will my hon . friend agree to work with Bracknell Forest council to develop a plan that work for Bracknell ? we be absolutely committed to work in partnership , give capacity and time to ensure that those local nuance be reflect in whatever follow . the Minister have just conclude the Greater Lincolnshire devolution deal , which I welcome and support . as he will know , there be two unitary authority in the north of the county and the rest be a two - tier system . do the Government expect that two - tier area to come forward with proposal for unitary authority ? if so , may I remind he that the sparsity factor play with Lincolnshire , and the target of 500 , 000 be far too high . prior to 1974 there be three county council to cover the whole county . we do not have a proposal for reorganisation for Greater Lincolnshire , but that be not to say that conversation be not take place locally about make a representation to Government . when that letter go out later today , we expect area that be currently not on our list will come forward on that basis . in the end , it be for local area to determine what submission they want to make , but in term of sparsity and have an anchor that make sense , I completely understand the hon . Gentleman ' s point . Royal Mail Takeover with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the ongoing takeover of Royal Mail Group ' s parent company , International Distribution Services plc . Royal Mail be an iconic national institution , and this Government be commit to ensure that it remain one . since take office in July , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade and I have be clear that the Government will robustly scrutinise the propose takeover of Royal Mail and ensure that there be safeguard for its future . while a takeover bid be still ongoing and subject to the relevant regulatory process , the purpose of this statement be to update the House on the legally bind undertaking that have now be give to the Department for Business and Trade by the bidder , EP Group . I wish to be clear that this do not mark the conclusion of the takeover , and these undertaking will become effective only if the takeover go through . should the takeover complete , I be pleased to announce that the Department for Business and Trade have secure significant commitment to promote a long - term and financially sustainable future for Royal Mail in the United Kingdom . it will be helpful if at the outset I set out where Royal Mail be at the time the takeover bid be announce . before the bid , Royal Mail ' s financial position be challenging . in its financial year 2023 - 24 , Royal Mail record a loss of £ 348 million . that loss be in part due to a long - term decline in letter , and the significant fix cost of the universal service delivery network . at the same time , Royal Mail have not meet its quality of service target set by the independent regulator , Ofcom . Royal Mail ' s performance for the 2023 - 24 financial year result in Ofcom fine it £ 10 . 5 million . while the previous Government be happy to accept decline , this Government have work closely with the buyer to secure significant commitment to deliver the transformation of Royal Mail into a sustainable service , and hard - wired in strong protection for Royal Mail ' s identity . when the discussion with EP Group begin , my Department ' s objective be : first , to strengthen the financial sustainability of this iconic and important british institution ; and secondly , to protect the customer , worker and brand of Royal Mail . today I can confirm that we have agree a deed that customer and the workforce alike can welcome , with significant new commitment from the buyer to the Government . this deed be a clear example of the Government ' s commitment to work hand - in - hand with business to generate reform and investment in public service . it be also yet another example of this government fix the foundation where the previous Government do not . I be proud to announce to the House that we have agree that the Government will have a golden share in Royal Mail . this golden share will ensure that the Department for Business and Trade now have an ability to prevent Royal Mail from move its headquarters abroad or move its tax residency without Government permission . I should make it clear that that be an entirely new measure that be not in place at the time of Royal Mail ' s privatisation . except in very limited circumstance , that measure will remain in place in perpetuity , include when there be a subsequent change in ownership of Royal Mail . I want to be clear that the agreement will not give the Government any role in the day - to - day run of the business — Royal Mail remain a private entity . not only have we agree a golden share , but the EP Group have make a number of other commitment in addition , which I will set out at a high level . those commitment include a commitment to prevent value extraction unless two test be satisfied : first , a financial test that take into account the debt of Royal Mail , so that value can not be extract if the company be heavily indebted ; and secondly — this recognise a key concern of the public — a quality test to ensure that value be not extract unless specific performance target be meet . all business need to adapt and improve in order to respond to change , and Royal Mail be no different . recognise that there be a need for Royal Mail to modernise , there be a commitment from EP Group to ensure that Royal Mail have the financial mean to fund the transformation of its business in the three - year period follow completion of the acquisition . in addition , EP Group have agree to take an immediate step to strengthen Royal Mail ' s balance sheet by remove a significant intra - group debt , which be currently due to the remainder of the International Distribution Services group . the agree undertaking also include a commitment to ensure that Royal Mail retain ownership or access on fair term to those asset necessary to meet the universal service obligation . next , EP Group have agree to meet all the regulatory requirement that Royal Mail Group be subject to , include ensure that it remain the universal service provider for as long as EP Group be in control . we all know — not just in this House , but across the UK — that Royal Mail be an iconic british brand , and that be why there be a commitment to the exist brand protection in place for Royal Mail . Royal Mail be a respected and revere operator , and not just in the UK — it have various international responsibility at international fora and with the overseas territory . those will be respect and continue , maintain the UK ' s prestigious international position . EP have state its long - term commitment to Royal Mail , and the discussion have demonstrate the wide range of area of public interest in the work of the company , so I be also pleased to confirm that EP have commit to take step to facilitate discussion between any future owner of the business and the Government , be that in 10 or 20 year ' time . these commitment have be offer by EP Group to the Department on a voluntary basis ; nothing have be offer in exchange . I take this opportunity to thank EP Group . I be confident that we share the same objective of a reliable and financially sustainable universal service provider , while worker and consumer be place at the heart of a sustainable Royal Mail . I be also pleased that , as well as reach an agreement with the Department , EP Group have today announce that it have in - principle negotiate agreement with both union represent the Royal Mail workforce . the Government welcome those agreement , and I be confident that the constructive and collegiate approach between the union and the buyer can represent a restart for industrial relation in the Royal Mail Group . I have set out some of the key commitment , but there be further commitment from EP Group that I do not have time to set out in full today . I be therefore place copy of the deed in the Libraries of both Houses . I will keep the House inform as much as I can as the takeover progress . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . may I start by thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement ? before I get into my question , can we take a moment to thank every postman and postwoman up and down this country for their hard work , particularly at this time of year ? in all the challenge weather , they be out there put letter through every letterbox in the land and collect thousand of letter from the red pillar box in every corner of our country . I take the opportunity , especially in this Christmas season , to say thank you on behalf of all of we . every colleague here will recognise the importance of Royal Mail , both as an institution and as a provider of a vital nationwide service . it have be in existence for more than 500 year , and it have see a lot of change over those year , but the one consistent thing be that it be still a service on which we all depend every day . it be not the only way we communicate any more , but it be a vital one , and it will continue to be need , include by Government . what a shame it be that one of the big postal delivery do by Royal Mail this year be from the Government . it be a letter to many pensioner — often on low income — cancel their winter fuel payment . the dwindle number of letter send have erode the base on which the success of Royal Mail be build . the inevitable consequence be that Royal Mail have be face serious financial challenge , and amid those challenge the service receive by people across Britain have become bad , whether that be delivery miss their deadline , letter go miss or occasionally , in some area , people go week at a time without post . the example of that failure be show last week by the fine that Royal Mail receive . the cost of this poor service can not be overstate , whether it be for those who subscribe for service by mail , those who rely on business delivery or those who miss appointment with their general practitioner , impact their health and cost the Government . that poor service can not be allow to continue . the inward investment into the service announce today will be scrutinise by shareholder , but give that they be the golden shareholder , I have question for the Government . what guarantee have the Minister receive about the service provision ? what commitment have he receive about the level of job across Royal Mail ? how much of Royal Mail do the employee themselves now own ? in some place it have be report that the commitment to the tax residency guarantee be for five year , but I hear the Minister say at the Dispatch Box that it be perpetual . can he clarify that ? what ongoing role will the Government have in make sure that Ofcom ensure that Royal Mail deliver the service expect by customer ? the fine do not seem to be do it . an important part of the service offer by Royal Mail be the universal service obligation , which now require post to be deliver six day a week and parcel to be deliver five day a week . when the Royal Mail be work well , the universal service obligation provide an outstanding service . however , Royal Mail wish for it to be reform . do the Minister believe that the obligation must be maintain in its current form ? can he confirm what discussion he have hold with EP Group about the obligation ? will he confirm whether there be a sunset on the obligation ? he mention that there potentially be with a transfer of ownership . the value of Royal Mail go far beyond the universal service obligation . can the Minister outline whether he expect any of the other service provide by Royal Mail to be impact ? for example , can my rural constituent continue to count on their letter be collect from every post box ? what risk have he identify with the takeover itself ? although the Post Office and Royal Mail be separate entity , they be closely tie . just over a month ago , the Government announce that more than 100 post office branch be at risk of closure , with hundred of job lose . can the Minister explain what assessment he have make of the risk face the Post Office and how they will be impact by the sale of Royal Mail ? Royal Mail face the same headwind , often create by this Government , as other business . whether it be Labour ' s employment regulation or the national insurance job tax , business have warn that they may be force to put up price and cut job , because of the very action of this Government . finally , can the Minister confirm whether Royal Mail have express concern over the Budget or the Employment Rights Bill ? I thank the shadow Minister for her comment , and I start by join she in thank all those postal worker who throughout the year — not just at this time of year , when it be particular busy , but 12 month a year — come rain or shine , sleet or snow , deliver those much - need communication from friend , family and love one . I be pleased to be able to go to my own depot in Ellesmere Port last Friday . I will go to another one in my constituency , in New Ferry , this Friday . all hon . member should be encourage to make those visit , because they really show how much we appreciate the work that our postman and woman do . the hon . Lady be right that the Royal Mail be a service that we all depend on . I agree that performance have not be good enough in recent year . that be why we have have a number of discussion with the company and with Ofcom about how we will get thing back on track . that be why the agreement be so important , because the deal will get in the investment need to try to drive up that performance . I turn to some of the hon . Lady ' s specific question . on guarantee of service provision , the legislative framework be already there for the universal service obligation , and I see the takeover have no impact on that . it have not be part of the discussion — it be an entirely separate issue — but Parliament will have its say on that if need . next year , Ofcom will have a consultation on the universal service obligation . I think it be recognise that an awful lot of work be need to bring standard up to the level that we would like , and one of the protection in the agreement will hopefully deliver on that . on job guarantee , the hon . Lady will be aware that the general secretary of the Communication Workers Union have speak positively about the agreement reach . he believe that sufficient assurance have be give on job . on employee engagement , she ask whether the employee will own the company . that be not the case , but they will have a say in governance in future as a result of an agreement between the Communication Workers Union and EP Group . that be to be ratify by the Communication Workers Union executive , but that will be a groundbreaking arrangement that we do not have previously . she also ask about tax residency in perpetuity , which be what the golden share do indeed intend to deliver . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I welcome the statement make by this hard - work Minister . I take it from the announcement that Mr K ř et í nsk ý have clear the investment screening test that the Cabinet Office be responsible for . it would be useful to have that confirm . let I press my hon . friend about the universal service obligation . be it his intention that beyond the initial five year he will seek six - day delivery and a universal service obligation in place for Royal Mail for as long as his Majesty ' s Government retain the golden share ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his comment . the golden share be to deal with tax residency and headquarters be domicile in the UK . obviously , there will be discussion about the universal service obligation . we know that this be a fast - move market , and that will be for determination by Ofcom some time next year . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Royal Mail have be plague by issue for year , and my constituent do deserve well . a reliable postal service be essential for all of we , but particularly for rural business and those wait for important NHS appointment . naturally , in community like those I represent in Wiltshire , there be some serious concern about what the statement might mean for the quality of rural service . last Friday , I meet with the brilliant postie in my constituency of Chippenham , some of whom have be in the job for nearly 50 year , who be rush off their foot deliver Christmas card . spend time with they remind I how important they be — they can often be the first people to notice that someone have not be to their door in day . they be the unseen champion of our community , particularly in rural community where other people be not walk past . they remind I that a reliable postal service be essential for our local community . I therefore join hon . member in thank they for their dedication , specifically at this time of year . business depend on timely delivery , and many old resident rely on our postal service for banking , utility and keep connect . any weakening of the universal service obligation would disproportionately harm the rural area of Wiltshire where alternative be limited . therefore , the Government and EP must give we a commitment that they will not water down the Royal Mail ' s service at the public ' s expense . with the Royal Mail ' s universal service under review , it be particularly important for the Government to be clear about the future of these service with this new owner . I would be grateful if the Minister make it clear to my constituent at home that the number of delivery day will not be reduce as a result of this sale to EP Group and that any change on the horizon will not be charge to the public purse . my question about the delivery standard be particularly important , give that we be in the middle of Christmas , and many million of people rely on the Royal Mail , not least for that . one thing that be particularly concern for we at the moment might well be — [ interruption . ] I be sorry , I have one last thing . with it move abroad — order . I be sorry , but the Liberal Democrats get two minute for their response and we be quite a while after that . I assure the hon . Lady that the universal service obligation be not contingent on this deal — that be an entirely separate matter for Ofcom to be consider — but a number of commitment that we have secure in this agreement will hopefully improve standard , which in any event have clearly not be as we would all want . I welcome the Minister and the Government ' s work to secure the long - term future of the Royal Mail . the statement show that we have get a good deal for UK customer and worker . will the Minister assure I , Royal Mail customer and worker in the Livingston constituency that when the deal go through , the new owner will be hold rigorously to their obligation on an ongoing basis ? we have have too many instance over the last 14 year of privatised industry go off track because the regulatory environment have not ensure that they meet their obligation . my hon . friend will not be surprised to hear that some of my early discussion in this role have be with Ofcom , and indeed with Royal Mail about its performance . there be a share determination between not just the regulator and the Government but the trade union , the worker and the new owner to drive up that performance , because we can all clearly see that it be not good enough at the moment . thirty - one year ago , when I have the Minister ' s job , I be try to privatise the Post Office , but I be stop by rebellious Tory Back Benchers — nothing new there . I be sack a week later . so I warn he that this be quite a difficult issue . what people be worried about be the universal service obligation — it cost so much more to deliver in rural Lincolnshire than in central London — so I think that what we be all worried about be that , as the Royal Mail move ever far away from public ownership , this new private company will try to chip away at the universal service obligation , particularly in rural area . can the Minister reassure we that he be really on the case ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . be he now the rebellious Back Bencher , I wonder ? we all share those concern about the universal service obligation . this deal be not contingent on the universal service obligation . we have have discussion on how we improve the current state of affair , because it be clearly not good enough . I hope that his constituent will see an improvement in service as a result of this deal . barely a week go by without a constituent reach out to I to express frustration at the quality of service they receive from our local Royal Mail delivery service . what will the announcement mean for they and for the quality of service that they receive ? we hope that the deal will lead to an improvement in service . specific investment commitment be be make as part of the deal , which we hope will be use to drive up standard . I think that everyone be committed to see an improvement on where we be at the moment . I have eight Royal Mail delivery office in my constituency , staff by a team of hard - work postie who cover a vast rural area around the Scottish Borders . will the Minister tell they , and I , what commitment the new owner have give to maintain those office and staff level ? the hon . member must be busy at Christmas time if he have eight office to visit . he make an important point about the Royal Mail ' s vital role in rural constituency . we have get commitment to improve standard , and hopefully the deal will deliver on that through the increase investment that have be agree . postman and postwoman in my constituency be shake to the core a couple of month ago when one of our postman be brutally attack and hospitalise while do his round . I be sure the Minister will join I in send my sympathy to he and his family for that terrible incident . when I visit the depot in my constituency — fortunately , I only have one — the postman be concern about the long - term future of Royal Mail . what assurance can he give I and postman in Harlow that he have do all he can to protect Royal Mail and ensure that any future takeover do not lead to a running down of service ? first , I extend my sympathy to my hon . friend ' s constituent who be attack . we all feel abhorrence when public servant be attack do their job . my hon . friend can be assure that service will be protect . this be an opportunity to get investment . we have commitment that be not in place previously post privatisation , so we be in a well place than before . on Friday I will be visit the delivery office in my constituency . like other member , I be concerned to reassure those who work there about what this privatisation will mean for they . we have talk a lot about service and universal obligation , but what reassurance can the Minister give that job will not be lose down the line ? it be not a privatisation — that begin under the hon . Lady ' s party ' s time in office . this be an important step forward , get commitment that be not previously in place to protect the Royal Mail brand and deliver the investment that we all clearly see be need . our postie go above and beyond 12 month of the year , but especially at this time of the year . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement , but I particularly welcome the support that it have garner from the workforce . can he say a little more about his conversation with the trade union during the negotiation about the industrial relation reset that have be discuss by the general secretary of the Communication Workers Union ? what step have be take to ensure that any future owner of Royal Mail do not run it into the ground ? the Secretary of State and I have regularly meet the Communication Workers Union . as my hon . friend rightly point out , there have be considerable industrial unrest in recent year , so it be extremely good news that the Communication Workers Union have talk positively about the groundbreaking deal that it have sign with EP Group . I agree with the union that it be time for a fresh start and a complete reset of employee and industrial relation . we want good industrial relation across the whole economy , so we welcome the constructive way that EP Group have engage with the trade union . we hope that that spirit carry forward into the future . as many have mention , many rural community will be concern to know how this could affect they . I speak to postal worker in Blandford Forum in my constituency on Friday ; they can be the good advocate , so can the Minister ensure that they be well prime to explain to their customer — who they be very proud to serve — what this mean for the universal service obligation ? likewise , the Royal Mail have such a crucial job in deliver election , particularly but not exclusively with postal vote . there be grow concern about the resilience of Royal Mail to meet the grow demand . I appreciate that it be outside the Minister ' s brief and he may need to write to I , but can he provide some assurance to the House that the contract that the Government give to Royal Mail will be honour in full by the new owner to ensure that our democracy can still function ? the hon . Member may have notice that I be sit next to the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) , before the statement and we have a brief conversation about that , because we all agree on the importance of Royal Mail deliver our democracy . I assure he and his constituent that it be our intention to see that the universal service obligation be comply with and improve on in future . I start by thank postal worker across the country for the magnificent job that they do all year round . I remind Liberal Democrat Members seek assurance that it be under the coalition Government that the Royal Mail be privatise in the first place , with none of the assurance that we have currently have . I refer member to my entry in the register , and I declare that I start my work life on a Royal Mail apprenticeship . it be a proud part of my life — 28 year of service , and I be proud of all of it . the Royal Mail have be run into the ground and be currently break . through the golden share , the Minister have be able to get this Government back in the room , because we have be lock out ever since privatisation . that represent a breakthrough , and ensure that Royal Mail do not carry on as it have . the current board be responsible for the big failure in quality of service , the big attack on its workforce and the creation of a two - tier workforce . can the Government give we some assurance that those responsible will not walk away fill their wallet , but will turn around and apologise for what they have do ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and his service in the Royal Mail . clearly , arrangement for those currently in the Royal Mail be a matter for the new owner once the deal go through , and I be sure that that point will be discuss . he be right that the performance have not be good enough , and we be very pleased to have secure a number of commitment in the deal that be not previously in place . I welcome many part of the statement , not least the part on quality assurance . I would like to know a little more about that because one issue in Dundee , which have the large teaching hospital in Europe , be that appointment letter often arrive too late , which of course have an impact on the NHS . I want to focus specifically on the question not yet answer , which be about job . in Scotland , 11 , 000 people be employ by the Royal Mail , and they will be listen today to find out what cast - iron assurance there will be for their job . Mr K ř et í nsk ý recently complete a takeover of a french supermarket , promise in 2023 , in the run - up to that deal , that there would be no job loss , but one year later there be plan to cut 3 , 000 job . can the Minister be very specific today and tell we what cast - iron guarantee he have for the 11 , 000 people employ in Scotland and those who be employ elsewhere across the UK ? I have no doubt that the Communication Workers Union and the Unite Communication Managers Association would not have speak positively about the deal that they have strike have they not receive sufficient guarantee about the workforce . as I say , the general secretary of the Communication Workers Union have be on the air today , speak very positively about the commitment that he have receive about not just job security but governance arrangement , and about worker have a " meaningful stake " in the success of the business move forward . this be a really positive deal , and if the CWU be speak positively about it , I think the hon . Member should be reassure . on Friday morning , I visit the West Brom Royal Mail sort office and see the fantastic work that the staff there do . many of the postie have work there for decade , and one for as long as 40 year . how will this deal protect Royal Mail and , critically , the postman and postwoman who be so important to our community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . one of the big asset in the Royal Mail be the workforce itself . that be widely understand not just on the Labour Benches but by the EP Group . as I say , commitment have be make between the trade union and the EP Group on job security . I hope that go some way to deal with her concern . when I visit the two depot in my constituency last week — I join member in thank our postie — I notice how run down and age the van fleet be . will there be an upgrade of Royal Mail fleet as part of this deal ? give the Minister have say that the Government ' s golden share do not extend , maybe understandably , to operational matter , be the takeaway today that there can be no assurance for my rural constituent that their service will be maintain at the level that they expect ? I can assure the hon . and learn Member that there be nothing in the deal that affect the universal service obligation , and it be our understanding and commitment to continue to ensure that there be a universal service obligation move forward . there be commitment in the agreement to deliver more investment . on the van network , I know that Royal Mail have purchase a number of van in recent time , conveniently from the Stellantis plant in my constituency . hopefully , that will be replicate throughout the country , because it be an age fleet . as the company have ambitious target to meet net zero , I think it want to improve the make - up of the stock . I thank John Kay , my local CWU rep , for show I around the Fotherby Street depot on Friday morning . it be very good to see my current postie , Nev , there as well . they point out that some of the performance issue , include miss delivery , come down to a lack of staff , which come down to the two - tier workforce . it be less desirable now to work for Royal Mail . have the Minister have conversation with Royal Mail , EP and the CWU about move to end the two - tier workforce ? when I visit my depot on Friday , we discuss the two - tier workforce and the variation in term and condition . I think it be generally recognise that it be not a helpful thing ; I do not think it have help Royal Mail with retention . my understanding be that there be agreement to be make between the Communication Workers Union and the EP Group on move away from that . the detail have yet to be ratify by the union ' s executive , but I hope that will mean there be a common basis to try to deal with the issue . I be the proud son of a postie , as the Minister know , and I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a proud member of the CWU . when I meet my local postie at the depot on Friday , they tell I that they have see the demise of Royal Mail since privatisation . my constituent be ask for reassurance — what can the Minister tell they about how we can finally get Royal Mail operate to a decent standard again , ensure they get their letter on time ? I pay tribute to the work my hon . Friend father do , and to his work as an official of the Communication Workers Union . what the union have say about the reset in industrial relation be really important to improve standard ; of course , the other part of the agreement — on investment in the company — be much need . when everyone work together , everyone share the common goal of the business expand and improve its performance . I think we have get everyone align on that at last , and I hope that we will all see improvement off the back of that . our postie be friendly , familiar face who go above and beyond all year round , but never more so than at Christmas . it be a pleasure to visit Bournemouth Royal Mail depot recently , on a tour with Martin and Sonia . will the Minister outline how the Government will prevent any future owner of Royal Mail from drive the company into the ground ? what assurance can he give the people of Bournemouth that Royal Mail will finally deliver ? there be a number of safeguard in the deed of understanding that relate to value extraction , so the EP Group will not be able to take profit out of the company unless there be an improvement in performance ; there be also safeguard in respect of debt leverage . I hope that give my hon . friend the assurance he be look for . I join member in pay tribute to and thank our postal worker . in particular , I thank those at my depot in Portsmouth North , which I will be visit for the second time next week ; that be one of my first visit when I be elect . like I , the postie and people of Portsmouth North be concern when the previous Government begin to negotiate a takeover deal . we therefore welcome the step that this Minister and his team have take , particularly around the involvement of the workforce and the trade union . can he give we further information on those negotiation talk ? a number of commitment have be make that be not previously in place , and there be no doubt that we be in a much well position than we be post privatisation . as I say , this groundbreake deal between the union and the company include right in term of governance , a profit - share incentive and guarantee on job security . I be sure that member will be pleased to hear that we really have make fantastic progress . for the final question from the Back Benches , I call Dave Robertson . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) be right to raise the issue of complaint , which I be sure all member from across the House receive from constituent let down by failure to meet the universal service obligation . from speak to postie , as I do today , it be clear that postie right across the country , just like my hon . friend the Member for Corby and East Northamptonshire ( Lee Barron ) , be proud of what they do . they be proud of the job that they do , proud of be part of the community , and proud of the identity that work for that iconic brand give they . it be clear that they be not the one who be let the public down ; that be down to the current board of the company , which be run the organisation into the ground . today I speak to a proud postie , who say that he feel the company be a national disgrace — that show how far it have fall under the current ownership . can the Minister assure I that the new ownership will not be allow to sink to the depth that the current ownership do under the guidance of the previous Conservative Government ? I agree with my hon . friend that when the Royal Mail fail to deliver , it be not the fault of the postman and postwoman ; it be about institutional failure in the company that have be allow to fester for too long . he will be pleased to hear that we have secure a number of commitment to get the investment and security that we need to ensure that the poor performance do not carry on . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . when I speak early on the english devolution White Paper , I forget to alert the House to my entry on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a Hertfordshire county councillor . I want to correct the record at my early opportunity . I thank the hon . member for prior notice of his point of order , which be now on the record . water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] second reading I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be delighted to open the second Reading debate on the Water ( Special Measures ) bill — something I hope the whole House will consider to be an early Christmas present . I thank the noble Baroness Hayman of Ullock for her outstanding leadership of the Bill during its passage through the House of Lords , where it quite rightly win support from all side . our river , lake and sea be part of our beautiful british landscape and have be enjoy by generation . our countryside be one of the thing that make we proud to be british , but that pride too often turn to dismay because in too many part of our country , the local river , lake or beach have be make filthy by pollution . People worry that the place they enjoy when they be young be no long there for their own child or grandchild . no parent should have to worry that their child might get sick from splash around in the local sea or river . our green and pleasant land be no long quite so pleasant . our river , lake and sea be be choke by record level of pollution from untreated sewage , as well as chemical and run - off from agriculture and highway . the Bill be not just about the desecration of water run through our countryside . clean water be essential for every home and business up and down the country . it be one of the essential foundation of our economy , our community and our national security . we use water to cool power station , generate electricity , supply our leisure industry and grow the food that feed we , but our water infrastructure be under increase strain . it be outdated , inadequate and crumbling . the situation be make bad by our change climate , with more frequent and severe rainfall , flood and drought . water supply to home and business be disrupt too frequently in some part of the country . I have speak to resident in Hastings and Rye who be rightly furious at the inadequate information , lack of alternative supply and little to no compensation when yet another outage happen in their locality . I thank the Secretary of State for the work he and his Department be do to change the compensation rule so that when these incident happen , my constituent get high level of compensation — something that the Conservatives have 14 year to do , but fail to do . have they act in that time , my resident would not be leave without compensation for the incident that have happen in Hastings , Rye and the village . I pay huge credit to my hon . friend . she have be such a champion for her community in Hastings and Rye , demand the well water service they deserve . the failure to invest in our water infrastructure mean that the demand for clean drinking water will start to outstrip supply as early as the mid - 2030s . without urgent action , some part of the country would then face water rationing . the water system be break but , instead of fix it , the previous Conservative Government just stand back and watch as our water infrastructure crumble into disrepair . instead of strengthen regulation to ensure water company invest sensibly and at the right time , the Conservatives hobble the regulator and let water company divert million of pound into wholly unjustified multimillion - pound bonus and dividend payment . do the Secretary of State share my amazement that under the previous Conservative Government organisation have to campaign to have sewage - free river , lake or sea , as if it be some kind of privilege rather than a right for everyone ? do he have any idea of the amount of money that be take out of the sector , and out of the infrastructure we need , in profit and bonus under that government ? I agree that it be indeed amazing . I know that all of we on the Labour Benches , and perhaps on the Opposition Benches too , share the public ' s anger at what happen to our river , lake and sea . the legacy of 14 year of Conservative Government be the high level of sewage spill on record , economic growth hold back by a lack of water supply , and now potentially painful bill rise to fix the problem they leave behind . the Secretary of State say there be the high level of spill on record . how do he know ? when Labour be in power previously , only 7 % of sewage outlet be even monitor . I have to say to the hon . Gentleman that there be very little point in monitor sewage in the water if all you do be watch the sewage increase and keep on flow into our river , lake and sea . the Conservatives seem to be satisfied with the failure they preside over . the Labour party will fix the problem that they leave behind . if you find crack in the wall of your house and ignore it for year , the problem get bad and the cost of put it right escalate . that be exactly what the Conservatives do to our water system . they refuse to bring in the investment early enough , so age infrastructure crumble even far and the cost to bill payer have rocket . we be about a month away from Thames Water signing up for another £ 3 billion of debt . if that happen , 46 % of the bill of every customer in that catchment will be spend on interest expense , and that be without even pay down the £ 20 billion of debt . how be that help anyone ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . one of the reason the Government commission a review into governance and regulation be because of the failure of the current system that the previous Government allow to continue . I share customer ' anger about the scale of water bill rise they seem likely to face . they be rightly furious at be leave to pay the price of conservative failure . I be grateful that the party opposite have indicate support for the Bill . it be just a shame its support have come so late . in December last year , while they be still in government , I call a vote on introduce a ban on unjustified bonus for water boss , but they refuse to do it . they could have act at any point over the past 14 year , but they would not do it . there have be many time in history when Labour have have to clean up the Tories ' mess , but rarely quite so literally as clean up the raw sewage pollute our country ' s waterway . I thank the Secretary of State for give way . do he acknowledge , though , that under the previous Labour Government we see none of the massive capital investment that we be see now with the Thames tideway tunnel , which be start under the Conservative Government in 2016 ? it will be complete next year and be one of the big change to remove sewage from our waterway in history . the Conservatives have 14 year to fix the system and they choose to do absolutely nothing . they have leave it to the incoming Labour Government to clear up the mess they leave behind . the truth be that the water sector need a complete reset . it need reform that put customer and the environment first for once , and a new partnership with the Government to invest for the future and upgrade our water infrastructure . my constituent do not understand why they may be face a 50 % price increase from Thames Water , partly to service a £ 3 billion loan . the Secretary of State talk about reset the water industry . will he consider take Thames Water into a special administrative regime , so it can be properly reset and the inappropriate debt build up under the previous Government write off to the benefit of taxpayer and consumer ? there be a process by which any company would go into administration . that situation have not yet arise with any company . the Government be , of course , closely monitor the situation with Thames Water , but as thing stand the company remain viable and I reassure consumer in that area that there be no threat , and would be no threat , to water supply in any circumstance . the Government have a three - stage plan to deliver change and bring in the big ever investment in our water sector . that start with the initial reform I announce in the week follow the general election . it continue with the Bill before the House today . it will be complete with the water commission , lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe , and further legislation that will follow on from that . in my first week as Environment Secretary , I meet water company chief executive and announce a set of immediate reform to start the process of change . money earmark for investment to upgrade water infrastructure will now be ringfence , so it can not be divert for other purpose , include pay bonus or dividend . if it be not spend on what it be intend for , it will be refund back to customer as discount on their bill . water company agree to formally change their company objective to place customer and the environment at the heart of everything they do . they will set up powerful new customer panel to scrutinise key decision . customer who face frequent water outage — like the constituent my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) talk about — or contaminate tap water , as resident and business experience in Brixham in Devon , will now receive more generous compensation and they will get it fast . we promise in our manifesto to put water company under special measure to clean up our water . the core provision of the Bill do precisely that by strengthen the power of the regulator and hold water company to account for poor performance . the Secretary of State rightly talk about the role that regulator have to play , whether that be Ofwat or the Environment Agency . while the water company be get away with what they be do , the conservative party take huge amount of money out of the ea . independent figure from unchecked UK suggest an 88 % reduction in enforcement activity , and that a 50 % reduction in the environmental protection budget lead to a 60 % reduction in activity . will he set out more on how regulator will be key to clear up our water industry ? absolutely . my hon . friend make some extremely important point . in my speech , I will be come on to how we intend to ensure the regulator not only have additional power but additional resource to enforce those power . on compensation , sewage discharge have a massive impact on the local economy in place like Cleethorpes in my constituency , which rely on holidaymaker to support our tourist and hospitality economy . will the compensation extend to business , or will those company which be put under special measure be require to support other local business that be hamper as a result of sewage discharge ? that be an important point . polluted water do not just damage people ' s health ; it damage the health of local economy as well , and the compensation will extend to business in a way that it previously do not . the Bill give Ofwat legal power to ban bonus if water company executive fail to meet high standard . it will introduce strict penalty , include imprisonment , when senior executive in water company obstruct investigation by environmental regulator , and it include provision to allow automatic and severe fine to be impose for wrongdoing . when increase cost be a result of penalty be issue by the regulator , for instance under the new automatic penalty regime , penalty will come out of water company profit and not from customer . in evidence give to the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , Ofwat confirm that have the measure to ban bonus be in place early , the boss of Southern Water — which cover my constituency — would not have receive his most recent bonus . it be Tory inaction that allow it . my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner for clean water for her constituent , and she be quite right . if million of pound have not be divert unnecessarily and unfairly into bonus , that money could have be invest in improve the break water infrastructure . the Bill will go far by expand the cost recovery power for the Environment Agency , Natural Resources Wales and the Drinking Water Inspectorate . that mean that water company will bear the cost of enforcement activity , in line with the " polluter pay " principle , while also give regulator the extra resource need to hold water company properly to account . as the Bill seek to strengthen the regulation of our water company , be this not an opportunity to finally regulate the existence of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance in our water ? those highly toxic chemical can be link to serious health condition . Scotland , the European Union and United States have put guidance on a legal footing . why be the Secretary of State not use this opportunity to regulate the presence of PFAS in our drinking water , and to protect our health and that of our child ? I recognise the point that the hon . Lady be make , and the Water Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , will be pleased to meet she to discuss it far . this government will not let water company get away with abuse that the last Government do nothing to stop . the Bill will open up the sector to great scrutiny by ensure that there be consistency and transparency in the reporting of pollution . it require water company to report in near real time on discharge from emergency overflow which at be present largely unmonitored . it require water company to consider the use of nature - base solution such as reed bed , wetland and tree planting when they develop their drainage and wastewater management plan . that will ensure that they consider all possible opportunity to use sustainable approach that benefit the environment as well as manage water more effectively . I be extremely encouraged by what the Secretary of State be say . in my constituency — I have be follow this for well over two year — the amount of sewage discharge have be absolutely contemptible . in 2023 alone , Thames Water pump sewage into the river 116 time , for 990 hour , even when it be not rain . I be hearten to hear that , unlike the last government , our Government intend to take serious measure to ensure that boss be force to clear up the mess that they create , and stop they do it . can the Secretary of State reassure I that , unlike the last government , he will ensure that the regulator use the power they be give and do not behave as feebly as they have for the past 14 year ? order . before the Secretary of State respond , may I point out that intervention must be short ? More than 60 Back Benchers want to speak in the debate . my hon . friend be right to make that point . we be not just give the regulator more tooth ; we be also give they more resource to ensure that they can carry out enforcement against those responsible for wrongdoing . the Bill require Ofwat to consider how it can contribute to achieve target set under the Environment Act 2021 and the Climate Change Act 2008 when carry out its function . together , these measure will ensure that water company serve customer and the environment far well in future . do the Secretary of State agree with I , and with my constituent , that sewage pump 193 time for 404 hour , in the context of £ 41 million in bonus , produce angry resident , un - swimmable sea and potential bill rise — in short , a real faece show — and do he agree that it can not happen again ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for explain why her constituent be so angry about the situation , and why the Bill be so necessary as we start to turn the water industry around so that it serve customer and the environment well than it do previously . I want to reassure the House that although water be a devolved matter , my Department have engage with the devolved government of Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland throughout the development of the Bill . all its provision will apply to both England and Wales , and we will continue to work closely with our Welsh counterpart as it progress . rise — I hope that Members will allow I to make some progress . I be worried about how much time I be take , give that so many other member want to contribute to the debate . the Bill be just one part of the Government ' s ambitious and long - term approach to fundamentally transform the water sector . together with the Welsh Government , I have commission Sir Jon Cunliffe , the distinguished former deputy governor of the Bank of England , to lead an independent commission on the future of the water industry . it will be the most comprehensive review of the industry since its privatisation 35 year ago . rise — I will make some progress , if member do not mind . the commission will review regulation and governance from the bottom up to ensure that we have a robust framework that can attract the significant investment that be need to clean up our waterway , while guarantee future water supply , restore public confidence and promote economic growth . Sir Jon will be support by an advisory group cover area include the environment , public health , engineering , customer , investor and economic . the commission will seek advice from stakeholder group , include environmental campaigner , consumer champion , water company , regulator and the public , and it will make recommendation by June 2025 . this be our opportunity to completely reset the water industry so that it be fit for the future and can finally move on from the failure of the past . I want to thank my hon . friend the Member for Hull West and Haltemprice , who will steer the Bill through this House . I know that she will lead this work with the expertise and passion for which she be well know across the House . no one be well suit to lead our Department ' s first piece of primary legislation under the new Government . this Bill be our chance to right the wrong that have so angered member of the public up and down the country . water pollution be not inevitable and it be not acceptable . our child and grandchild deserve to make the same wonderful memory that we do , splash about in clean river , swim in the sea or play on the shore of our beautiful lake , without fear of get sick . it be time to clean up our water once and for all , and the Bill be an important step in make that happen . let we seize the opportunity to give this country back the clean river , lake and sea that be our share birthright . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the opportunity to debate the vital issue of water and how this Bill may be improve . the Secretary of State will be relieve to hear that I intend to focus on water quality tonight , rather than his selling of farmer , fisherman and family business down the river — we deal with that this afternoon at the London Palladium summit . across the House , we agree that there be fundamental problem face the water and sewerage industry that span decade . while we enjoy high - quality drinking water across the UK , there be , sadly , some stream , river and beach where sewage be discharge with disgusting result , chiefly because our victorian - era sewerage system can not cope with a large population and increasingly volatile weather . we Conservatives recognise that when we enter government in 2010 and start the enormous and decade - long task of turn thing around . and how be that go ? I will come on that , and the hon . Gentleman will regret ask that question . I be go to set out our record on water , because it be important that this Government act on the fact rather than believe their own rhetoric — as be demonstrate , sadly , by the shameful betrayal of farming and family business in Labour ' s Budget of broken promise . since 2010 , the number of designate bathing water have increase . we have see a significant improvement in water quality rating , with more water rate as " excellent " or " good " , and an increase in blue flag beach . I gently point out that England perform well than other part of the UK when it come to leak , drink water quality and bathing water quality . I understand why Labour Members — include the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) , who be no long in her place — have raise the issue of dividend , but it be an inconvenient fact that over 65 % of dividend be pay out during the New Labour Government era , with a decline over the 14 year that we be in government . there be more to be do , which be precisely why we want to help the Government to improve their piece of legislation . it be also why the work of the last decade must be see as part of this giant infrastructure project . we be the first government in history to set out that storm overflow must be reduce . to do that , storm overflow have to be monitor and measure . I have to say that I be surprised that the Secretary of State be so dismissive of the need to monitor . as a Home Office Minister , I be painfully aware that we need to monitor , for example , report of sexual violence against woman , because once it be measure , we can manage it . it be surprising that the Secretary of State do not appear to think that monitor storm overflow matter . the reason why be that the previous Labour Government monitor just 7 % of storm overflow in 2010 . he can not say that there be more overflow than ever before , because the previous Labour Government do not measure they . the fact that we increase monitoring to 100 % of storm overflow mean that we know the frequency and have be able to build a body of work on top of that . [ interruption . ] he ask what we have do as a result , and I be very happy to help he with that . the datum have empower enrage resident to demand that their local stream , river and beach be clean up . it be a critical part of the decade - long work on our water system that be require , but we be not content with maximise monitoring . the datum must be use — rise — I will give way in a moment . the datum must be use to improve water quality , which be why our landmark Environment Act 2021 give strong power to regulator and impose strict demand for tackle pollution . we set legally bind target to improve water quality and availability , and to reduce nutrient pollution . we roll out catchment - sensitive farming to 100 % of farm in England . presumably , the Labour Government support the Environment Act 2021 , because they seem to be replicate some of it in this Bill . we recognise that the age water infrastructure need rebuild . the Conservative Government step up the requirement for investment , include investment from water company in storm overflow improvement and nationally significant infrastructure project , such as the Thames tideway tunnel super - sewer — the Secretary of State need only walk out the back of this House to see that sewer . he be now take credit for the last Government ' s work and be not happy to accept that . may I suggest that if the right hon . Lady wish to see the situation in the Thames , she need only go three bridge downstream to my constituency of Chelsea and Fulham , where the people who live in the Chelsea Reach houseboat regularly send I photo of the dirt and sewage come down the river after 14 year of absolute failure to regulate the industry ? I imagine the hon . Gentleman present himself as a fair - minded individual to his constituent . when the Thames tideway super - sewer be open and functioning , presumably he will say to his constituent that they will see a vast improvement in the terrible situation that he have just describe , thank to the previous Government secure investment in order to make it possible . listen to the right hon . Lady and the excuse that the previous Government have make for what they do , it seem that what you be do be equivalent to polish one of the many turd that you will find in the Thames . perhaps you would like to listen to your main electoral competitor , Reform UK , which actually have a policy for public ownership — I be quite surprised to find that out myself . perhaps you think that that could solve many of the problem in UK water . order . one solution would be not use the word " you " . as an experienced member , he should know much well than that . particularly as the hon . Gentleman be talk about effluent , which be not respectful . I know that he be capable of much great advocacy than that . I be afraid that I will take no lesson from the Reform party , as he encourage , although I understand that Labour may face some threat from that party in the Welsh Senedd election — but I digress . we make it clear that the water industry must prioritise action to improve the environment , include protect priority habitat such as chalk stream . I have the good fortune to have chalk stream in my constituency ; they have carve their way through Lincolnshire ' s wold for the last 10 , 000 year . the dedicated chalk stream fund , announce by the Conservatives in 2022 , have be put to good use in Lincolnshire . will the Minister for Water and Flooding , whom I welcome to her place , confirm in her wind - up that the protection scheme for chalk stream will continue ? follow the pandemic , we launch our plan for water , which integrate water and food planning , tackle all source of pollution and give the Environment Agency the power to issue big penalty to water company . we ban microbead in rinse - off personal care product , reduce plastic bag usage by 95 % and ban wet wipe contain plastic , which be a huge source of water pollution . I understand why the Labour Government highlight the bonus that water company boss have receive . again , I gently point out to the Secretary of State — perhaps he have not do his homework — that the Environment Act 2021 , which his Back Benchers do not seem to have read , give regulator the power to ban water boss from receive bonus if company have commit serious criminal breach . [ interruption . ] Labour member ask whether the regulator use it . they be independent , and it be for the regulator to justify why they have not use that power under the legislation that be available . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will do in a moment — I be not like the Secretary of State . the truth be that Labour member do not like hear the fact . we bring forward measure to ensure that company that pollute the environment can be hit with unlimited financial penalty . we also set up the water restoration fund , mean that any fine or penalty level at water company be ringfence to support project that improve the environment and keep pressure off bill , rather than be return to the Treasury . the fact that Ministers appear to have stall the fund reveal how little this Government understand the countryside or care about it . indeed , it look like they have hold back £ 168 million in fine that be due to be pay into the fund . why on earth would this Labour Government not want polluter to pay ? why be they content for fine of many million of pound to be pay into the Treasury slush fund , rather than local environmental project that have be damage by storm overflow ? do the Treasury really need that money , or be it perhaps pay for the Deputy Prime Minister ' s new , flash apartment ? my colleague and I will work to ensure that the water restoration fund be reinstate and that money go to local environment project to protect local environment , as be intend . Most of the measure in this Bill , include monitoring , block bonus and significant fine , be in fact bring it by the Conservative Government . indeed , primary legislation be not necessary to put most of these measure into practice . I be pleased to hear the right hon . Lady champion her party ' s record on the environment . her colleague be somewhat less confident , give that only 12 . 5 % of the parliamentary conservative party have bother to show up to the debate . be that because they be ashamed or because they do not have the same confidence as she do in their record on the environment and pollution ? no , it be because they know that we have already put most of these power into place and that this be a pr exercise . none the less , it be an important topic , which be why we will ensure that the Government improve the Bill — there be much improvement to be do — and work constructively across the House to ensure that that happen . we understand that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent in Calder Valley want clean water as much as my resident in Lincolnshire do . in Committee and beyond , we will be work to improve this Bill , and I want to join the Secretary of State in thank the noble Lords in the other place for already start this task of improvement . in particular , I congratulate Lord Cromwell , who amend the Bill to improve accountability on debt level and the financial structuring of water company . will the Minister please confirm that the Government will keep those amendment in the Bill ? on a fairly small technical point , the hon . member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) make the point that 12 . 5 % of Conservative Members be here . perhaps he should look at the statistic , because only 11 % of Labour Members be here . I know that the last Labour Government be not interested in monitor the outflow , but they could at least monitor their own member . I thank my right hon . friend . that show that we on this side can count , unlike the cockeyed accounting of the Chancellor and her Ministers . in Committee and beyond , the Conservatives will look to deliver an effective limit on water company borrowing . we will boost the way that nature - base solution can be use in drainage and sewerage management plan , as well as in water storage and tackle pollution . we will also seek to bring back the water restoration fund as an absolute priority . do the right hon . member think it be acceptable that 90 - year - old resident in Fillongley in my constituency go out in their wellington boot at night to deal with flooding in their village because her Government do not invest in local solution for the last 14 year ? of course the constituent ' experience that the hon . Lady have describe be not acceptable . I do not think anyone would say that it be . sometimes the public be switch off by this back and forth , because the idea that anyone would be content with the experience that she have describe be for the bird . the difference that we draw on — I hope we will have a much more constructive conversation about water than this — be that the investment that be make by the last government in flooding have have many benefit across the country but , as I acknowledge at the beginning of my speech , there be more to be do . that be why we will support the Bill , but we will be look to improve it . I just want to make sure that the Minister get the point that I be make . the amendment that come from the Lords to improve accountability on debt level and on the financial structuring of water company be a critical one , and I very much hope that the Government will address this and set out their commitment to keep that amendment that the noble Lords see fit to put in the Bill . as I say , in Committee and beyond , the Conservatives will look to deliver effective and constructive amendment to this Bill , but I put down this marker . it be surprising — and , I have to say , disappointing — that the Government have fail to grasp that water company and sewage be just two element in manage , maintain and improve our waterway and water quality . where be the plan for investment in infrastructure ? where be the plan for nature - base solution ? where be the plan for the role of other business ? as we face the likelihood of increase bill be announce this week , what guarantee and reassurance can the Government give to bill payer ? and what plan do the Government have to separate foul water and surface water system ? that be a critical infrastructure question that I hope we will get some answer to in the come week . how will the Government encourage investment , particularly give the depressive effect on growth that this Chancellor and her Budget be have on the economy ? I thank the shadow Minister for her word of wisdom in the Chamber tonight . do she share my concern over the excessive bonus that the chief executive of these business get ? do she know how much that anger and annoy the ordinary person in the street , who want to know why somebody be get a six - figure sum for not do their job right while they be just try to make end meet ? of course we understand that , and it be why we put the power into the Environment Act 2021 that I be sure the hon . Gentleman and many other vote to support . I hope we can move away from this back and forth and understand the fact as they be and how we can improve on they , because that be what we all want . we all care about the quality of our water . let we not pretend or suggest otherwise . I would not suggest that Labour member do not care about the quality of water , and I do not understand why they think we do not care about the quality of the water that we and our constituent use , drink and swim in — [ interruption . ] it be interesting — the left do not like it when we point out that they use motivation rather than the fact . this be why the Conservatives set in train the measure need to make a meaningful and long - term difference to water quality in this country . that task be not yet finish , and we will support thoughtful , sensible and cost - effective measure to far improve water quality . rise — this be a heavily oversubscribed debate and I want to get as many Back Benchers in as I can , so Back - Bench speech will be limit to a hard stop at four minute . I call Matt Rodda , who be go to show we how it be do beautifully — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . Mr . holden , be this a crucial point of order relate to the business take place right now ? yes , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Secretary of State have the opportunity today to make a declaration of interest , in have have football ticket worth £ 1 , 800 donate to he by Hutchison 3 G UK Ltd , a wholly own subsidiary of Hong Kong - base CK Hutchison Holdings , which also own three quarter of Northumbrian Water . I just wonder whether he would like to make a quick declaration on the record . I be not sure that it be a matter for the Chair to regulate member ’ declaration of interest . it be on public record , which be why the hon . Gentleman have be able to make that point on the Floor of the House , and no doubt it have be note . now , Mr . Rodda , you have four minute . the floor be yours . it be a pleasure to speak in tonight ' s debate , and I start by make my own declaration of interest , in that I have family member who work in hydrology and in environmental science , which be closely related to the water industry . in support of the Bill , I want to make three point about the real experience of my constituent with water pollution , with water supply issue — which be very serious — and on the need for serious action to tackle those issue . I be lucky to represent reading . it be a wonderful town at the confluence of two major river : the River Thames , one of the country ' s big river , and the Kennet , a beautiful tributary of the Thames . it be a chalk stream that start in the north Berkshire down and flow into the River Thames at Reading . my hon . friend ' s constituency neighbour my constituency of Reading West and Mid Berkshire . in addition to the beautiful chalk stream , the Kennet , I also have the beautiful River Pang , which have unfortunately be decimate by the sewage outflow under the previous Government , with child walk to school through raw sewage in the street — an absolute disgrace . do he agree that the measure in this Bill will get tough on fail water company such as Thames Water ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . that be exactly the problem , and I want to help member to picture its seriousness . in 2023 , Foudry brook , which flow into the Kennet , be badly polluted . next to well - establish willow tree on the bank of that small river , which flow through local field and past people ' s terrace house into reading , I see with my own eye putrid green water — the stench be unbelievable — cause by a sewage outfall in Hampshire that flow into Foudry brook and ultimately into the Kennet , then into the main River Thames . that be the sort of disgusting pollution that we be concern about , which be why I be so pleased with the Government ' s action on this important matter . it be also important to local resident who live next to river , who walk near river , who use canoe or boat in river , or who fish in river . thousand of local resident in my area , across our county and in other similar part of England , as well as those live near lake and sea , be affect by this issue . I have see other appalling instance of pollution . in another case , I be walk with my wife next to the Thames in the middle of winter . it be a beautiful scene and , look across the river , we could see tree , field and hillside in the distance . there be a heron on the water . sadly , this view be blight by the sight of dark brown - cream foam frothing on the river and gather next to an island — the foam be cause by nitrate pollution from sewage . this be in the River Thames , in a beautiful area just outside Reading , and it be the sort of disgusting pollution that we and our constituent be all have to face . that be why this Bill be so important , and I hope we can all agree to support it because such appalling pollution simply should not be take place in England , or in any part of the United Kingdom . I realise that time be press , but the measure in this Bill will also tackle some very serious issue with water supply . I have resident who have their water cut off for two day , nearly a year ago , and still have not be compensate . this affect hundred of people live in east Reading , in the Newtown area near Reading University and the Royal Berkshire hospital . they be unable to shower or cook , and they have multiple other problem cause by the lack of water supply . I endorse the Government ' s measure to toughen up the response to such failure of service . we recently have another incident where resident be expect to drive 9 mile to Henley - on - Thames to collect water , which be simply unacceptable . resident , include vulnerable resident , have to drive for a 45 or 50 - minute round trip to collect bottled water from a Tesco supermarket on the outskirt of Henley , yet there be multiple site in the north part of read from where emergency water supply could have be deliver . both example show why this important legislation be need . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak tonight , and I look forward to hear more from my hon . friend . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a great privilege to speak on this Bill on behalf of my party , and a still great privilege , I dare say , to speak as the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale , which include windermere , Ullswater , Coniston Water , Haweswater , Rydal Water , Grasmere , Elterwater , Esthwaitewater , Brotherswater , the River Kent , the River Eden and much of Morecambe bay . we be a stunningly beautiful part of the country , and also one of the wet . for we , water be unavoidable and precious . it be precious to our biodiversity , our heritage and our tourism economy . as the House may have notice , the Liberal Democrats choose to make water the centrepiece of our election campaign . so much so that my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) spend much of the campaign in the stuff . we continue to champion a radical restructuring of our water industry , because water be the most vital of resource and because we can not allow a continuation of the poor regulation , wanton pollution and abuse of power that become hallmark of the water industry under the Conservative Government . there be much to welcome in this Bill , include criminal liability for chief executive who be responsible for severe environmental failure — a measure that I remind colleague be propose by the Liberal Democrats before the last election , and that Labour refuse to support at the time because it believe the measure to be unnecessary . we be pleased that Labour now agree with we . we be also encourage by the proposal to increase some of Ofwat ' s power , to introduce a fit - and - proper - person test for chief executive , to institute an automatic fine system that make sense , to install real - time monitor , and to create great datum transparency . all these measure be welcome , and they will all help , but they do not yet amount to the radical structural transformation that be so obviously need . the recent announcement of Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s review be welcome , but it be also kind of frustrating . it suggest that the Government might well be up for a more radical change , just not yet . the review will not conclude until next summer , of course , after which many people , include in the Treasury , will need to go over its proposal before it hopefully make it into a King ' s Speech , run the risk that the more ambitious part 2 might not find its way on to the legislative timetable in this Parliament . of course , fix the entire water industry and sewerage system be not an overnight job , but this feel like an especially ponderous way to solve such an urgent and pressing issue . the hon . Gentleman talk about the peril of act too slowly , but give that a liberal Democrat be in charge of the water industry when it be privatised , do he not think that we might all be pay the price for the error of act too quickly in that instance ? unless , to my absolute surprise , the Liberal Democrats be in power in the 1980 and early 1990 , I do not think that could have be the case . I be at university with the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) when it happen , and neither of we be in government at the time . the british people rightly believe that they vote for a far more ambitious plan than the one in the Bill , and they believe that they vote for it to be deliver urgently . the big mistake that Labour government tend to make be not be ambitious enough , presumably under the impression that they will be in power for long than they perhaps might be , so my friendly advice to the Government be to seize the day and seize the moment . the million who vote Liberal Democrat at the election absolutely do vote for ambitious and urgent change . do my hon . friend agree that the water company need to be regulate , to protect not profit but the environment ? do he also believe that bathing water , like the wonderful Tone bathing water in which I be swim the day before yesterday , should not automatically be de - designate ? I commend my hon . friend for his swimming activity , and I agree with he . the regulatory framework should be use to improve our waterway , not to strip they of their vital designation . we take the view that it be our job to campaign with energy and passion for a radical clean - up . we be determined to keep our word to the voter by fight for that action . I will take a quick moment to say something that I feel be most important . the people who work on the frontline in our water industry , and those who work for the Environment Agency and Ofwat , deserve our thank and admiration — yet , because of the failing of the system , they end up take the blame that ought to land here in this place . the legion of people run our water system do a vital job , so I want we to get the tone of this debate right . we can be rightly outraged about how our water industry be allow to operate , and at the same time be hugely grateful to those who , despite the system , do outstanding work to serve our community . I want those people to know , and to hear , that we really value they . they be a blessing to we . they be not the problem ; the system be . we be determined to fight for a well system for all those people to work in . in a previous life , I draft many of the amendment to the Environment Act 2021 . I be sorry that the shadow Secretary of State would not let I intervene on she , and I be far sorry that she and most of her colleague vote against every single one of those amendment . the hon . Gentleman be very kind and wisely vote for they . although conservative member now talk about regulation , all the previous Government do be cut the regulator off at its knee , and we be now deal with the consequence of their inaction and decision . I thank the hon . gentleman for his service in a previous life , as well as in this one . he make a very important point , to which I will turn in a moment . there be no point have great regulatory power if we do not have a regulator with the resource to do the job that it need to do . nevertheless , regulation could be make well . water industry regulation be split between the Environment Agency and Ofwat , and that plainly do not work . we have two inadequately resource regulator , with inadequate power , be play off against each other by very powerful water company that be far well resource and able to run ring around the very good , but very harass people whose job it be to hold they to account . I welcome the concession make in the Bill require Ofwat to contribute towards meet the target of the Environment Act 2021 and the Climate Change Act 2008 . that be a step in the right direction because I believe it will be the first time that Ofwat will have proper environmental obligation , alongside its business obligation . we have receive promise , as the Secretary of State set out from the Dispatch Box early , that this Government will strengthen Ofwat ' s power in way that we do not see on the face of the Bill . for instance , Liberal Democrat peer ask the Minister to confirm that the Government would ban water company boss get bonus when their company have have a major category 1 or category 2 sewage incident the year before , and the Minister in the other place say : " these be the type of circumstance in which it would be highly inappropriate for a bonus to be award . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 20 November 2024 ; Vol . 841 , c . 247 . ] that be very welcome , but it be not on the face of the Bill . I pay tribute to my Liberal Democrat colleague in the other place , who forensically engage with the Bill to make it much well . I also pay tribute to the collegiate and constructive manner in which the Minister , Baroness Hayman , work with they . to be clear , though , the liberal Democrats would go even far and create a unified and much more powerful regulator , the clean water authority , absorb the regulatory power of Ofwat and the Environment Agency , but with many additional power , include revoke the licence of poorly perform water company swiftly , force water company to publish the full scale of their sewage spill , reform water company to put local environmental expert on their board , and put robust , legally bind target on sewage discharge . on the issue of discharge , we welcome the change to require datum from emergency overflow to be publish within an hour of a discharge . that will require company to monitor all emergency sewage overflow and to ensure that datum be report to the Environment Agency within the hour . to pursue the point make by the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , my concern be that the Environment Agency be already massively overwhelmed . in my constituency , I see good people work very hard , but with Coniston , Windermere , the River Eden and the River Kent compete for time , attention and resource , as well as the ongoing work of build flood defence in Kendal , it be hard for they to be able to focus . the hon . Gentleman talk about the Environment Agency be under - powered and under - resource . with river like the River Wharfe , it have clearly fail to address illegal discharge and to enforce the law . do he , like I , welcome the fact that the Bill will introduce more support for enforcement by allow the Environment Agency to recover the cost of any enforcement from the offend water company ? yes , to a degree . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention ; it be very welcome , as be the investment that be promise and the way in which it will be provide , but — and I be happy to be put right on this — I think the figure use by the Government be an additional 500 member of staff for the Environment Agency . that be one per constituency in England and Wales . that will not make a noticeable difference . in practice , the Bill could well permit a continuation of the current situation , where water company will be set and mark their own homework , with an Environment Agency without the capacity to even manage its current workload , let alone the new duty the Bill will give it to monitor masse of important overflow datum . the regulator must be much well fund to do that well . even then , the regulation rule must be watertight for the Environment Agency to ensure that the water company can not pick and choose which information they release or retain . the Minister indicate that the datum will be make publicly available and easy to access . I look forward to hear more detail about how that will be do . that could be a positive move , allow citizen scientist and campaign group — such as the wonderful Clean River Kent Campaign group , the Eden Rivers Trust , the South Cumbria Rivers Trust and the Save Windermere campaign , as well as many other from other community — to be able to hold the water company to account to a great degree . after all , knowledge be power . we be keen to encourage the Government to move forward with that . we would also like to see water company publish the volume and concentration of discharge from all emergency overflow , not just their duration and frequency . will the Minister consider include that duty ? and should we really have water company instal and maintain their own monitoring equipment ? we believe that the Environment Agency or its successor should be do that , with the full cost of that work pay for by the water company . the Bill make almost no attempt to address the structure of finance and ownership of the water industry . the Minister have indicate that the Bill will seek to change the culture of the industry , which would be welcome , but cultural change will only come with a change to the reckless profiteering that have be the norm . as right hon . and hon . member on the Conservative Benches have say , Lord Cromwell in the other place table an amendment require annual update from water company on any financial restructuring that they have do or plan to do . it can not go unacknowledged that financial stability and good governance seriously affect the environmental standard that any water company be able to reach . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Members for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) and for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) who make those point in relation to Thames Water . I be grateful to my noble Friend Baroness Bakewell for table a Liberal Democrat amendment to the Bill in the Lords to create special status , with special protection , for Windermere as an exemplar of the standard we will expect in our waterway across the whole country . the Campaign for National Parks ' health check report , which be release early this year , find that only five out of the 880 body of water in the national park of England and Wales meet the high ecological standard , and that every single one be polluted to some degree . windermere itself receive 140 million litre of pollution in the last two year . amendment table in the Lords , which we will table here also , will seek to tackle that . water industry leader must be force to take responsibility for the care of these world class lake and waterway , and our amendment to the Bill would ensure that they do so . although the privatisation of the water industry be an incredibly bad decision and definitely do not happen on our watch , I be not convinced that renationalisation would be necessary or a good use of public money . I fear it would mean that we would have to buy the asset back , put taxpayer ' money into the pocket of those who have already make so much money out of they , without a single penny of that money go into improve infrastructure . instead , it seem wise to move away from the current model and to ensure that water company should be community benefit corporation , so that all revenue go into keep environmental standard higher and solve the long - term problem of our network . none of our constituent should have to pay for company debt . these be business decision , take by those who take risk to make money , rather than to invest in our sewage system ; they should bear the consequence of those risk . the current regulatory framework seem to leave water company immune from the high penalty , despite their repeat failure to meet their basic obligation to prevent sewage from be dump in our lake , river and coastal area . the current rule mean that , under special administration procedure , to remove a water company ' s licence to operator would mean the regulator serve a 25 - year notice on they . that be why we be disappointed that the Bill do not go as far as we want , or as far as so many water campaigner have ask for it to go . the Cunliffe review give we hope of a more radical set of proposal to come later in this Parliament , but our community be impatient for change — a change more radical than this Government be so far willing to offer we . although we see nothing in the Bill to disagree with and much in it to commend , we be leave frustrated that any radical transformation will be at well delay until a second instalment , after Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s review . the hon . gentleman reference Sir Jon Cunliffe , and I thank the Secretary of State for commission the review . do the hon . Gentleman agree that Sir Jon ' s review should look across the United Kingdom , because Northern Ireland Water be both a government - own company and a non - departmental public body and I assure the House that the water quality in Northern Ireland , especially in Lough Neagh , be nothing to be celebrate either . should not Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s review look at how all body regulate their water system , so they serve the public ? I think two thing . I respect the devolution settlement and think it be important that we do not overstep what we be call to do today . I also , however , agree that the waterway of all corner of our United Kingdom be precious and must be protect . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that point . to conclude , the job of the Liberal Democrats be to be the constructive opposition in this place , and to now use Committee stage to inject into the Bill the ambition and urgency that we feel be currently lack . to million of people out there who care deeply about our waterway , the problem be obvious and so be many of the solution . we call on the Government to accept the amendment that we will table in Committee in good faith , to act ambitiously and comprehensively , and to do so without delay . I call Helena Dollimore , a member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . I declare an interest as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on water pollution . today , we will vote on a landmark piece of legislation to begin the clean - up of our water industry . the measure in the Bill ramp up regulation , ban boss ' bonus and ensure independent monitor on every sewage outlet , link to a system of automatic severe fine . make no mistake : these be the big increase in power for a generation , and the change can not come soon enough for my constituency . before I come to the devastating impact that Southern Water have unleash on my constituency , I pay tribute to the campaigner and community volunteer who expose the scandal . it be only because of their determination and detective work that we have understand the scale of the problem . volunteer from the clean water action group in Hastings go out test the water three time a week . I also thank our local East Sussex Fire and Rescue Service , who time after time be the first on the scene when sewage be spill out on to the street . the community that I represent in Hastings and Rye be furious at the conduct of Southern Water . from Camber Sands to Old Roar Gill , sewage have pour on to our beach and beauty spot . our way of life as a seaside community have be compromise . our appeal as a tourist destination have be tarnish and livelihood have be ruin . many people have get sick from swim in the sea , or catch ear or eye infection . People have end up in hospital with sickness , and one constituent even attribute her deafness in one ear to an infection that she catch swim in the sea . another constituent in Winchelsea beach tell I that he can not grow vegetable because for the last decade his back garden have be regularly flood with sewage . a family in West St Leonards have to move out of their home for month and live in temporary accommodation after sewage flood their home . the town centre in Hastings be flood twice in one year . business and resident who have just move back into redecorate home see their home flood all over again under a foot of sewage water . they then have to be rescue by firefighter . it be shameful . it have cost our community million in damage , as well as the untold human cost of have possession , property and livelihood ruin . in the vast majority of case , resident and business in my constituency have not be properly compensate by Southern Water . we have be leave on our own to pick up the piece , all while Southern Water ' s boss have be allow to collect a huge bonus . that money should be spend on fix broken pipe , not reward failure . I commend the hon . Lady on her excellent speech , and her celebration of local campaigner . in my constituency , Thames Water be responsible for numerous sewage leak and a great stink that linger over our market town of Camberley last summer . do she agree that the Bill need to provide for tough regulation , and great transparency and accountability , to ensure that water company put health and safety and water quality over shareholder dividend ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . one of the thing in the Bill that I really welcome be that it will stop water company mark their own homework . the monitor on every outlet will report independently to the Government , so that we can issue automatic severe fine — a big change and step forward . if huge amount of sewage and major flooding in my constituency be not enough for one community to endure , we have also suffer major water outage at the hand of Southern Water . the tap have run dry twice in recent memory . in September 2023 , 10 , 000 resident of Rye be leave without water for up to nine day . in May this year , in Hastings , 30 , 000 people be leave without water for five day . it cause huge disruption and have a major impact on local business . it have to stop . the Conservatives have 14 year to update the compensation guideline for such incident , and fail to act . because of the action that this Labour Government be take , if future incident occur , my constituent will be eligible for great compensation from Southern Water . the Conservatives let the water company off the hook for far too long . instead of force the industry to invest in crumble infrastructure , customer ' money be instead siphon off into shareholder payout and bonus . my constituent now face record water bill because of that failure . we inherit a crumble water system from the conservative party , and this Labour Government be act to clean up the mess . this government be act where the previous Conservative Government fail , to end the disgraceful behaviour of the water company and their boss with this Bill . this be just the start of the change . I thank the Government for announce an independent commission on the water sector to see what more they can do to ensure that the water sector work for customer and the environment . I will work very hard to ensure that the voice of my resident in Hastings , Rye and the village be hear as part of that process . I welcome this Government ' s continuation of the previous Government ' s monitor plan , and the fine that we have ask to be impose upon water company . I be the MP for Beaconsfield , Marlow and the south Bucks village , which be a beautiful area along the Thames . we be also on a floodplain , and I have spend year work with the Farnham sewage action group , the Little Marlow sewage treatment work , the community and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to ensure that we be monitor our storm overflow discharge . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to increase the capital spend on sewage treatment work . that be a wonderful and welcome sign , particularly when two of my sewage treatment work be approve only in July , when Labour take over . that be great news , which I be very happy to see . the Farnham and Little Marlow treatment work be due to be complete in 2026 and 2028 . it be a wonderful opportunity for the Government to put their money where their mouth be , and invest in the future of the Thames in Marlow and Farnham . will the Minister confirm that that investment will be maintain and hold Thames Water to account on delivery to that timescale ? I have hear Ministers speak from the Dispatch Box of the Government ' s eagerness to commit to this , and I be present two wonderful example that we can monitor in the month to come . my constituency be home to not only beautiful Marlow but aquatic sport along the Thames , which many young people enjoy . we have the Marlow rowing club and the Borlase rowing club , as well as the Little Marlow treatment centre , which be one of the most heavily fine sewage overflow and treatment centre in the country . aquatic sport be practise in that area . I would welcome the Minister ' s consideration of an amendment that I will table in Committee and on Report to ensure that the statutory requirement for area where aquatic sport be practise be the same as the requirement for bathing area , so that when young people , particularly secondary school child , row along the Thames they can rest assure of the water quality . I hope that this will be at the centre of cross - party support for ensure that place such as the Thames , Marlow , Beaconsfield , Farnham and Burnham be look at in a holistic way , and that the capital spend need to invest and upgrade our sewage system will be commit to from the Dispatch Box today . I would welcome any further information from the Minister . today , we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the foundation of our national park . the Peak District , where I live , the majority of which be in High Peak , be our original national park and still the good , but our beautiful nature - rich river that run through the Peak District and High Peak be be soil by raw sewage . High Peak be one of the top 50 constituency that have be worst affect by sewage be dump into our river . in 2023 , the River Derwent and the River Wye suffer thousand of sewage overflow , contribute to water pollution and ecological harm , yet the water company boss responsible reward themselves with outrageous bonus . in 2022 , the United Utilities chief executive officer receive £ 3 . 2 million of remuneration , include an annual bonus of nearly £ 1 million . Severn Trent , which be fine £ 2 million for reckless pollution , still lift its bonus to £ 3 . 36 million . we must stop rewarding failure . at the general election , end the pollution of High Peak ' s river and water be a top priority . it be raise in all six — yes , six — husting I do , often more than once . in High Peak , the pumping of raw sewage into our precious river have become emblematic of the utter chaos and failure of the past 14 year , so I greatly welcome the measure in the Bill . the independent monitoring of all outlet will provide great transparency for my constituent and will enable the regulator to hold United Utilities and Severn Trent to account . combine with the increase ability of the Environment Agency to bring forward criminal charge against lawbreaking water executive with tough penalty , include up to two year ' imprisonment , and new power for Ofwat to ban bonus unless water boss meet high standard of protect our precious environment , that should concentrate the mind of executive at Severn Trent and United Utilities . it be a Labour Government that create our national park 75 year ago today , and it be a Labour Government that be take the step to protect the river that run through those park for the next 75 year . I welcome many of the measure in the Bill and will focus in the time available on the real action our constituent need from Government to bring our sewage network up to date . too often and for too long , our constituent have pay the price for a failure of forward planning by the water industry . in September , my constituency be the victim of exceptional flooding . in the aftermath , as we seek to learn lesson , many story involve raw sewage come up into people ' s home and garden and flow down their street in place such as Harlington , Barton - le - Clay and Greenfield , as excess surface water overwhelm the sewage system . no one , be they in Mid Bedfordshire or anywhere else in our country , should see a storm cloud overhead and fear that they will end up ankle deep in sewage — not in the 21st century . I say this be a problem of forward planning because a shocking example of industry neglect during the flooding come from new town Wixams . the town be still be build out , with construction begin this century , and yet the flooding overwhelm the wastewater and sewage infrastructure , which could not cope with the amount of water be discharge into it . thousand more home will be build in Wixams and across Mid Bedfordshire over the come year . we must do more to force the water industry to ensure that those home be serve by infrastructure that be fit for purpose and climate resilient . the previous Government recognise that we have a victorian sewage network , and they step up requirement for water company to invest in improve our infrastructure . this government must be similarly ambitious . I welcome clause 4 , which talk of the importance of nature - base solution in drainage and sewage management plan , build on the previous Government ' s work in their plan for water . in 2023 , Chichester experience 990 spill last over 17 , 000 hour . it be an environmental scandal and a public health crisis . as the Secretary of State say in his opening comment , it be time to clean up our water once and for all , and I welcome the Bill . do the hon . Member agree that nature - base solution , such as wetland , will play a vital role in reduce spill and can be bring in quickly , but only if the regulation allow ? I absolutely agree on the importance of nature - base solution , and those solution be talk about frequently in my community and , I be sure , in community across the country . they be not necessarily speak about five or 10 year ago , but we have a real opportunity to make a difference if we focus and deliver on nature - base solution . we must go much far in this area to ensure that all our town and city be build to absorb water . on implement sustainable urban drainage system , I mention this previously to the Minister for Water , and I will keep bang on about it . we must bring into force schedule 3 of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 — I recognise that the Act be from 2010 and a lot have happen since then — and take much strong action to ensure that drain do not become block . one way we could tackle the problem of abstraction and , indeed , flooding be by back project like the Bedford to Milton Keynes waterway park , which would run through the Marston Vale in Mid Bedfordshire and help channel water to where it be most need . I hope the Government will give that project the support it need . I be pleased to be call to speak on this crucial piece of legislation , which will directly benefit the people of Nuneaton . for far too long , water company have operate with little accountability , prioritise profit and shareholder payout instead of the wellbeing and community impact that be so important to my resident . the people of Nuneaton be tired of our river be pollute with raw sewage , and they be tired of be ignore and see a lack of action from water company such as Severn Trent . in 2023 there be 66 sewage dump , total 464 hour of raw sewage flow into our river . that be a staggering 38 % increase in the number of dump and a 60 % increase in the duration compare with the year before . now we be tell that in Nuneaton we will be expect to take 60 % additional sewage to accommodate for Hinckley . rather than investment support the overflow infrastructure we have , the infrastructure will only be use to accommodate our neighbour . despite Severn Trent fail to meet its compliance target and risk factor increase , we be see record - break profit of nearly £ 3 million , and there be no benefit to the people of Nuneaton . I have meet Severn Trent , and I be interested in the positive narrative that we have hear , but that be incongruent with the experience of my resident , especially those who live on Church Lane in Weddington , for whom sewage flow down their street and contaminate solid in their garden have become all too commonplace . I support the Bill to block bonus for executive who oversee the environmental damage , and to bring criminal charge for those who persistently break environmental law . my constituency be home to two significant river : the Hogsmill , a pristine chalk stream ; and the River Mole , which tragically rank as one of the most polluted river in the country . the River Mole , stretch 50 mile from Sussex to the Thames , be more than a waterway ; it be a much - love amenity for family , walker and wildlife . yet it be fight for its life . sewage discharge surpass 2023 level by November this year , with over 12 , 500 hour of raw sewage pollute the river through storm overflow . that be unacceptable . the crisis have be cause by water company ' mismanagement , enable by Ofwat ' s failure to hold they to account . Thames Water have prioritise shareholder dividend over infrastructure investment , and Ofwat have issue no fine for sewage treatment failure since 2021 — an extraordinary regulatory failure . the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill introduce vital provision to block bonus for water company executive and to impose fine . although these measure be welcome , they do not go far enough . ofwat be a regulator that do not work , and it must be replace with a new regulator with power to ban bonus comprehensively , to revoke licence for poor performance and to set legally bind sewage target . bonus must be block not just for pollution , but for persistent leak , miss investment target and fail infrastructure improvement . the liberal Democrats would ensure that the company be hold accountable for all their failure , not just the most egregious one . we must also rethink water company ownership . since privatisation , those company have accumulate £ 68 billion of debt , while pay out £ 70 billion in dividend . customer be now pay for that debt in their bill . in a public - benefit model operate as not for profit , debt - free mutual would reinvest all profit into upgrade our water system . that model work . Denmark , whose not - for - profit utility have some of the low water loss , rank among the top EU country for bathing water quality . close to home , I commend the River Mole river watch group in my constituency . those dedicated volunteer test water quality and report pollution online . their work be extraordinary , but they should not have to do it alone . water company must publish detailed and transparent datum on sewage spill so that the public understand the full extent of the problem . such local group deserve more than praise ; they need a seat at the table . those environmental champion should have representation on water company board , bring community - drive accountability to decision making . my constituent and the rest of the public be sick of see their river turn into open sewer . they be sick of pay high water bill to subsidise shareholder profit and executive bonus while vital investment be neglect . the Government must go far by replace Ofwat with a new regulator that have strong power , expand the ban on bonus , empower local community , and reorganise water company into public benefit organisation . this be our chance to turn the tide on water mismanagement and restore our river to health . the people of Epsom and Ewell , and indeed of the whole country , deserve no less . last year , more than 100 people meet at South bay in Scarborough to protest about the consistently poor water quality . ironically , as they prepare to enter the water , they be approach by lifeguard who tell they that it be not safe to do so because of the high level of sewage . the event be organise by Surfers Against Sewage . one of its member , Steve , who be a constituent of mine , have have to close his surfing business because the water quality be so poor that he can not guarantee the health and wellbeing of his surf student . I also have the fantastic Wave Project in my constituency of Scarborough and Whitby . that charity be commit to improve child ' s mental health and wellbee through its award - win surf therapy programme , which enable child and young people to build confidence and overcome anxiety barrier through surfing . however , it regularly have to cancel session at short notice because of the poor water quality , which cause immense upset for youngster and their family . away from my beautiful beach , the River Esk start its 28 - mile journey in Westerdale in the north York moor and flow eastward to Whitby . it be the only major river in Yorkshire that flow directly into the North sea , and it be both commercially and ecologically important . it support Atlantic salmon , sea trout and the endangered freshwater pearl mussel . however , pollution be destroy the health of the River Esk . eighteen storm overflow — 17 of which be in my constituency — discharge into the river . in 2023 there be 637 sewage spill . the bad offender be Ruswarp sewage pumping station , which have 126 spill . such discharge release pollutant , which reduce water quality and cause harm to aquatic life . that be particularly concern during the salmon spawn season , as it can affect fish egg and juvenile fish . Yorkshire Water have stand back and let that happen . it be hardly surprising that , after Yorkshire Water be fine £ 47 million for historical sewage spill and poor customer service , campaign group continue to call on its chief executive to repay the £ 371 , 000 bonus that she receive last year . where be the accountability ? official figure show that 87 % of river in Yorkshire and the Humber fail to achieve a good ecological standard . it can not be right that people ' s health and livelihood , as well as our precious environment , have be so severely impact by privatised company that put profit before people and the planet . I welcome the measure in this ambitious Bill , especially the move to boost accountability , which will mean that the chief executive of Yorkshire Water will no long receive her bonus unless she meet high standard in protect the environment and customer . the new requirement on the water company to report on the frequency and duration of all emergency storm overflow within an hour of a discharge take place will tell we the real story for the first time . only then can we draw a line under this disgraceful era of profit at any cost , and move towards fix the break water industry . it be absolutely right and correct that we debate these measure to improve the water industry . in the light of continue concern over Thames Water and Southern Water , action must be take to protect our water service . it be important to take a step back and put the debate into its proper context . we must appreciate that most of the UK have a combine sewerage system , mean that both rainwater and wastewater be carry in the same pipe , before wastewater go into a sewage treatment plant . if , as in recent week , we have exceedingly heavy rainfall , capacity can be exceed and water company be allow to spill untreated wastewater into river and sea — otherwise , there be a risk of flood people ' s home with waste . there have be an issue of company do that when there have be no rain — know as a dry spill — which be not acceptable . although it have be miscommunicate by other party and by the Secretary of State , the previous Government take the vital step of require storm overflow to be monitor . as hon . friend have say , that monitoring increase from 7 % in 2010 to 100 % in 2024 . it have enable discussion and plan to fix the poor behaviour of the water company . the overflow be always happen , but the previous Government ' s monitoring catch the poor behaviour and highlight the action that be require . will the hon . Lady give way ? will the hon . Lady give way ? not just yet . no monitoring do not mean that water be clean , as the Secretary of State seem to suggest . one must be faithful to the fact . we will support this Bill ' s Second reading because it include many measure that the previous Government establish — for example , company that pollute the environment can be hit with unlimited fine , and water boss can be ban from receive bonus if their company commit serious criminal breach . however , some measure need to be amend , include to maintain the previous Government ' s water restoration fund . why have that not be continue ? we must ensure that we focus on our water infrastructure , which be largely out of date . poor maintenance cause leakage , and poor capacity lead to sewage overflow . tackle those problem will require investment and innovation . ofwat must use its power more effectively to well monitor performance and enforce standard in a timely fashion . although I acknowledge the Bill ' s focus on penalty for water company , we must ensure that incentive for investment and change be in place for the year to come . I welcome the Bill as a first step towards broad change across the water sector to ensure that it work for people . the number of complaint about water and the management of our waterway have be a key concern for people in North West Leicestershire for some time , but resident feel that water company have not act while bill have predictably continue to rise . when I be a member of Leicestershire county council ' s environment and climate change scrutiny committee , I push for the water company in Leicestershire to attend our committee , which they do — eventually — in November 2022 . they give a great presentation with some glossy picture , but their suggestion , which look nice on paper , simply have not materialise . my impression be that there be a severe lack of transparency and accountability among those company about the damage that they be do to our water system , which follow the previous Conservative Government ' s unwillingness to act and push they to clear up their mess . the long - term priority for the water company have be shareholder and executive pay . they have be take bonus while pollute our waterway , and increase debt without increase investment . there be sign of recovery , however . the Bill have not yet become law , but there have be a shift in Severn Trent Water ' s willingness to clear up its mess in North West Leicestershire , and its hard - work employee have appear to start engage with we . that must continue if we be to challenge the constant impact that poor water quality be have on our community and our environment . water issue be a constant in my casework file , as they be for so many hon . member , and local people have be in touch to report dry weather outflow . they be ask , quite rightly , about the legitimacy of outflow in dry weather and of large - volume release during wet condition . what be clear be that those release have be seriously damage for our community . let I bring home an example of the importance of this Bill . I have be work with a group of resident in Whitwick in my constituency who have a share garden space next to the Grace Dieu brook , where they have a storm drain . that storm drain regularly release effluent , and when I visit recently , despite have have a crew to clear up , it be clear that there be still debris . while the water in the brook have be test immediately after the spill and find to be within a normal range , the residual smell remain — it just clung — mean that those resident be unable to use their personal space . there be another site in Donington le Heath , which be home to the most - use sewer outflow in my constituency . I be invite to see a resident who have a smallholde close by . they have a storm drain on their land alongside the River Sence , a particularly beautiful watercourse . when I visit early in the year , they have just have an effluent release , and despite 10 bag of rubbish have be clear from the area , there be still a clear path of debris from the spill . this keep happen , and it have to stop . those be just two case in which our local community have bear the impact of poor decision making and a lack of investment in infrastructure . they should not have to manage untreated waste while the exec get their bonus — community should not have to continue to deal with this . this Bill put fail water company under special measure and send a clear message that this Government be ready to take the action necessary to fix our foundation . it be the start we need to deliver the transformational change that our water system desperately need . it be an honour to speak on such an important issue , one that affect my coastal constituency daily . sewage discharge , water quality , and the related issue of flooding be among the most pressing concern for my constituent . the Environment Agency ' s bathing water classification , update on 26 November , reveal alarming decline in water quality . Bognor Regis East ' s classification drop from good to sufficient , while Aldwick ' s remain poor for the third consecutive year . abuse of our water system be have a serious impact on public health , our vital tourism industry and our natural environment . however , by focus only on water company and sewage , this Bill deliver an oversimplified approach . there be an urgent need for holistic and comprehensive solution to protect our water , prevent flooding and tackle sewage discharge . this issue be not simply about water company and sewage , but the Bill fall into the trap of focus solely on they . in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton , the situation be compound by recur flooding , which affect business and home from Shripney Road and Durban Road on the boundary of the constituency to Fish Lane and Rope Walk in Aldwick and Littlehampton respectively . that flooding be exacerbate by extensive house building on our flood plain and by the local topography . without infrastructure improvement and an integrated action plan , sewage outflow will continue to blight our coastline . combine , these issue be cause a decline in our tourism industry , devastation to home and business , increase in insurance premium and significant financial loss for affected local business and employer . this be not a mild inconvenience for a few sea swimmer — although I count myself among their number — but something that affect our entire area . as such , the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill be a timely opportunity to accelerate essential environmental improvement . I be concern , though , that the Government be not sufficiently grasp this opportunity . the absence of robust enforcement measure for propose reporting be particularly concern . clause 2 require water company to " prepare and publish " annual pollution incident reduction plan . that be a step towards great accountability , which I welcome . however , the clause lack enforceability and thus any purpose , as it mandate only the preparation and publication of those plan , not their implementation . as such , will the Government amend the Bill to ensure the delivery of measure set out in those report and provide the necessary enforcement power ? my constituent , and the public , be weary of empty promise on water quality . it be essential that this Bill mandate that water company deliver measurable improvement , not meaningless promise . the hon . Lady and I share concern about the safety and health of our seawater . I just want to clarify for she that we have accept the Lords amendment in relation to the enforcement plan , and be ensure that those plan will be on the face of the Bill . I thank the hon . Lady for clarify that point . let the Bill pass without that amendment would have be a disservice , so I be delighted to hear it . in my constituency , we do not have a single unpollute watercourse . last year , on the Conservative Government ' s watch , Severn Trent Water , the company that cover my constituency , be responsible for over 60 , 000 sewage overflow nationally . in Stoke - on - Trent South , we have have 24 site pollute by 337 sewage dump last a total of 1 , 570 hour . I have speak many time about the impact of flooding and sewage pollution in my constituency . I have highlight the ongoing battle of the village of Upper Tean to combat frequent flooding and pollution of the River Tean . Upper Tean ' s village recreation space , with a child ' s playground , be frequently flood with sewage - contaminate water . the people of Upper Tean be good people , and be willing to work with all agency via the newly create Tean flood action group to positively rectify these problem . indeed , the most recent meeting have a positive outcome , in that a particular outflow will have CCTV monitoring instal to address the issue of false sensor recording and to address poor communication within Severn Trent regard the reporting of incident . through local meeting with the people who be affect and with local water representative who come in good faith , we can make change . follow on from our experience in Upper Tean , I can not stress enough the importance of listen to consumer and empower the citizen voice , so I be pleased to note that new section 35b of the Water Industry Act 1991 will require that consumer be involve in the water company ' decision - make process , and I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement regard the requirement for customer panel . I want to ensure that guideline be lay out so that such panel be not tick - box consultation that can be manipulate with clever question . they must be truly participatory , with diverse input , offer constructive criticism and solution that make a difference in real life . we must always put the people and their voice at the heart of decision making . in Tean , after much prolong pressure , we have see that we can develop positive local relationship between representative of water company and citizen . however , the same can not be say of the chief exec , who seem rather resistant to meeting or even reply personally to email , but be quite happy to take her bonus . as such , I welcome the Bill and its focus on empower regulator to hold the water company and their chief executive to account , include by block bonus , bring criminal charge and be able to implement automatic , severe fine . People be feed up of be take for mug — cash cow to deliver payday for shareholder . we bathe in sewage while shareholder and exec be shower with dividend and bonus . this Bill be just the start of this Labour Government ' s journey to hold those company to account , bring an end to the profiteering and the decay of our water infrastructure , and to turn the tide on pollution . it should be support by member on all side of the House , and I hope it sail through today . I call Ellie Chowns , a member of the Select Committee . I declare an interest as a found co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on water pollution . as the Minister well know , I have a deep and abide interest in the theme of water pollution . I gently remind she that agricultural run - off be the primary source of water pollution in my constituency , and I welcome the constructive conversation we have on that topic last week . today , I will talk about the broad topic of the Bill . water company have extract £ 85 billion of value from our water industry since privatisation — that be an extraordinary figure — and their flagrant abuse of our river , sea and lake be a stain on our country , literally as well as figuratively . some 30 % of all water bill now go on debt servicing and dividend , and this be money that should be go towards maintain and improve our water infrastructure and service . Thames Water , Southern Water and South East Water have all have their credit rating downgrade , mean that about a third of bill payer in England and Wales be now pay their bill to junk - rate company , which again be extraordinary . as company ' finance get bad , new debt get more expensive to service , and where do the money come from ? the money come from bill payer . it be clear for all to see that the interest of water company shareholder and the interest of the public be at odd . it be not possible to use our water as a vehicle for maximum short - term profit and at the same time to deliver safe , reliable , affordable drinking water and a clean environment . one come at the expense of the other . will the hon . member give way ? I be really sorry , but I will not give way because I know so many member want to come in . in my view and that of my Green colleague , the only way to run a water system in the interest of people and nature be to take away the profit motive entirely . it should never have be allow near our water industry in the first place . any step to end this culture of impunity in the water industry be very welcome . unfortunately , the measure in this Bill be , in my view , largely to look nice in headline , and they be maybe a bit of an attempt to look busy . I say that gently , but I do think we need to go far . in fact , the majority of the british public agree with I : 82 % of the british public believe that we should have water in public ownership . I challenge the Government to take up that mantle — that mandate — from the british public to do the right thing , and to take the profit motive out of water entirely . I always believe in talk about area of common ground , and I recognise that multiple element of this Bill be positive step . I will , with my colleague , be support it . I welcome the extension of monitoring requirement for sewage overflow , and I welcome the requirement for more customer involvement in decision making , which I would like to see extend to worker representation as well . I welcome the encouragement for company to consider much more use of nature - base solution , and I would love to see this extend even far . to be honest , however , what we have see with the financial mess that the company be in be the complete failure of the model of privatisation . we need to do more than just tinker at the edge . the Government ' s water commission will not even be allow to consider the question of public ownership , so it will hunt high and low for solution while continue to kick the can down the road . be it not time that the Minister face the reality that profit in water have fail , and to do what the majority of the british public want , which be to bring our water and sewage utility back into public ownership ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for invite I to speak . like many colleague , I stand on the bank of my local river , the River Trent , during the general election campaign , and look out over the murky water , I promise resident that the next Government would change a broken system . this broken system have enable our water quality to drop to the point where only 14 % of river and lake in England have a good ecological status , accord to the Environment Agency . since be elect , hundred of resident of Rushcliffe have contact I to say they be concerned about our broken water and sewerage system , describe it as symptomatic of a break Britain . I be therefore pleased that today ' s Bill mark the start of a significant turnaround process for the health of our nation ' s water . local to Rushcliffe , the datum have be consistently go in the wrong direction . there be 471 sewage dump in my constituency in 2022 , and this more than double to 958 sewage dump in 2023 . the absolute number of sewage dump be of course a crude indicator , but , sadly , the cumulative impact have also grow from 3 , 733 hour in 2022 to 10 , 774 hour in 2023 . the direct impact on Rushcliffe resident be palpable , especially in village such as East Leake that be susceptible to flooding , which frequently include raw sewage . I welcome the work that Severn Trent be start to take by upgrade a nearby treatment work , double processing capacity by the end of March 2025 . however , for many resident this investment be far too late and should have be make year ago , in an era when water company be cream off profit and fail to act as true and honest custodian of the national water network . to that end , I encourage the Secretary of State and his team to think carefully about who we want to be the future custodian of our water network . if water and sewage company go under , I believe we — the state — should always be prepared to step in to offer a genuine public alternative to hedge fund and the like . as with rail and energy , we should be prepared to start a process whereby the state once again offer to play a more active role in run basic universal service , challenge private sector organisation that have happily pay out dividend while allow 3 billion litre of water every day to be lose through leaky pipe . fundamentally , I believe it be the right of each and every one of we to be able to enjoy our beautiful river , lake and sea without the fear of get sick . so on behalf of my constituent in Rushcliffe , I welcome the many positive measure in this Bill as it seek to enhance enforcement power and to start clean up our water for good . move forwards , there should be no more stick plaster fix , because , quite frankly , the very least that my constituent deserve be a water and sewage system fit for the 21st century . I thank the Government for introduce this Bill and the Minister for Water for meet I last week . this be a vital issue , not least for my constituent in Exmouth and Exeter East . across my constituency , from Cranbrook to Exmouth , we have feel the full force of South West Water ' s neglectful and harmful behaviour . this year across the county of Devon , we have experience the full gamut of the damaging effect of a water company that be cry out to be reform , be it by legal or regulatory tightening . from cryptosporidium parasite outbreak in the Brixham area to the closure of beach in Exmouth , our county have have enough . our local wellbeing , health and economy have be significantly impact , and our beautiful home be start to gain a national reputation for all the wrong reason . we have a responsibility to ensure that the Bill be as effective and strong as it can possibly be , and that mean listen carefully to voice from all part of the House . Most Members will be familiar with the long history of this issue , so I will not relitigate argument that have be make already , but it be important to reiterate that this be not a problem that have emerge overnight . we have collectively drop the ball on this issue — from the last Labour Government under Blair and Brown to the Lib Dem - conservative coalition and the last government , we be all in part complicit — [ interruption . ] I think that be a very fair point . this have happen over many decade , and I would very much like to reiterate that point to Labour Members . although it be absolutely right that we strive to end the unacceptable practice of sewage discharge , we must confront the hard truth that we can not transform these crumble system overnight without disastrous consequence , such as sewage back up into people ' s home , on to our street and into our community . that be why we must commit ourselves to the long haul . this will require sustained investment , careful planning and clear accountability , not short - term fix or political point scoring . the hon . Member mention the cryptosporidium incident in May in Brixham in my constituency , where 17 , 000 house be affect by contaminate water . a boil water notice be enforce for eight week , and many of my constituent be still suffer from that . I say to the Minister that , when the Drinking Water Inspectorate report next year , I hope the water company will be force to pay proper compensation , because it would appear that its negligence and not maintain its facility over the past decade be possibly one of the cause of the contamination . I thank the hon . member for raise those point ; this issue have affect our county , and I hope that member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee raise it as fast as possible , to ensure that South West Water be hold accountable and place in front of they to answer question about how that outbreak happen . I reiterate that our constituent deserve a solution that be ambitious but achievable . it be under the previous Government that the scale of the issue be truly identify — a point that have be raise repeatedly this evening . the hon . member be correct : many conservative Members have raise the issue of monitoring , and they have repeatedly mention storm overflow . will he put on record how many emergency overflow be currently be monitor ? this be a major issue . we be talk about the sewage network for an entire country . the last government push for storm overflow to be look at , and I be glad that the Bill , which have be bring forward by this government , will look at emergency overflow . as we know , the landmark Environment Act 2021 give regulator strong power to tackle pollution and ensure great transparency , hold water company and polluter accountable . the last government also set legally bind target to improve water quality , reduce pollution and enhance biodiversity , while the plan for water take a systematic , local , catchment - base approach , require significant investment in storm overflow improvement . that be decisive action to hold water company to account , link performance to shareholder payment , ban bonus for water boss responsible for serious breach , and empower regulator to impose unlimited financial penalty on polluter . in Eastbourne , we be bless with 94 beach , but our water quality have drop from " excellent " in 2015 , to a low of " satisfactory " under the last government . at the same time , Southern Water have make significant amount of money — with more than £ 2 . 9 billion in dividend , and the chief executive receive £ 183 , 000 in bonus this year and a salary of £ 765 , 000 . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the last Government allow that to happen , and will he apologise for what they allow to happen to our water industry ? the hon . Gentleman mention 2015 , so let I return to the point I just make : these problem do not happen overnight . he will know that the Liberal Democrats be in coalition with the Conservatives until 2015 . the previous Government take decisive action to hold water company accountable , link performance to shareholder payout , ban bonus for water boss responsible for serious breach , and empower regulator to impose unlimited financial penalty on polluter . those action lay a solid foundation , and it be important to note that many element of the Bill mirror work already undertake by the last government . for example , the confiscation of bonus from water company executive responsible for pollution be already in motion under exist framework . many measure outline in the Bill be already be implement and do not require primary legislation . to make real , last improvement , we need a more wide - range strategy , and I hope the Government will listen carefully to constructive criticism , because my constituent in Exmouth and Exeter East , like so many other , deserve nothing less . as I have emphasise , we be commit to collaboration on this issue , to ensure that we make vital progress on limit water pollution . I rise to speak in support of a crucial and overdue piece of legislation : a Bill to regulate , govern , and establish special administration measure for water company in the United Kingdom . this be not just a matter of environmental stewardship ; it be a matter of public trust , local accountability , and the health of all our community . this issue matter to all our constituent , include mine , who have express deep frustration with the way that water company be manage . in 2023 alone , we witness 1 , 011 sewage dump in the Medway catchment area — in a tidal area know for its site of special scientific interest and RSPB nature reserve . time and again we see news of raw sewage be discharge into our waterway , result in devastating pollution level . watershed investigation have uncover a cocktail of nearly 500 chemical in our river , and find that the River Medway — a chalk aquifer , no less — be the joint worst most polluted river in the UK . accord to the Angling Trust , chemical detect include ketamine and fluoranthene — a very toxic compound use in pet flea repellent , which undiluted have be describe as " Novichok for honeybee " , with one drop able to kill thousand and thousand of insect . I think of those who walk along the riverbank , work on our river , enjoy our park , or fish in our water , unaware of the devastating pollution level that be allow under the previous Government . how can we explain to the people of Medway , or anywhere in the UK , that such practice be allow to continue ? over the last 14 year we have see weaken regulation , a failure to invest in infrastructure , and the turning of a blind eye as water boss pocket million of pound in bonus . it be a kind of perverse performance relate pay where , it seem to many , the high the discharge , the great the bonus . some may argue that privatised water company be critical for investment and efficiency , that profit motive encourage innovation , and that regulation would stifle growth and deter private sector involvement . it be , however , welcome that there be some element of cross - party consensus that privatise , low - regulation industry have fail this nation . the truth lie in responsible action . we need strong Government regulation to ensure that water company meet their obligation , balance with the empowerment of local government and community to oversee and protect their resource . the current state of our river be a disgrace and we need change . let we introduce strict penalty for water company that fail to meet environmental standard , and push for great investment in our infrastructure , include significant upgrade to waste water plant . the Bill be about more than just fix a broken system ; it be about create a sustainable future for our child . cleaner , green river mean healthy community , strong governance mean fair water bill and well service , and a protect environment mean that we can safeguard not just our wonderful wildlife , but also the quality of life for generation to come . it be absurd to think that in 21st - century Britain , human waste be be dump in major waterway , and that we have allow that to be the status quo . to my colleague in the Chamber tonight I say : support this Bill . to the people of Medway and beyond , who I represent , I say : demand well from those entrust with your most vital resource . together , we can build a system that work for everyone , not just for shareholder , but for family , business and the environment . as the MP for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe , I be in the honourable position of represent a constituency contain three mighty river : the River Usk , the River Tawe , and the world famous River Wye all rise in the hill and mountain of Mid Wales and pass through this giant constituency . all the water in the Wye ought to be consider a national treasure , stretch as it do across some of the most picturesque landscape , provide habitat for an array of wildlife , and support multiple community through tourism and recreation . yet sadly , the Rive Wye be die at an astonishing speed . that be why strengthen the regulation of our water company be understandably a major priority for my constituent . I know that my constituent be disgust by the reality of sewage dumping , as many of they have tell I so . wild swimmer , angler and kayaker be just three group affect by sewage dumping and the knock - on impact that have on our local economy , yet in Wales , the environmental regulator — Natural Resources Wales — be chronically underfunde and have face decade of budget and staffing cut by the Welsh Labour Government . those cut have leave it unable to fulfil its role , mean that the current legislation be not be properly enforce . NRW request a minimum of 50 extra staff member just to do its job properly , and 250 additional staff member to do it well . the expansion of regulatory power must be match with the necessary resource to strengthen the regulator ' s hand and to enable enforcement . despite the River Wye be probably the most famous case of river pollution in the UK , it might surprise some to learn that the other two river in my constituency , the Usk and the Tawe , be in even bad health , with all three sadly place in the top 30 most sewage - fill river in the UK . while I welcome the legislation strengthen the monitoring of emergency overflow , it be important to recognise that citizen scientist , such as the Friends of the Upper Wye and save the River Usk , have be do most of the legwork when it come to tell we what exactly be in our river and where particular area of concern be . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for community group to have the right to representation on water company board , so that we bring back that local expertise on board . I refer to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be co - chair of the all - party parliamentary water group and chair of the all - party parliamentary group for sustainable flood and drought management . if our forest be the lung of the environment , then our river , stream and other watercourse be its vein and artery . they carry vital nutrient and element around their catchment , ensure that our flora and fauna flourish and thrive . globally , we know that all specie be currently die out at rate more than 100 time the normal evolutionary rate of extinction . locally , the picture be just as bleak . accord to the most recent Rivers Trust report , " the State of our Rivers " , no single stretch of river in England or Northern Ireland be in good overall health , and toxic chemical persist in every single stretch of English river . pollution in river come from a variety of source , include trade , agriculture , highway , riparian asset and sewage asset , among other . whether we be tackle flood , drought or pollution , there be a need to bring all agency with a responsibility for manage our water together to plan for and deliver a sustainable water future . there have never be so much public focus on the water industry . recent year have see : the renew emergence of open - water swimming in a time where people explore their local environment much more during covid ; the growth of citizen science increase the available datum on offer ; campaign group make a huge breakthrough in highlight the challenge we face ; and , increase datum transparency show there to be real problem . the public have lose faith in the industry and in the Government ' s ability to regulate it , with widespread concern about under - investment in infrastructure and unacceptable level of pollution . the measure in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill be the start of fulfil the Government ' s ambition for the water sector as a whole . I be proud that within day of take up Government , the Labour party start to work on this Bill . I be equally pleased that an independent commission lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe have be announce to commence a full end - to - end review of the water sector regulation system . this Bill deliver on the Government ' s promise to ensure that water company be hold to account in deliver service and environmental obligation , and in do so begin to rebuild much - need trust . while there have be much discussion today on combine sewer overflow and other sewage discharge , I be keen to highlight the type of intervention that will be need to clean up our river and sea , and the focus on nature - base solution in the Bill as part of the drainage water management plan . Grey infrastructure , new pipe , pump , sewer and additional treatment capacity will always be part of the equation , but as we look to become more sustainable , I be encourage to see reference to nature - base solution and their future role in the Bill . I completely agree with the hon . member about natural solution . the urban wastewater treatment directive seem to be completely counterintuitive . in Wareham in my constituency , we have a chemical - base removal system that cost £ 10 million and deliver a 10 tonne a year saving , whereas a nature - base solution be calculate to deliver 90 tonne a year , but at a fraction of the cost . do he agree that that be definitely the way to go ? I definitely agree that we require a whole range of different type of solution , include blue - green and the more traditional . blue - green infrastructure come from work with the landscape and environment to create a new type of asset that can not only reduce flood risk or store water to be use later in time of drought , but attenuate pollutant before they go into watercourse and improve water quality at source . such infrastructure include the creation of pond and rain garden , rewilding , woodland , mini - forest and wetland , build in buffer strip , hedgerow and green roof as part of new development , and engage in smart soil management . importantly , those have wider - reach opportunity , too . they bring opportunity for new skill and new job , they facilitate nature recovery , and they provide a means of education for young adult . the Government need to respond fast with immediate action . they have do just that with the Bill . they need to ensure that , in parallel , a sustainable view of the whole water sector regulatory regime be take . they have do that with the announcement of the commission . that be the difference that a Labour Government make . on behalf of my constituent , I fully support the Bill . Diolch , Madam Dirprwy Lefarydd . with deteriorate water standard while customer pay high and high bill , the water sector ' s overhaul be no doubt overdue . tougher restriction on water company that have pay eye - water bonus as untreated sewage flow into our river be welcome . we have hear number from various constituency , but listen to this , bois : my constituency of Caerfyrddin see the most sewage dump in 2023 , with over 11 , 000 dump last over 115 , 000 hour . good reporting may be a factor , but the track record of not - for - profit d ŵ r Cymru be not fantastic : it be fine £ 40 million for mislead over poor performance , while Ofwat have to block £ 163 , 000 of undeserved customer - fund bonus , so further regulation be necessary and overdue . however , I have some concern regard the Bill . first , River Action and Surfers Against Sewage have highlight Ofwat ' s continued duty to make reasonable return for water company , prioritise profit over environmental and public health . profit - wise , Storm Darragh clearly show in west Wales that supply become an issue when power be lose . therefore , infrastructure investment be sorely need . secondly , the extension of storm overflow monitor to cover emergency overflow be a good idea in principle , but to make a real difference we must move away from unreliable and limited event - duration monitor to a well monitoring model that provide more insightful datum on volume and discharge type . some of those be already in motion . the Teifi nutrient monitor project use high - frequency monitor sensor and multi - sonde along the Teifi river . support by citizen science , datum be collect four time a day , track pollution and identify source , which will guide action plan for the Teifi , Tywi and Cleddau river . when I be a county councillor on Carmarthenshire county council , I be delighted to be part of the nutrient management team put those sonde monitor into the river and promote nature - base solution . Plaid Cymru believe that Wales should have full control over its water resource . much of the Bill ' s provision be already devolve matter , subject to Senedd consent . accord to a recent statement , Labour Senedd Members believe that it be in the " good interest of Wales " for the UK Parliament sometimes to legislate in devolved area , include where that enable policy objective to be most effectively achieve . the sanctity of Welsh devolution should never be vulnerable to the whim of any London party politic , and that Labour policy do cause long - term concern . the aim of the Bill be welcome , and the current scandal of water quality must be resolve . however , we need to ensure that the Bill adequately prioritise environmental and public health without undermine devolution . rise — Order . I be go to reduce the time limit to three minute , after the next speaker . I call Andrew Pakes . phew ! thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ Laughter . ] I be privileged to speak on Second reading of a Bill that be of huge interest to my constituent and the country . after 14 year , the new Government have inherit record level of illegal sewage dumping in our river , lake and sea , an Environment Agency budget halve since 2010 , crumble infrastructure , with burst pipe and record spill , and unaccountable water company . it be time to change that . it be time to hold our water company to account and to start fix the problem . that be why this Government have make the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill a priority . we need immediate action to end the disgraceful behaviour of water company and their unruly boss . we have more than 3 , 000 hour of sewage pour into our river in my constituency alone last year . a lot of sewage come out of the last government , but certainly not the sewage we be talk about tonight . after our sewage discharge , Anglian Water , which I know be many member ’ provider , belatedly have to pay £ 38 million to Ofwat . the year before , Anglian Water ' s chief executive receive a £ 1 . 3 million package in pay and bonus , despite the company ' s poor performance . despite oversee the catastrophic failure , water chief executive have pay themselves more than £ 41 million in bonus and incentive since 2010 . it get bad : Thames Water ' s boss take a £ 195 , 000 bonus at the end of March for just three month ' work . that be the unacceptable face of unaccountable privatisation . little wonder , then , that constituent write to I be angry and that people have so little faith in the power of accountability and regulation , when so little be do by the last Government . I ask Ofwat these question directly when it appear before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee recently . the answer be want . that be why the Bill be so need , and why minister have bring it forward so quickly . it set out new power to make water company accountable , to ban bonus for ceo and senior leader unless high standard be meet , and criminal liability for water executive , and it set out a new approach to ensure that water company live up to their environmental obligation and serve the public good . I want to put on record my thank to those public servant who have be fight hard against the water company , despite the cut of the last decade : those in the Environment Agency , the public servant in our water utility , and member of GMB , Unison and Prospect who know what look after our water and nature be really about . the Bill tread where the last Government fail to go . let we be clear about the Conservatives ' legacy : they fail to invest in broken infrastructure and let consumer money be spend irresponsibly on bonus and shareholder payout . the Bill rightly call time on that unruly behaviour . it begin to restore trust in the management of our waterway and in public service and accountable regulation . I commend the Bill . the role of opposition be to scrutinise the Government , but as a Member of Parliament I will always be willing to support change in the law that my constituent have be call for . this legislation represent an opportunity to start rebuild our water infrastructure and improve water security for future generation , and we need to get it right . I want to help make sure that it be not simply cosmetic , or contain measure that do not require primary legislation or thing that be already be progress by the previous Government . I wish to offer some constructive thought . like many member , I have local issue . in the past week alone , I have be out with the Eton Wick Waterways Group to inspect the effluent overflow of Slough treatment work in the Boveney ditch , which I be work on with my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , and with resident in the Boltons in Windsor to see the Bourne ditch fill with sewage in a residential area . the south - east have suffer disproportionately ; in fact , 90 % of serious pollution incident be cause by four company , with Thames Water — the main provider in my constituency — responsible for more than 17 last year . that be inexcusable . I welcome that Thames Water have finally announce upgrade to Slough treatment work follow sewage overflow in Berkshire . they will include new tank , new technology and a new pipeline . it now need to be make to guarantee the plan improvement project at Slough , which will reduce future sewage spill and provide clean effluent enter the waterway around Eton Wick . I hope for the Minister ' s support to hold Thames Water to account on that . however , as other in this House have raise , such a change be a drop in the ocean since the entire infrastructure system be outdate and creak . it need long - term and sustained investment of ten of billion of pound over decade , and we must face the reality that that will come only with increase to consumer bill . if we expect the public to tolerate price increase , we need a regulator that work . in my view , Ofwat ' s determination to keep bill low for consumer have expose short - term thinking that have lead only to high bill in future . with additional funding , water company — particularly Thames Water — must show customer that the money be go directly to infrastructure upgrade . I be aware of my lack of time , Madam Deputy Speaker . I join with Surfers Against Sewage and River Action , which have be work with member across this House to encourage the Government to make clean water one of Ofwat ' s legal duty , and to give it the tooth it need . I welcome the fact that this issue be be consider in the Chamber , and I hope that everybody in this House will join I in scrutinise Ofwat ' s implementation of the power grant to it in the Bill , hope the Government will make clean water one of Ofwat ' s legal duty and look for Ministers ' support in hold Thames Water to account at the Slough sewage treatment work . the water be key to Bournemouth ' s appeal as the most stunningly beautiful town in our country . [ interruption . ] contentious . unsurprisingly , Bournemouth East resident be absolutely horrify by the untreated sewage that be force on our town . Jacqueline from Boscombe have have to make she " wild and Free " surf therapy session surf - free because of sewage in the sea , mean child and young people whose mental health could be significantly improve be let down again . Sarah from Charminster , who be a regular sea swimmer to manage her long covid symptom , be now worried about the impact of this pollution on her health and on the natural environment . Gareth in Muscliff be clear that : " something really must be do about this and soon for the sake of our health and future . " Sarah in Southbourne tell I that : " this be not the only environmental crisis that we face , but focus on it , and ensure improvement , would be regard as major success . " while the Conservatives may have let the water company off the hook , the public do not let the conservative off the hook , and at the last election we see change . we be see more of that change today with this Bill , which my constituent will warmly welcome . last week I meet the people who run Holdenhurst water recycling centre to see the significant upgrade that have receive nearly £ 30 million of investment , which I support . I have also recently meet the chief executive officer of Wessex Water to discuss the pollution that we be experience locally , and I be pleased to see significant investment that will improve Bournemouth ' s ability to manage the automatic operation of storm overflow . however , we can do more . we can change how we see storm overflow so that we no long see they as a sewage problem ; we instead can see they as a rain management problem . if we reimagine rainwater as a resource to be capture where it land , reuse wherever possible and remove from foul water sewage head to the water recycling centre , we can do a well job . I welcome the Bill because it will give the Environment Agency and Ofwat , which be central to protect our waterway , the power and the support that they need . the EA will now have new power to bring forward criminal charge against law - break water executive , and water company will now bear the cost of enforcement action take in response to their failing . the introduction of fixed and automatic penalty will make it quick and easy for the ea to fine water company that commit offence . furthermore , for the first time there will be a requirement to publish real - time datum on all emergency overflow , so that the public and regulator can see what be actually go on . I close by pay tribute to the work of Surfers Against Sewage , and to Christchurch Harbour and Marine Society and Vanessa Ricketts , who have do so much locally to hold the hope while we wait for a new Government to bring forward this Bill . I be proud that this Labour Government be commit to clean up the mess that the Conservatives let our waterway become . the Bill be the first step towards do that . river be the natural vein of Britain , with the lifeblood of our ecosystem flow through they . no matter their width , depth or length , we derive so much from our river . yet accord to research from the Rivers Trust , not a single stretch of river in my constituency be in good overall health . it be a tragedy as much as it be a scandal — plain and simple . the conservative party have leave a legacy of unacceptable sewage outflow into our waterway , with a total failure to limit those who be responsible for it . my constituency have the privilege of be the home of the Leander rowing club , which enter many team in the Henley royal regatta . in June this year , the organiser of that prestigious international event have to issue guidance to participant on how to minimise the risk of illness due to " proximity to polluted water " . that should not be happen in 2024 . when I visit the Thames Water sewage treatment work at Wargrave , I meet enthusiastic and knowledgeable employee , but the scale of the neglect of our sewage treatment capacity be very clear to see . Thames Water boss have fail to keep pace with the storm overflow problem , exacerbate by housebuilde , a fail network of pipe and climate change . now they want to increase bill by 59 % . the regulator really must not let that happen . I be leave with the distinct impression at Wargrave that , sadly , the company have little idea of how to fix the problem and no expectation of do so within a reasonable timeframe . Thames Water be currently limp from cash crisis to cash crisis , accrue billion more in debt . it seem to be get bad before it can get well . I be aware that I be get near to my three minute . can the Minister guarantee that my constituent will not be burden by the potential failure of Thames Water ? can the Minister explain how he intend to ensure that investment in Wokingham ' s sewerage system be guarantee ? South West Water discharge sewage for nearly 540 , 000 hour in 2023 , which be apparently an 83 % rise compare with 2022 . it be get so much bad . I therefore welcome the measure in the Bill . they be desperately need and can not come soon enough for place such as Cornwall , which have suffer from sewage spill for far too long . we all know how important our sea and river be for our health and wellbeing , and for our ecosystem and our economy . in rural and coastal area , they touch on almost every aspect of our life . in my constituency and across Cornwall we have an amazing community of sea swimmer and surfer who brave the water all year round , but who be frequently unable to go out due to sewage alert , or who become infected and get illness if they do . they have be campaign tirelessly on water quality for year . constituent write to I daily about sewage spill on our beach . in the 2024 annual bathing water classification release a few week ago , Porthluney in my constituency have its water quality designate as poor . during Storm Bert , sewage overflow be record in the River Carnon , River Penryn , Pill Creek , River Fal and many other river in my constituency . it affect not just our resident but our visitor too . tourism be important to Cornwall . People come from all over the world to visit our coastline , but they be deter when they see raw sewage on the beach . sewage dump in the River Fal be part of what be destroy traditional industry such as the shellfish industry . in May 2023 , 11 shellfish site in Cornwall be force to close due to dangerously high level of E . coli . we have see problem with our infrastructure this summer . a burst water main lead to a loss of water pressure across a swathe of Cornwall and many people lose their water , include the hospital . compensation be very limited and hard to obtain . the Bill deliver on the Government ' s manifesto commitment to hold the water company to account . it give the Environment Agency more resource to bring criminal charge and fine , and make they quick and easy to enforce . the standard of proof will change and be low , and automatic penalty will be extend . ofwat will have great power to halt performance - relate pay bonus . the Bill also introduce real - time monitoring of every sewage outlet and full transparency . along with the announcement on investment in infrastructure make in July and the upcoming comprehensive water review , the Bill form part of a plan for a long - term fundamental comprehensive restructuring of our water industry . we will go much far . I welcome the Bill . I believe that this Bill be disappointing . it almost totally ignore the financial of the company , and that be the root of the problem . unless we fix the financial , we will not fix the problem . Thames Water , for example , have £ 17 billion of debt , and it be currently expect to have a furth £ 3 billion of debt by the end of January . if that happen , it will cost Thames Water an extra £ 334 million a year , which mean that 46 % of the bill of every single one of the 15 million bill payer will be fund interest payment — before the £ 20 billion of debt that the company will have be pay down . how do that make sense ? how do we get this work again ? that be not the route to a solution . the reason Thames Water be not in special administration be that , officially , it be unable , or unlikely to be able , to pay its debt . you do not need a GCSE in business to know that if a company currently have £ 16 billion of debt and £ 1 . 2 billion of cash flow , it be unlikely to be able to pay its debt . I believe that our Government be run scared . they be worried about be sue by big bad american vulture investor , and that be why they be not put Thames Water into the special administration regime — a regime that be explicitly set up for exactly this purpose . I say to the Government , " please , do not let Ofwat approve a price rise for Thames Water . put the company into special administration and start to deal with the problem , because we will not be able to deal with they until we deal with the financial . " I have one minute and 17 second in which to ask the Government to steal some of these idea . yes , they should reform the three regulator , by put they all together . in respect of clause 10 and 11 , why should consumer pay for financial loss follow Government financial assistance ? why should not creditor and shareholder pay for those loss ? it seem pretty weird to I . pollution baseline should be establish for each catchment ; we should get that straight . Environment Agency permit for individual sewage treatment work should be reset . the capacity for each STW should be establish , and the agency ' s Environment Agency 3 . 0 multipli should be apply to every one of they . there should also be volumetric flow meter , for which clause 3 do not provide — we be not get they . I invite member to read clause 3 themselves . we be get event duration monitor but not flow meter , and that mean we be back in the same place where we have be for the last 14 year . we need flow meter , so please can we insist on that ? finally , we need to haircut the debt : we need to get that £ 20 billion down to £ 5 billion . that should be the key focus , because then we will be back on a stable footing and able to invest as we need to . it be a pleasure to welcome this much - need legislation . a couple of week ago , I visit Bitterne Park primary school , which be just across the River Itchen from Southern Water ' s treatment work . I meet the school ' s Eco Warriors , an inspire group of schoolchildren who be passionate about improve their environment . they tell I that the stench from the treatment work sometimes make they feel so ill that they can not play outside at lunchtime . that be what happen when there be more than 1 , 000 hour of sewage dumping , as there be last year alone — a 350 % increase on the year before . those child express their outrage , and their desire for change , in a way that grown - up be often less good at . let we be clear : this be not something that our child should have to accept as normal . that be why I be campaign for bathing water status for the Itchen , and I would like to work with Ministers to see how we can clean up the river and achieve that . this be a big local issue , and one that I be determined to try to help resolve , but — as have be make plain by the excellent contribution of other member — there be no doubt that it be also a national issue , and that private water company have be treat our river with utter contempt . let we not forget how we get here : 14 year of conservative failure have leave we with crumble water infrastructure and record level of pollution . that be the legacy . instead of address the crisis , Conservative Ministers bury the scale of the problem , hiding sewage datum and shielding water company from scrutiny . that be why I welcome the tough new penalty in the Bill , which will ban unjustifiable and undeserved bonus . we have see and hear how water company have pile up debt and demand bail - out from the taxpayer , all the while pay bumper bonus — more than £ 41 million since 2020 — to executive who fail to meet the most basic standard of competence . meanwhile , it be my constituent and those of other colleague here who have pay the price — in high water bill , and in the frustration of see a river that they treasure pollute by negligence . the Bill draw a line under those waste year . that be what we mean when we say we be a Government of service , because we be not afraid to stand up to corporate interest . we be here in service of the british people . that mean long - term investment in our water network and ensure that every penny spend benefit customer and the environment , not just shareholder . I be grateful to the group that have campaign to keep these issue on the agenda . now it be over to this Government of service to finish the job and hold those responsible to account . I declare an interest : my spouse be a water economist . as we have hear from many hon . member this evening , urgent action be need to clean up our river and waterway , include the Avon , Alne , Arrow and Stour in my constituency of Stratford - on - Avon . those river and brook be central to our community , our local environment and wildlife , and our sporting and recreational activity , yet they be be poison . water be a common good , and the water company , include Severn Trent Water , have show utter disregard for our most precious natural resource . this Bill be a welcome step , but much more need to be do . across the UK , untreated sewage be discharge more than 600 , 000 time last year . it be a national disgrace . in my constituency , spill happen for a total duration of nearly 16 , 700 hour in 2023 . I thank the citizen science champion in my constituency and the many campaign group , from Shipstone and Stratford to Bidford and Alcester , for shine a light on this crisis . without their tireless work , much of the devastation would remain hidden . I also pay tribute to our many rural community , who have experience repeat sewage flooding and be literally leave to clean up the mess . although resident step up , the previous Conservative Government fail to hold the water company to account . shareholder profit should not be prioritise over public health and environmental protection . I urge the Government to consider the Liberal Democrats ’ proposal to abolish Ofwat and replace it with a clean water authority that have real tooth — a regulator that focus on environmental performance , demand real - time sewage pollution datum , and enforce legally bind target to eliminate sewage spill by 2030 . the Bill must also mandate investment in sewage and drainage infrastructure . this Bill be a chance to take real , systemic action to clean up our waterway . however , the Government must strengthen the propose legislation in more radical way so that we can give our constituent the clean and thriving waterway they all deserve . accord to the late Government figure , the number of sewage dump along my constituency ' s small coastline rise from 100 in 2022 to 206 last year — a more than 100 % increase . across the country , this be the legacy of the last Conservative Government . they fail to get to grip with hold our water company to account , and we and our constituent have suffer , with polluted waterway cause swimmer and those take part in water sport to become ill — never mind the impact it have have on the natural environment . I be tell by Anglian Water that the sewage dumping figure will be significantly low in 2024 , but we will wait to see they publish . an immediate positive move by this Labour Government have be to require real - time monitoring , so that the public and the regulator have full transparency on where water spill be happen within an hour of they happen . there will be nowhere to hide . in Southend , both I and my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) have recommence hold water quality summit . they be a means of bring together stakeholder and interested member of the public to discuss current issue and challenge , from pollution and sewage dump to regular flooding . I hope our water quality summit will serve as a good exemplar of how the propose new customer panel could work across the country . my conservative predecessor , the former MP for Southend West , have the right intention when she start the local water summit during her term . however , she be restrict by the failure of her own Government to put in place sufficient regulation and consequence for the water company to really fix this issue . in October 2021 , the Conservatives vote against a Lords amendment to the Environment Bill that would have place a legal duty on water company to reduce sewage discharge into our river . in January last year , 292 conservative — ironically include my predecessor — vote to give water company 15 year to clean up their act as part of the environment target regulation . yes , 15 year ! have run my own business and work in senior role in other business , I know the standard require to consider award bonus . underperform on a key metric would not , and should not , be overlook when consider the payment of bonus . the same will now properly apply to the water industry , and so it should . I be proud of this Bill and I be proud to support it . the Labour Government have do more in our first few month to tackle this scourge than the Conservatives do in the last 14 year . this government be serious about bring the change that be so urgently need to end the scandal of water pollution once and for all . few of the natural feature of the Taunton and Wellington constituency in Somerset be as value as the River Tone , which go through the constituency . like my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , I welcome this Bill but wish it would go far . in particular , we need a much strong regulator . as long as Ofwat have a duty to protect profit and return for shareholder but not to protect the environment , it will be more of a tame kitten than a watchdog . when it come to manage the quality of our water and our waterway , profiteer surely have no place in the equation , which be why we want to see privatised water company replace with not - for - profit company , which work very effectively in Denmark . water company also need to be hold to account for long when it come to invest in the infrastructure that be need . from prepare and submit its bathing water status application — with a lot of support from the hard - work volunteer of the friend of French Weir Park — I know how much go into designate a bathing water such as the Tone in Taunton . I therefore urge the Minister , in the context of the ongoing parallel bathing water consultation — to completely end automatic de - designation after five year . Wessex Water and the Environment Agency have make it clear that we can get improvement in water quality in the Tone in five year — and who would disagree with improve the tone , Madam Deputy Speaker ? — but they be unlikely to be enough to protect its designation unless more time be available . we in Taunton also strongly disagree with make new designation dependent on already have sufficiently clean bathing water quality . the whole reason that community be seek to get their designation be to stimulate that improvement . as Surfers Against Sewage have point out , make quality a prerequisite rather than the goal to be establish would have prevent almost all the current inland bathing water from be designate . also , we would oppose allow bathing season to be curtail . I hope the Minister will also say something about bring in water restoration grant , which would have the dual advantage of support the drive to eliminate phosphate from the Somerset level and moor and improve river and bathing water quality . have canvass the view of my fellow swimmer the other day , I know how much people want to see the river improve . we therefore need to give rural community the support they need for water restoration . we need to establish a tough regulator bind by legal duty to protect the environment , not just profit , and give bathing water enough time to be bring up to standard without the threat of de - designation and be push into the " too difficult " pile . our river and our environment — order . I call Julie Minns . on the eve of this year ' s general election , hundred of Carlisle resident wake to find that brown water be come out of their tap . some might describe the stain water as a metaphor for 14 year of conservative failure but , for most of my resident , it be just another reminder of the poor service they have have to endure from the local water company . indeed , in the last two week alone , there have be 56 sewage discharge within a 5 - mile radius of Carlisle , last a total of 152 hour . this not only have the impact of harm local wildlife , as we have already hear this evening , but it also make our river a no - go zone for local . as someone who enjoy cold - water swimming , I find it a tragedy that our river , which have define our great border city for century , have be reduce to the personal pollute pool of United Utilities . yet our system reward this behaviour . just last month , the company announce hundred of million in profit while seek to far increase customer bill by an astounding 32 % . bonus just shy of £ 1 . 5 million be dole out to two executive , on top of salary already top £ 1 million . this be the state of water regulation in this country — one where pollute , not the polluter , pay . at least , that be the state of affair under the previous Government , but not any more . I be delighted that this Bill be give we the power finally to hold the water company to account , finally to block bonus to underperform water boss , finally to levy fine that genuinely deter pollute our waterway , and finally to stop these company mark their own homework by introduce proper independent monitoring of every outlet . the water industry be a wild west under the last government , and I for one be delighted that there be a new sheriff in town . I welcome this legislation and this debate . nothing typify this Government ' s job of clean up the mess leave after 14 year of the last lot than the need to clean sewage out of our river . the need in Yorkshire be great than in many other place . Yorkshire Water hold one of the bad record for sewage discharge among water company . last year , it spill sewage into river across our region 464 , 056 time . of those , a staggering 4 , 125 discharge be into the River Calder , which run through my Calder Valley constituency , make it one of the most dump - in river in the country . both number have increase since the previous year , yet Nicola Shaw , the chief executive of Yorkshire Water , take home just over £ 1 million in remuneration , £ 300 , 000 of which be a bonus . to put that in context , she earn £ 2 . 22 per sewage spill into a Yorkshire river last year . if that be a reward for good performance , one dread to think what poor performance look like . in Calder Valley , and across the country , we have have enough , and this Bill rightly reflect that . this Bill give we an opportunity to hold water boss and their company to account , not only through fine and clear regulation but through measure that will allow the criminal prosecution of irresponsible boss . I welcome this Bill , but I also recognise that it be just a start , an opening step to get our water system back on track . as we continue with our whole - system review , I hope Ministers will also look at the broad impact of water company , include the cavalier way in which they dig up our road for week on end . indeed , a road in Hebden Bridge and Todmorden have be dig up to mend a sewer , but business be suffer while little work be do over the weekend . more pertinently , in Calder Valley early result from study by Yorkshire Water into what it can do to alleviate flooding show that in area like mine , water company and their asset have a real impact on flooding , so I hope my hon . friend on the Front Bench will consider look at the broad role of water company . in closing , after 14 year of Tory failure pollute river across Calder Valley , I be proud to support the Bill and end the sewage scandal . we be serious about our environment , get our country back on track and clean up the mess leave by the Opposition . in my rural constituency of Shrewsbury , we have England ' s long river , the magnificent Severn . it flow through our historic town centre and meander through our outlying village , but my constituent be run out of patience with the current privatised water company , Severn Trent Water . it be fail its customer , fail the environment and , accord to last week ' s " Panorama " , fail financially . under the last government , the whole water industry become a haven for profiteer . in the last four year , the boss of Severn Trent Water have be pay £ 13 million for " performance relate pay " , yet in 2023 there be over 2 , 000 incident of sewage dumping in my constituency alone — an increase of 42 % on the previous year . my resident have their own word for that kind of performance , and they be not pretty . to top that off , we have now hear that customer ’ bill be set to rise by 46 % over the next five year . this be supposedly justify by investment in the long overdue infrastructure upgrade that we need in order to reduce the sewage pollution spill into our river . however , company continue pay out dividend to their shareholder , while customer be aggrieve because they have be pay out for year while the pollution go ahead . quite rightly , customer feel that they be pay twice to solve the problem . have there ever be a bad case of pay more and get less ? although we in this House welcome today ' s watershed Bill , our resident be much more concerned with a different bill : the average annual water bill for Severn Trent Water customer be set to rise from £ 439 to £ 580 . that be not acceptable and will be unaffordable for many , but it be also terrible value for money , give the disgraceful pollution of our river that have see not just public health problem from infection as serious as E . coli , but devastating impact on our ecology , include deplete fish , bird and flora along the bank of our river , which be now strew with wet wipe and sanitary product instead of wildlife . in Shrewsbury we have a very large and active campaign group call up Sewage Creek , which be ably lead by Claire Kirby . many of the group be citizen scientist who give up their time to test the water quality and highlight the deterioration of our most prized asset . on behalf of my frustrated resident and our otherwise beautiful river , I urge the Minister to not only bring forward the criminal sanction and strong regulation in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , but to ensure that the independent water commission into the water sector hold no bar in its examination of the privatised water industry , and explore all avenue to clean up our water and shake up the sector . the protection of our beach , river and bathing water be incredibly important to my constituency , as hon . member may expect I to say , as I represent a coastal constituency . my friend , family and I be regular swimmer in Weston - super - Mare ' s fantastic Marine Lake , so my interest be personal as well as professional . Marine Lake be a 200 - metre infinity lake , say to be the large of its kind in the world . it be a phenomenal asset to our community and I be proud of the work of so many to restore it over recent year . have Marine Lake in Weston mean that despite we have the second high tidal range in the world — find the sea in Weston can sometimes be a bit tricky — we have access to bathing water whenever we need it . so many people from across the country have memory of spend summer on the beach , with ice cream , fish and chip and swimming in the sea , create memory with family and friend ; that be part of the very fabric of our town . in recent year the decline in water quality have damage that fabric , and compromise access and enjoyment . as the previous Government leave office , the number of bathing water classify as poor across the UK be at a record high . distressingly , that still include Weston , Uphill and Sand Bay beach — that have a profound impact on our town . there be so much anxiety among local resident and business about something that we should have certainty about : that it be safe to swim in our bathing water . many have also experience the negative impact that it have have on tourism and hospitality — a vital source of employment to so many in Weston . the degradation of water quality in recent year must be reverse . town like mine need this Government to deliver where the previous Government do not . I be grateful for the investigation by the Environment Agency and the local bathing water steering group of the cause of the poor water quality , but there be still no smoking gun . I have be reassure that over the next 12 month those investigation will be ramp up to investigate sewage from Avonmouth as the possible cause , but time be critical , and the need of my constituent for answer and swift action can not be overstate . I have write to the Minister to outline the urgency , and request the bold action for Weston - super - mare . I pay tribute to the amazing work of volunteer in Weston — first , the legendary Debbie apte of Cleaner Coastlines . Debbie have be a personal inspiration for year because of her tireless advocacy , evidence - lead approach and ability to motivate a community to action . I also pay tribute to the fantastic Mudlarks community , who work so hard to maintain Marine Lake , and the litter picker such as Sophie and Jules from Sophie ' s Super Litter Picking , and the many individual who walk our street and coastline daily to prevent rubbish from end up in our waterway . the Bill be so welcome in Weston , and I be especially pleased to see how quickly the Government have act on this issue . it be clear to I and many campaigner in my constituency that strong power to properly hold water company to account be critical if we be to change behaviour and get they to do their job . I be hopeful that , along with clean up our bathing water , the Bill will go a long way towards restore the trust that have be so sadly lose . anyone who have visit Shipley will know that the River Aire and the River Wharfe flow through the beautiful dale countryside of my Yorkshire constituency , and indeed that of my neighbour , the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) . I grow up paddle in the Wharfe , and as an adult I enjoy a regular dip . it be therefore a bit of a shock to learn that raw sewage be be regularly dump in our river — some 1 , 753 time in 2023 . I do not think that that be quite top of the poop , but it be not far off . I pay tribute to the local activist who have do so much to expose this scandal and campaign to protect our environment . the Ilkley Clean River Group have be at the forefront of the campaign to end the sewage scandal . form in 2018 , through citizen science it have show that untreated sewage be be dump in our river even at time of low rainfall . the group work very hard to secure bathing status in 2020 — the Wharfe be the first river to do so in the UK — and the group highlight the public health risk to bather , but it should not have need brave local resident to challenge the water company . the regulator have fail in their job . that be why I be so proud that the Bill will require more frequent and accurate monitoring , and introduce fix monetary penalty so that company do not get away with it any long . under the last government , our water be catastrophically mismanage . regulation be weaken , there be a failure to invest in infrastructure , and record level of sewage be pump into our river and sea . meanwhile , boss cream off the profit and pay themselves in bonus . along with other , I call on the Yorkshire Water chief executive officer to hand back her £ 371 , 000 bonus . it be clear that change be need , and change be come with the Bill . it be long overdue that water company be hold to account and that we put in place the mechanism to restrict executive bonus . many of my constituent , though , feel dismayed that it fall on they to pay the price , quite literally , for water company ' failure . customer bill be due to rise 18 % next year in the Shipley constituency . despite have no debt when privatise in 1990 , Yorkshire Water have since accrue £ 6 . 5 billion of debt ; today 19 % of customer bill be spend just on service that debt . under - investment have leave my constituency with creak infrastructure , high bill and polluted river . I be pleased that the Government have set up an independent commission on water . to undertake fundamental reform , it be vital that that include in - depth analysis of the finance and governance structure . our once beautiful river , such as the Wharfe and Aire , be now awash with sewage , and our water infrastructure be leak . I welcome the Bill , and the measure that it set out to deal with the crisis in our water industry . I rise to support the Bill because we basically live in a monopoly . we live in a situation where a group of company control an incredibly essential part of everyday life — a part that we need . as a consumer , if I do not like the service I receive , I can go somewhere else ; I can not do that with water . if I want to shop around for a well deal , I can do that ; I can not do that with water . the water company know that — they know that they hold a monopoly on the service they provide — so they think they can get away with raise bill , fail to invest , and plough money into share and dividend . their time have come , and the Bill be apt . the new Government be provide new opportunity to change the way in which we look at water and consider it as a fundamental part of everyday life . but as I have be listen to the debate this afternoon , I start to wonder whether the Bill be actually need , because if we listen to the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) or for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) , apparently everything in the Bill have already be do , and we be fine . I struggle to reconcile what the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) say in her opening speech — about this government copy what the previous Government do in the Environment Act — with the rather gory description of the effluence and other material find in waterway across the country . I represent Stoke - on - Trent — the clue be in the name ; it be the river on which we sit — and I know thousand of hour of sewage have be discharge into that river . equivalent amount of sewage be also be pump into place like the Fowlea brook and the Lyme brook by a water company that be seemingly more worried about protect its dividend than the health of the people I have be send here to represent . how do we get to this point , if everything the last Government do be apparently fine ? the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) sum it up perfectly when he talk about the importance of regulation . actually , we have gap when it come to regulation — it be an enforcement gap . we have great regulation on paper that say , " you will do this , and this will happen " and " there will be penalty and fine " , but the previous Government systematically over time reduce the amount of funding available to the regulatory organisation , so that their enforcement become reactionary to event . accord to the Conservatives , the reason why we have 100 % monitoring of discharge be not because of some benevolent act by a party that care about the environment ; it be because the previous Government get bored and tired of the community group around the country campaign on the issue , and they think , " we ' ll do something about it . " I find it no coincidence that that happen this year — in an election year . I hope that the Minister will talk more about how regulatory enforcement will happen , and about how we will provide the power and the money that be need . I represent Morecambe and Lunesdale , where beauty surround and health abound . it be the home of Morecambe bay and the River Lune — just two of the fantastic waterway that contribute to the health and enjoyment of my constituent . however , under the last Conservative Government , those waterway have be fill with pollution . early , the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , mention want some fact . well , here ' s a fact for she : in 2023 alone , Morecambe and Lunesdale see 13 , 500 hour of sewage discharge . that this be allow to happen be an absolute scandal . water boss be allow to walk off with huge bonus while people in Morecambe bay find themselves swim in raw sewage . again and again , the law have be flout by water company and not enforce by the Conservatives , but now we have a Labour Government who will not only enforce the law , but strengthen it . Morecambe bay be an ecologically special place . it be a site of special scientific interest and a bird watcher ' s paradise , as a sanctuary for over 240 , 000 bird each year . unfortunately , we do not have time for all the interesting bird fact that I prepare . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] in Arnside and Silverdale , we have — will my hon . friend tell I about her local aviary life ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . between March and July , rare and decline bird nesting specie , such as the ring plover , oystercatcher and the Arctic tern lie their egg on Morecambe bay ' s shore . Morecambe bay be also a vital stopover point for migrate bird , offer they a place to rest and refuel . little tern , with their distinctive face - marking and beak , will travel 20 , 000 mile on their migratory journey so that they can breed in Morecambe bay . in Arnside and Silverdale , we have our beautiful natural landscape and wetland , which be home to diverse wildlife . those habitat rely on robust water quality standard to thrive , make the provision in the Bill absolutely crucial for my constituency . my constituent have make it clear to I that they expect the Government to take action where the Conservatives fail . the Bill ' s key measure include block executive bonus for company that pollute our waterway , impose automatic fine for offence , prosecute company director for negligence , and mandate the real - time monitoring of overflow . the Bill also require company to publish annual pollution reduction plan , and strengthen oversight by regulator . only through those measure can we protect waterway and keep Morecambe bay and the River Lune clean for future generation . I urge colleague across the Chamber to support the Bill . I be so pleased to be here to discuss the Bill . water quality be one of the big issue face resident across my constituency , particularly in relation to pollution level , and under - investment in infrastructure have reduce flood resilience in our residential area . in Southend , our beach have lose some of their blue flag in recent month , particularly in Thorpe bay , because of surface water drainage issue . constituent experience significant flooding every time there be increase rainfall . some constituent live around the Thorpe Hall Avenue area have try to sell up , and have be force to sell for up to 15 % below the market value as a direct consequence of flooding . that be simply not good enough , and it be why I be so pleased to be here to support the most significant increase in enforcement and regulation of the water industry in a decade . since my election , I have co - chair the Southend water quality summit with my good and hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) . we have be try to bring all community stakeholder back together again to put additional pressure on Anglian Water . the summit be hold quarterly , and be an opportunity for resident , water company and campaign group such as Southend Against Sewage to come together to raise issue and concern . that model empower community , and I be proud that our city have be a pioneer in hold water company to account . after all , Southend be a coastal community , so water quality be completely intertwine with daily life . our beautiful coastline be a natural asset that need to be protect — frankly , they be one of our superpower — but , frustratingly , our water quality do not always meet the standard that resident , visitor and tourist deserve . however , the Bill mean that we can look forward to clean river , lake , sea and estuary . not only will it drive up performance by block bonus for executive and impose automatic and severe fine for those who pollute our waterway , but it will introduce criminal charge for persistent lawbreaker . in 2022 , £ 9 . 7 million be pay out in executive bonus — that be simply not good enough . for too long , water quality and food resilience have be overlook . nowhere be that more apparent than in Southend - on - Sea . suffice it to say that I wholeheartedly welcome the Bill as a first step in the transformation of the water industry . on new year ' s day , I will , like many people in Thanet , take part in a bracing dash into the sea to raise money for worthwhile cause . however , we should not take our health in our hand as we do so . swimming should be good for you , not a risky adventure because of pollution . good governance might seem a long way away from the delight of sea swimming , yet we can not safely have one without the other . water play such a huge role in the history and culture of East Thanet , not least because of our fantastic beach . Margate can claim to be the first English seaside resort — I know there be other , but we be the first . for 250 year , people have come to all three of our town in East Thanet to enjoy the stunning scenery , breathe the fabulous fresh air and swim in the sea , but as a very wise business owner in my constituency tell I , " People don ' t come here to paddle in poo . " that be why I and my constituent welcome this Bill , as a great starting point in clean up the mess that the conservative party have leave — not a figurative mess , but a literal one in our waterway . for year , the privatised water industry have be under - investing and over - pollute while pay itself million of pound in bonus . that be why the action that the Government be take through this Bill be extremely welcome and long need . resident in Broadstairs have have to cope with their water be off during a red warning for extreme heat and in the middle of winter in the run - up to Christmas , manage on bottled water , because of infrastructure failure . bill be up , the quality of service be down , the environment be in ruin , and big bonus fuel by gorge on debt be be pay . the water company argue that they may need to pay more in salary bonus to get the good people in — well , if this be the good they can get , I will be ask for my money back . we need a fundamental change in the way our water system be run , and critically , we need more accountability to bring that change about . I know that the Secretary of State do not want to be spend his time run the water company . I do not want he spend his time do that either — that be not what I be suggest . I recommend that this accountability should be local , rather than at the national level . the new independent water commission could look into how we fine water company that break the rule by explore the possibility of take company stock from they instead of money . we could put any stock in a trust hold on behalf of local billpayer , who would then benefit . it may be some time before we can be confident about enjoy our water again — some time before our river and sea be restore to full health — but I believe this Bill will start the process of clean up our water industry . it be crucial that we get the future governance right , so that our constituent can feel confident that paddle in poo be a thing of the past . last year , Derbyshire Dales have the 32nd high number of sewage dump out of our 650 constituency . shockingly , the number of sewage dump increase by 26 % between 2022 and 2023 , with sewage spill in Derbyshire Dales last a staggering 28 , 488 hour . that be equivalent to 3 . 3 year of continuous pollution . it be clear that the previous Government fail to protect our water and , in do so , endanger the environment , local industry and human health . much of derbyshire Dales lie within the Peak District national park , which be renowned for its stunning scenery and landscape . however , high level of pollution be threaten the biodiversity of England ' s national park : as of today , only 39 % of river and 15 % of lake within those park remain in an ecologically healthy state . in Derbyshire Dales , that pollution be damage some of our most scenic river ; for example , just 6 % of the surface water of the River Dove currently meet good ecological standard . not only be that pollution a threat to biodiversity , but it be a danger to public health , as people who swim , canoe or enjoy recreational activity in these water risk become ill if they be expose to contaminate water . recently , I witness this problem at first hand when I visit the River Derwent with Paddle UK . the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill introduce long - overdue reform to address this crisis . first , it ban bonus for water company executive who fail to protect the environment and consumer . it be a disgrace that , since 2020 , these executive have receive £ 41 million in bonus , benefit and incentive while water bill have soar and pollution level have remain unacceptably high . secondly , the Bill strengthen the Environment Agency ' s power to hold lawbreaking water executive accountable — it be shocking that only five individual have be prosecute by the EA to date . I welcome the fact that the Bill be lower the burden of proof require for the Environment Agency to impose fixed penalty notice from beyond reasonable doubt to the balance of probability . this will help to ensure that those who pollute our water pay the price for do so . thirdly , the Bill introduce automatic and severe fine for water company that commit offence such as pollute or fail to meet reporting requirement . the message the Government be send be clear : " if you pollute , expect to pay . " alongside this Bill , I welcome the fact that the Government have establish an independent commission into the water sector , and I look forward to see what further recommendation the commission bring forward to help ensure that our water become clear , safe and healthy . the people of Derbyshire Dales deserve well . they deserve river , lake and waterway free from pollution . this Bill represent a critical step towards address these matter , and I urge all member to support it . it be a pleasure to wind up for his Majesty ' s loyal opposition in what have be a comprehensive debate tonight . I want to thank all member , who have make so many interesting point across the House about many different aspect of policy . the hon . member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) and for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) talk about water supply issue and when company fail to deliver on their duty . the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) talk about the fantastic Wave Project help young people with their mental health in her constituency . the hon . member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) rave about the magnificent Severn , and the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) wax lyrical about her local birdlife . my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) talk about the importance of monitoring and of a holistic approach to water management , as be echo by my hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) talk about the importance of fit - for - purpose water infrastructure for new development . my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) eloquently articulate the issue with our victorian sewage network and about the importance of the water restoration fund . my hon . friend the Members for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) and for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) be proud advocate for stand up for water quality for their constituent . as for those in the party sit to my left , the Lib Dems seem to airbrush themselves out of government history and seem to forget that they be in coalition Government for some five year . may I gently remind the Liberal Democrats that they actually have a Water Minister in that coalition Government who do absolutely nothing on this issue when they be in power ? they pivot and posture as the party of protest , jump on their stand - up paddleboard bandwagon , but far from be concerned about water quality and safety , they appear more than happy to strap on their wetsuit and dive headfirst under the water . the amendment to the Environment Bill in the last Parliament that Labour and the Liberal Democrats vote for would actually have cost in excess of £ 300 billion to rebuild the entire victorian sewage and drainage system . that be completely unaffordable , and it would have put up taxpayer ' water bill by hundred of pound each year . they do not tell the public that when they cast their smear on conservative mp and peer who vote for sensible , cost plan to realistically address the sewage situation , but they never let the truth get in the way of stand - up paddleboard bandwagon . water quality and how sewage be deal with be of vital importance to all our constituent right across the House , and we on this side — the Conservatives — be proud that we be the party that begin the process of address this while in government . what we can now see with this new Labour Government be an attempt to copy and paste many of our conservative achievement and plan , rebadge they as their own . it be an interesting approach and a recurrent theme . they oppose and block all of our plan when in opposition , and now they be scrabble around and try to say that they agree with our plan all along . in fact , just look what the Government have be say this week about the Conservative - deliver comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , which Labour now think be the good thing since slice bread , have distance themselves from it when they be in opposition . that be the theme of this new Government . the labour manifesto promise to put fail water company under special measure to clean up water and clean up our river that have be pollute by illegal sewage dumping . now it be Labour Members ' turn in government to deliver on these promise to ensure that these be not more broken promise , such as their heartless family farm tax , which they promise they would not do and then cruelly go on to do , or their promise not to raise national insurance . I note that we would not be talk about this issue today , or we would be talk about a bad situation , have it not be for the previous Conservative Government be the first to investigate the problem , grasp the nettle and meet the ambitious pledge to ensure that 100 % of storm overflow be monitor , so that we could get accurate datum on what be be put into our waterway . without that , we would need to do far more groundwork to start determine what we need to do . we must remember that the last time Labour be in charge of DEFRA in England , when it leave office in 2010 , only 7 % of storm overflow be be monitor , compare with 100 % when the Conservatives leave office . it be leave for we to sort and improve monitoring , so that we can have an accurate view of what be happen — an evidence base for policy making , rather than poke around in the dark under Labour . I really hope that Labour do not break its promise to improve water quality in England , because the story in Labour - run Wales be sub - optimal to say the least . in 2022 , the average number of spill from storm overflow be two third high in labour - run Wales than in England — not exactly the good blueprint for government that Labour at Westminster say it would emulate . some 92 % of English bathing water meet water quality standard , but that still need to be high and we look forward to the new Government detail their plan to achieve well result . we have hear from many member about Thames Water , which be a notable , critical issue at this moment , but so far Labour have fail to come up with a clear plan for how it will address that and protect both the bill payer and the broad taxpayer . the Labour Government be promise to review the water system , with more review and more reboot , but what they should be do be roll their sleeve up and continue the progress that the Conservatives start . that progress include our landmark Environment Act 2021 , deliver our plan for cut plastic pollution and hold water company to account ; our work on measure storm overflow ; our ambitious " plan for Water " ; and strong action on water company that be illegally dump sewage into our water — we have hear a lot about that tonight . that have include quadruple water company inspection , mean a pathway to 4 , 000 inspection a year by April 2025 , and 10 , 000 a year from April 2026 . that be part of our plan to crack down on poor - perform water company . we ban bonus for the boss of water company that have commit criminal breach , so that pollute our water be not reward — a conservative measure that this Bill copy . we also fast - track £ 180 million of investment from water company to prevent more than 8 , 000 sewage spill this year , and step up requirement on water company to increase investment in water infrastructure , with a commitment upwards of £ 60 billion over the next 25 year . we put pressure on those company . we also prosecute water company that illegally pollute our river , make it clear that polluter must pay for damage to our natural environment . we try to give more tooth to the regulator , Ofwat , and to the enforcer , the Environment Agency . let I touch briefly on the Bill ' s passage in the other place . our colleague there table amendment to the Bill that we be happy be accept , but we be disappoint that amendment 51 , table by Lord Roborough , do not pass . it would have stop customer across the country have their bill increase in the event of a water company be put into special measure . under the current Bill , if a company in one part of the country be place in special measure and cost be incur , consumer in the rest of the country may still be liable to pay for it , despite not use the company that have be place in special measure . the amendment would have provide a significant improvement to the Bill , and in Committee we will be ask Labour to think carefully about amendment to improve the legislation . it be disappointing that when the Labour Minister in the other place be ask about amendment 51 , she fail to commit to protect consumer from high bill if a water company go under . our conservative colleague in the other place also work hard to bolster important nature - base solution , and we be glad that the Government listen to they . we will look to strengthen that , along with the important role of the Water Restoration Fund . his Majesty ' s loyal opposition will support this Bill on Second Reading , and we will look to improve it in Committee , as our conservative colleague do in the other place . we will scrutinise the Bill as it go through the rest of the legislative process , to ensure that it can be the good for all our constituent right across the House . this Bill must function in the way that the british public expect , to continue the work to clean up our british water . the strong action that begin under the Conservatives to improve our water need to be uphold by this new Labour Government . I thank all member who have participate in today ' s debate ; it have be a privilege to listen to the thoughtful and varied contribution make by colleague across the House . I be sorry that , because there be just so many of they , I will be unable to refer to each one individually . however , I add my thank to the citizen scientist in many constituency who have be mention . I thank the school eco club , which have also have a mention , all the worker out there and the regulator . I state my recognition of the impact that sewage pollution have not just on the environment , but on tourism and local business . may I say how impressed I be by the number of member who go wild swimming ? I add my mum to the list of people who love do that . I must confess that , with nine day to Christmas , my love of Christmas may shine through in these closing remark . I believe I might even have detect just a sprinkling of Christmas magic in the air , because what other explanation can there possibly be for all the unity we have hear across the Chamber ? nobody be tell we that they want the status quo , everybody think the situation have get bad , and through the many conversation I have have as Minister , I know that those opinion be share by investor , environmental group , the general public and even the water company themselves . I know , like all member here , that all I want for Christmas be clean river , lake and sea . in fact , as I think back to last Christmas , I believe that the public have almost give up hope . our river , lake and sea be polluted , bonus be be award to pollute water boss , wrongdoing be often go unpunished , and oversee that failure be a tired government who have run out of idea . then , something great happen : the wonderful people of our country elect a Labour Government . that Labour Government immediately get to work draft this Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , along with a water commission to fundamentally transform our water sector for decade to come . it will prove that we do not need a Christmas miracle to clean up our river , lake and sea ; we just need a Labour Government . the Bill will drive meaningful improvement in the performance and culture of the water industry as part of a wide effort to ensure that water company deliver for customer and the environment . during the debate , I have be make a list , check it twice , and I would like to respond to some of the main point make . on the scope of the Bill , reform and wide issue , member across the House have speak about the need for more radical reform and raise concern about wide quality issue . this Bill be intentionally narrow . we be focus on improve the performance and culture of the water industry as an urgent priority , ahead of the forthcoming £ 88 billion of investment in the 2024 price review . many member speak about the need to hold company to account , and the measure in the Bill do just that . however , we know that this Bill alone will not be enough to fix our water system ; we know that we need to go far . that be why we have launch the independent commission , which will look at the role and responsibility of the regulator among many other fundamental aspect of the water sector . all Members be invite to participate in the call for evidence in the new year . many member have also speak about our precious chalk stream . the Government be commit to the protection and restoration of our cherish chalk stream , and the good way to achieve that be by fix the framework for manage our water system , as we be do through the commission . some Members express concern about the timing of the commission . I reassure the House that the commission will publish a report in quarter 2 of 2025 , with recommendation for actionable solution to the sector ' s problem , which will inform further legislation to transform our water industry . a few hon . member mention that nationalisation be not in the Bill ' s scope . to give the short answer , that would be complex and time - consume , would halt the investment need — we would lose £ 88 billion of private investment — and would do nothing to stop sewage pollution . many hon . member have speak about the need for our regulator to be properly equip to make use of the new power in the Bill . as the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) mention , the Environment Agency be already recruit up to 500 additional staff for inspection , enforcement and strong regulation of the water industry , increase compliance check and quadruple the number of water company inspection by March . however , the measure in the Bill go far and will well enable the regulator to ensure that company be hold to account . the new cost recovery power in the Bill will enable the Environment Agency to fully recover the cost of its water company enforcement activity . in addition , new automatic penalty will allow the regulator to enforce minor to moderate offence more quickly and proportionately . collectively , these measure will complement each other to enable the regulator to address widespread water industry underperformance . we be currently look at the water restoration fund . on protect customer , many hon . member rightly point out that company have not deliver for their customer . I reassure all hon . member that the Government be clear that customer should be place at the heart of water company operation . that be why we will bring forward secondary legislation to introduce new and increased compensation — double the previous amount or more — which will be compulsory for water company to pay customer for poor service , underscore our commitment to hold company to account and stand up for customer . that work , together with measure in the Bill that elevate the voice of consumer , will ensure that water company deliver for their customer as a priority . on the importance of transparency , we be well equip customer to hold water company to account . clause 3 will close the current monitoring gap . however , monitor volume and concentration be much more complex , lead to significant cost and a long roll - out time . such additional monitoring would not be proportionate for emergency overflow because they should be use only on very limited occasion . before we go — I have just a couple more — drive home for Christmas , I will conclude . the Bill will deliver the most significant increase in enforcement power for water industry regulator in a decade , include strengthen regulation to ensure that water boss face personal criminal liability for serious lawbreaking and new power to ban bonus from be pay if environmental standard be not meet . the Bill be not just about policy ; it be about protect consumer , safeguard our environment and ensure that water company operate transparently and responsibly . I be confident that with the collective expertise and dedication of this House , we can pass this legislation and make a real impact . that be what we promise in our manifesto , and we know how important it be to keep our promise , especially at Christmas . so , in the spirit of Christmas and the season of good will to all , I thank everyone again for their contribution and welcome the opportunity to work collaboratively with all hon . friend and Members across the House to ensure that we get the change need to give the gift of clean water to future generation . finally , on behalf of the DEFRA Bill team , we wish you a merry Christmas and a happy new year . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be broughht to a conclusion on Thursday 16 January 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) any increase attributable to the Act in charge or fee payable under any other Act ; and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Trade that the draft Ivory Act 2018 ( mean of " Ivory " and Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 May 2024 , in the last Parliament , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Road Traffic that the draft Road Transport ( International Passenger Services ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 28 October , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . Committees Foreign Affairs Committee Ordered , that Claire Hazelgrove and Matthew Patrick be discharge from the Foreign Affairs Committee and Alex Ballinger and Phil Brickell be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) International Development Committee Ordered , that Gordon McKee be discharge from the International Development Committee and James Naish be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Northern Ireland Affairs Committee Ordered , that Jerome Mayhew be discharge from the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee and Simon Hoare be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee Ordered , that John Lamont be a member of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Welsh Affairs Committee Ordered , that Aphra Brandreth be a member of the Welsh Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) work and Pensions Committee Ordered , that Neil Coyle be discharge from the Work and Pensions Committee and Frank McNally be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) victim of Sexual Violence : Court Delays Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) I thank Mr Speaker for grant time for a debate on court delay and victim of sexual violence . I do not underestimate the challenge that the Minister face . as I will hopefully draw attention to this evening , the task at hand be considerable , but overturn this situation be owe to survivor . this topic be emotive and cut deep . justice be a british value that so many in our country live their life by — a strong sense of what be right and what be wrong . but justice be also a principle that we should all be able to fall back on . when we fall victim to crime and seek redress , a timely and support road to justice should be expect . that be a fundamental element of our social contract in Britain . the situation that thousand of woman and girl find themselves in today be far from that . the road to justice for so many victim of rape and serious sexual offence be long and fall desperately short of what be owe to they . do my hon . friend share my concern that too many victim of domestic abuse face year of court delay ? it be an issue that constituent have raise with I . those delay have consequence . one tell I that her life be on hold , while her abuser be free to go on with his . she feel afraid to go out in her home town in case she be see by he . do my hon . friend agree that it be essential that we not only address court delay but implement fast - track process for these case , to ensure that justice be serve promptly ? my hon . friend could not have put it well . that be the basis of this whole debate . accord to the quarterly statistic publish last week , the number of sexual offence case wait to go to Crown court stand at 11 , 574 — up 44 . 5 % on the same time in 2022 . just two week ago , the Director of Public Prosecutions say that the delay be as bad as or probably bad than he have ever know they to be . I commend the hon . Lady on concentrate on this issue , and on secure this debate so that we can all support she . do she agree that while every victim deserve their day in court , some case should get priority , in deference to the distress and anxiety involve ? sexual violence crime must have that designation , and both the Crown Prosecution Service and judge should be able to streamline proceeding . we be all look for the Minister to come back with a positive answer to hurry the system up . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . I think we will hear something from the Minister on what the Government intend to do and what we will hopefully get somewhere down the road . these be woman and girl who be sit at the foot of trauma . survivor face the enormous challenge of have to relive their experience in court , and each day until then . the lengthy delay , which can be anywhere from two to five year , draw out this experience . I fear that more and more woman and girl be lose faith in our criminal justice system — a system that be suppose to protect they . accord to the Criminal Bar Association , the number of victim abandon prosecution increase 41 % in the first half of this year compare with the first six month of 2023 . do my hon . friend agree that these delay can have unintended consequence , such as a change in bail condition ? if a victim happen to move , the bail condition to avoid the area may not apply any more , and they would have to go back to the police and back to court . it can become a horrible maelstrom , bring everything back all the time for the victim . it cause unnecessary and troublesome complexity for people who be already face so much in their life . we really can not emphasise that enough . in the final quarter of 2022 , almost 70 % of rape survivor withdraw from the justice system . the situation at present be nothing short of a crisis . it be estimate that the number of rape victim who pull out of prosecution before trial have more than double in five year . one reason give be a shortage of lawyer — for both prosecution and defence — willing to take on rape and serious sexual assault case , because they say that case be become increasingly complex and that they be poorly pay in comparison with other area of the law . do my hon . friend agree that it may be time for we to look at whether the lawyer do this kind of work should be properly pay ? I hope that the review that will take place will look at everything and cover every aspect . I believe its aim be to be comprehensive and to bring justice and fairness to everybody involve in the system . it be imperative that attention be draw to the nature of postponement , which bear down on the already fragile mental health of victim . I have hear heartbreaking account of court date be move on the morning of the schedule trial . Imagine wait in anticipation for that day of justice , exert every ounce of mental strength , just for it to be snatch away on the day of the trial . I invite colleague to imagine that happen not once , but again and again . there be also an important public safety element , which be too often overlook . many perpetrator be not place on remand , and , when there be a delay to a case be hear , someone who could be guilty be walk the street . return to the issue of fairness , there be a deep injustice to that : victim must look over their shoulder each and every day and have their life put on hold , while perpetrator may be able to cling to their freedom for year . I be cognisant that a number of factor have drive this enormous backlog , include the pandemic , industrial action by criminal barrister , a lack of capacity in the legal profession and an increase in the number of complex case enter the system . while many of these factor be well know , it have also be bring to my attention that defence barrister may be able to generate a postponement by request a last - minute adjournment as a delay tactic . I would be grateful if the Minister commit to look at that issue in more depth . we need great scrutiny of last - minute adjournment , which be have such devastating impact on victim . in the summer , I write to the Justice Secretary on postponement and delay , and be grateful for the response that I receive from the then Minister of State for Courts and Legal Services , my right hon . friend the Member for Swindon South ( Heidi Alexander ) , in which I be assure that reduce wait time for victim of serious sexual offence be a priority for our Government . the Minister advise I that the Government be carefully consider the good way to fast - track rape case , and be work with the judiciary to understand how that may be achieve . I would be grateful if the House receive an update on the Government ' s progress in deliver that manifesto commitment . do my hon . friend agree that it be important that we keep the blame for the backlog exactly where it belong ? defence barrister be doubtless do the good they possibly can for their client in some extremely difficult circumstance , and , as my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) say , they be pay poorly relative to other member of their profession . the most significant problem in the court system have be cause by 14 year of chronic Tory underfunding of the court system itself , the Crown Prosecution Service and the prison system , which mean that : far too few people be hold on remand ; people be be bail when they should not be ; people be be deal with very swiftly to try to deal with custody time limit ; and there be so many problem bake into the system as it stand that victim be be wholly fail . we need to ensure the system be invest in and reform in such a way that those problem do not continue to be exacerbate , one of the most enormous one be — order . if the hon . Lady want to contribute to the debate she always have the opportunity to ask the Member in charge and the Minister , but intervention must be short than that . my hon . friend make a very good point . I be sure we will hear from the Minister that the Labour Government have a lot of plan to hopefully right all those wrong . in recent day , we have hear the Minister for court and legal service , the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) signal toward once - in - a - generation - type reform , as well as the need to think boldly . I welcome her ambition . for the woman and girl who be wait for their day of justice , I would be grateful if the Minister set out what action the Government be take in the short to medium term . as I bring my speech to an end , I want to give voice to a constituent who write to I with her experience . I want she to know that there be people listen . I want she to know that she have show exceptional bravery by share her story in the hope that other will not have to endure what she have . I want she to believe that the Government can put this right . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will end with her word , which be deeply move and a powerful expression of what she and other be go through : " in one word , die . I feel like die . to end the pain of living every day know that the trial could be postpone again , like it have so many time now . I be live in limbo , with the weight of the trial weigh on I every day . the intense anxiety in the run - up to the trial date be unbearable . I can ' t eat , sleep or enjoy anything . there be absolutely nothing for I to look forward to . it ' s like try to walk through the deep muddy river and get absolutely nowhere , just stick in the same place . and that be what it be like every time the trial be postpone and I have to wait month for the next trial date . and the cycle start again . it be kill I every single day . " I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) on secure this very important debate . we have hear some incredibly powerful and move story . I know that everyone in this House , despite our political difference , be unite in one purpose : that more must be do to bring victim the swift justice they deserve . and more must be do to properly support they throughout the justice process . as we have hear , for too many victim in this country justice delay do mean justice deny . as my hon . Friend state , only last week the new statistic lay bare the scale of the backlog in our Crown court , which be now at a record high . there be 73 , 000 case await trial or a sentencing hearing as of September this year . that number have double since 2019 . sexual offence case , include rape , be on average take 356 day from arrival at the Crown court to completion — a significant increase on the average for sexual offence case pre - covid . as politician , we often reel out statistic , but behind each one of those statistic be real people : real victim , include people who have endure rape and sexual abuse , who be not just wait month for trial , but year . for some , that seemingly endless wait be quite understandably too much to bear . leave without hope of the justice that they deserve and face a long road to the closure that they need , many drop out of their case all together , and when they do , their attacker get away without consequence , free to offend again . the Minister be make a very important point about victim attrition , but one thing that concern I be the fact that court delay also mean that when case be hear , the testimony of victim — include victim - survivor in these case — will be of much poor quality give the length of time that have pass , and more case will end with a not guilty verdict for people who should very much be behind bar . be the Department look into that , and be there statistic for what the backlog have mean for the conviction rate ? my hon . friend be right : there be concern about that , and I hear they , as do the Department . it be true that some of the special measure that be intend to empower victim - survivor give testimony be potentially have a negative impact . I will say more about that later , but I can say to my hon . friend that the Department and I be very alive to it . my aim be to get out there and meet as many victim and survivor as possible to hear directly about their experience , some of which be unimaginably awful . one victim - survivor of rape tell I that her case take year to finally get to trial , and she use word similar to those of my hon . friend ' s constituent — word that I will never forget . she say that the entire experience make she " want to die " . no one should ever feel that way about our justice system . I be proud that this Government be elect with a landmark mission to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade , finally make this a priority after year of neglect . it will not be easy , but I believe that we be up to the challenge . however , if we be to have any hope of do so , we must improve the way in which the justice system respond to these crime , and that must include ensure that victim ' case be hear swiftly by the court . as I have say , this Government inherit a criminal court system that be stretch to breaking point . we have take the crucial first step to bear down on that caseload , include funding 106 , 500 Crown court sit day in this financial year . we have also extend sentencing power in magistrate court to 12 month when they be deal with offence that can be hear in either a Crown court or a magistrate court , which will free up 2 , 000 Crown court day and provide more capacity to hear the most serious case . however , the number of case enter Crown court show no sign of let up , so if victim be go to see justice more swiftly , we can not simply do more of the same ; we have to go far . deliver the Government ' s bold plan for change and make our street safe will take a once - in - a - generation reform of our court system , which be why the Lord Chancellor announce last week that she have commission Sir Brian Leveson to carry out an independent review of the criminal court , look specifically at how we might speed up the hearing of case . Sir Brian ' s review will examine how our court can operate more efficiently , but it will also look at much more fundamental reform — consider , for instance , the introduction of an intermediate court , in which case that be too serious to be hear by a magistrate alone could be hear by a judge alongside magistrate . we expect Sir Brian to report on his initial finding in spring next year . this mark a crucial step towards our ambition of bear down on the overall caseload and bring down waiting time for all victim , witness and defendant . as I have say , however , we know that victim of sexual violence endure particularly long wait for justice , and , as the House will know , we have therefore make a commitment to fast - track rape case through the system . we be consider the good way of do so , and we be keen to build on the work that have already be do by the senior judiciary . I see one of their initiative at first hand during my visit to Bristol Crown court over the summer , and be strike by how tirelessly those judge and court staff be work to keep case move . it be inspiring to see . this be a tough challenge , and whatever we do , wait time will not come down overnight . if we be to keep victim engage while they continue to face lengthy wait , partner across the criminal justice system and victim support service must pull together , as indeed they be . the Ministry of Justice provide ringfenced funding for independent sexual violence adviser and independent domestic violence adviser , as well as for community - base domestic abuse and sexual violence service . that be in addition to the core funding that we provide for police and crime commissioner to allocate at their discretion . I be pleased to say that we be maintain the 2024 - 25 funding level for sexual violence and domestic support next year . the CPS recently announce its victim transformation programme , which have a focus on improve the justice process for victim of rape and serious sexual offence . pre - trial meeting with prosecutor be now be offer to all victim of adult rape and serious sexual offence , and there will be great access to independent sexual violence adviser as well as dedicated victim liaison officer . as my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) have mention , victim ' experience of court be affect by the interaction that they have there and with the staff . I very much welcome what the Minister be say ; it be really positive stuff . policing and justice be devolve matter in Northern Ireland , but I know that she take a big interest in Northern Ireland . could she share what she have put forward tonight with the relevant authority in the Northern Ireland Assembly ? as an MP for a constituency in a devolved nation , I be acutely aware of the need to ensure that we have a join - up approach . although justice and policing be devolve to Northern Ireland , I will happily discuss this issue with colleague to see how we can well approach it , because somewhere in our United Kingdom a rape or sexual violence victim - survivor be currently suffer an insufferable wait , and we need to do more to protect all victim across the country . as I have say , we need to look at victim ' experience of court . as part of the same programme , over 500 CPS staff who will meet victim have receive trauma - inform training . we will also continue to deliver trauma - inform training at Snaresbrook , Leeds and Newcastle Crown court , with over 400 professional train so far , include court staff and police . Witness wait room and in - court technology have be upgrade in those court so that victim can give their good evidence , watch proceeding away from the courtroom , or simply wait in a comfortable and private space . attend court can be terrify , and I know that many victim , quite understandably , fear bump into the perpetrator when they do . the Minister just make a point about victim be able to watch proceeding from another room , which be often not the case in rape trial , where the victim be consider a witness rather than a participant in the case . I know that the Department be look at thing like transcript . will they become more readily available , so that victim who , for whatever reason , do not feel like they can participate while the trial be take place can read what happen after the trial as part of the process of closure ? my hon . friend make another important point . we be currently offer a pilot on transcript . I will mention that again in my speech , but it be about how much more comfortable we can make the whole terrifying process for victim and survivor when they be in our court system . what more can we do to make their experience as comfortable — if that be the appropriate word — as it can be ? as I have say , we know that it can be utterly terrifying . there be also concern about the way that victim ' evidence be currently present to the jury . I hear those concern loud and clear , particularly where the approach can reduce the chance of secure a conviction . the Department be conduct a thorough impact evaluation and look at section 28 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 — the mechanism by which victim can give their testimony in advance of trial — to see whether it affect the case outcome , court effectiveness and the timeliness of cross - examination . we will publish the finding of our review in the new year . victim of rape and sexual offence can request transcript of Crown court sentencing remark for free through our one - year pilot , which be run until May next year . I encourage all eligible victim and survivor to find out whether that could be helpful , and to please take up the offer . just for clarification , will transcript be available only for victim - survivor who have secure a successful conviction ? give what we be talk about , it be important that people who be not able to secure a conviction can still access transcript as part of the important process of closure . my understanding be that any victim who be eligible be able to apply for transcript , regardless of whether a conviction have be secure , but I will seek clarification for my hon . friend on that matter . this be a landmark mission , and we have far to go to support victim of rape and sexual offence — both at court and across the whole of their journey through the system . I be proud that , as well as fast - track rape case through the court , we plan to begin roll out our free , independent legal adviser for victim of adult rape from next year . those adviser will be a real step forward for victim , and offer legal advice at any point between report and trial . we will also introduce specialist rape and sexual offence team in every police force . we will make sure that police officer receive strong training on violence against woman and girl , and ban anyone with a history of violence against woman and girl from join the police force . wherever they be in their journey through the system , I want to make sure that every victim know their right and that agency be hold accountable for deliver those right . the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 lay the foundation for ensure that victim know the right they should receive under the victim code and that agency be hold accountable for deliver they . the Act also place a duty on local commissioner in England to collaborate in the commissioning of support service for victim of domestic abuse , sexual abuse and serious violence . we will consult on a revise victim code and the duty to collaborate guidance early next year . I be work with my official to ensure that we have the right datum and system to monitor compliance with the new code . we have also pledge to increase the Victims ' Commissioner ' s power , so that there be more accountability when victim ' need be not be meet . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ask I about the impact of adjournment on victim and survivor . I want to reassure she that I be look at every possible solution and pull every lever at my disposal across the criminal justice system to ensure that we leave no stone unturned in ensure that the victim of these abhorrent crime receive the swift justice that they deserve . I understand that there be a specific problem with the criminal injury compensation scheme as it stand , whereby a claim have to be bring within two year of the original allegation , even though in many case there have not even be a prosecution by that point . be that something that the Department be look at ? my hon . friend will be aware of the consultation run by the previous Government on the criminal injury compensation scheme . I have be review those consultation and we be look to publish the Government ' s response in the new year , but we be aware of the concern from the sector , and from victim and survivor , about the scheme . we be look at how much more we can do to support victim and survivor as a whole on these issue . [ Official Report , 19 December 2024 ; Vol . 759 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) let I come to a close by again thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and wallsend for secure this debate , and all the hon . and right hon . member who have contribute to such a thoughtful discussion . sexual offence leave devastation in their wake . victim be often leave traumatise and the very least they deserve be swift justice , but too often that justice process serve only to traumatise they far , whether it be because they be not get the right support or because they be face an agonising wait for their case to come to court , as we have hear so powerfully this evening . we have inherit a criminal justice system — and a criminal court system in particular — in crisis , but the rebuilding effort be under way . we have an ambitious package of reform , we be think boldly , and while I be realist enough to know that change will not happen overnight , I can assure you all that this Government be up to the challenge . question put and agree to . House adjourn .