let I make some progress before I take intervention . early this year , we announce the large ever investment in childcare in England ' s history . very soon , we will be spend £ 8 billion a year . that investment will ensure that every child get the good start in life . it mean that work parent will be entitle to 30 hour of free childcare from the end of parental leave until their child start school . to give parent the flexibility they need , we be roll out universal wraparound childcare for primary school child from 8 am to 6 pm . these conservative policy will end the choice that some work mum and dad feel they need to make between have a family and have a career , and it will save parent up to £ 6 , 500 a year . the generation have child now will not remember what be on offer under Labour , but let I remind the House : 13 year of Labour deliver only 12 . 5 hour of free childcare for some three and four - year - old . that be less than one hour for every year in office . our childcare package give people want to start a family the confidence to do so . may I invite the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , when she stand at the Dispatch Box , to finally offer labour ' s support for our record childcare investment ? can she tell hard - work parent in Wales why her party be not roll out the same support that english parent will benefit from ? I know that the right hon . Lady , like I , do not grow up with privilege . I have hear she speak eloquently and passionately about the help and support she receive from Sure Start , and I know she be grateful for that support . I be sure there be many positive from that programme — indeed , my good friend use to run a Sure Start centre — but there be also some serious failing in the design and delivery . first , sure Start be not a universal offer , and it stigmatise people who use the service . plus , it only help family for the first five year of a child ' s life , but any parent will say that challenge can arise at any time . [ interruption . ] this be important : the National Audit Office find that sure Start have fail to target the most disadvantaged family and be even unable to identify family need support in the most disadvantaged 30 % of community . it simply do not reach the right people . when we launch our family hub programme , we ensure that the hub provide a service to anyone who need it . they be support family with everything from mental health to breastfeed , and housing and debt service — challenge that many of we need support with . the service be universal , available to anyone . family hub support family with child of all age , from conception to 19 , or up to 25 for those with special educational need . they join up service , ensure that every family get the right support at the right time . as part of that , the good start for life programme provide focus support during the crucial first 1 , 001 day of a child ' s life , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) for her work to get that right . before I talk about how we have transform our school , I will address one of the key challenge we face in deliver opportunity : school attendance . I will in a moment , honestly , but this be important . I want to address one of the key challenge we face , which be school attendance . follow the pandemic , we have see a phenomenon where more child be stay home and not go to school . that challenge be not unique to the UK . at the G7 , my counterpart from the US to Japan be all grapple with the same issue . I reassure the House that it be a top priority . we be make progress through our attendance hub and mentor programme , as well as more specialised support for key cohort , such as those with mental health issue or special educational need . in just the past year , 380 , 000 few child be persistently absent , and we will keep drive at this issue until all our child be back in school . I notice that the Labour party have a lot to say about attendance this morning , but the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) may have miss the 380 , 000 few child persistently absent in the past year . yet again , Labour offer little more than empty word , with a touch of student politic . in labour - run Wales , attendance rate be still far behind those in England . last year ' s attendance datum show that Wales only manage an attendance rate of 85 . 5 % , compare with England ' s 92 . 5 % . that mean that english child be benefit from well over a week more education than those just over the border . I advise the Labour party to spend a little less time play politic , and more time help child . the child of Wales deserve well .