I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) and for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) on their excellent maiden speech , which give a real flavour of their constituency and their constituent . today ' s debate highlight once again the wide issue of build safety and poverty . the safety of the building that house people and their family should not be subject to their economic status , and we must work together across the House to level the play field to provide safety for all in this country . there be clearly much work to be do to achieve this , and I be grateful to the Minister for note that we will have an opportunity to far discuss this issue at a future date . it be with immense pride that I can say that in July , on my third attempt , I be elect to represent the resident of the Guildford constituency , the place that have be my home for the past 25 year . in my speech at the count follow my election , I make a commitment to my resident that I will be an MP for everyone in my constituency , include those whose voice have go unheard for too long . I reiterate that promise today . I first stand for elect office in 2008 , drive by a love for my community and a deep frustration that my area of Bellfields and Slyfield be be fail by the Conservatives . I dedicate myself to help those at risk of lose their home , work on community project and be the voice of my community fight for change in the council chamber . some 16 year later , I be here in this Chamber because of my frustration follow 14 year of conservative failure that have , once again , leave community across Guildford and the whole country struggle . I be also here because the people of Guildford feel that too . they say , " enough be enough " , and feel that I could be their voice for change in this great Chamber . I be honour by the trust they have place in I . we be here as mps to serve our resident , our constituency and our country . I hope that will always be at the forefront of our mind as we fulfil our work as mps , and particularly as we speak in this Chamber and as we vote . speak of service , I would like to take a moment to acknowledge and thank my predecessor , Angela Richardson , Anne Milton and Sir Paul Beresford , part of whose former constituency be now part of the constituency of Guildford . Angela and Anne serve Guildford , its resident and business with determination for 14 year . I thank they on behalf of our constituent . now , on to my wonderful constituency . Guildford be an ancient town . the early human activity in the area be in the mesolithic era and it be mention in Alfred the Great ' s will from 880 ad . the name Guildford mean golden ford , which come from the golden bank at the river crossing below St Catherine ' s chapel , but that be not the only golden watermark in this election . in June , we see a golden tide of Liberal Democrat mps , with 72 elect across the country , include six of we in Surrey . this victory be a message of change for our country and I be very much look forward to work with my fellow Lib Dem mps , particularly on the issue of special educational need and disability and Thames Water . as an MP , I be especially committed to address the cost of living crisis that continue to push too many people into poverty , trap by a crisis not of their own making . we must lift people out of hardship , ensure that everyone have access to the service they need , without drain their pocket . I be sure that colleague throughout the Chamber will agree that the fact that over 3 million people across the UK rely on Trussell Trust food bank alone in 2023 - 24 be a disgrace . it be a blight on our country and it must end . Guildford be not only a historical town but a modern hub of innovation , often refer to as the Hollywood of the computer gaming industry , and home to many high - tech business at the cutting edge of envirotech , defence , space and more . our town be a tech hub that draw on the legacy of our constituency : Ada Lovelace , the mother of computing , live at Horsley Towers in my constituency for many year , and Alan Turing , whose genius continue to be honour through the Alan Turing Institute at my alma mater , the University of Surrey , have his childhood home in Guildford . my constituency be also bless with breathtake natural beauty , from the stunning RHS Wisley to the Surrey hill and our many National Trust property , include the River Wey navigation , which the National Trust also manage . as MP , I be commit to balance the continue evolution and success of my town and surround village with protect the natural beauty of my constituency for generation to come . that be why I will be champion in the House the cause of clean up our river . the River Wey , which flow through the heart of Guildford town and through the village to the east of my constituency , have be the lifeblood of Guildford for century . it be central to Guildford ' s identity , its history , resident ' leisure time and its future . the level of pollution be record in our river month after month be disgusting , and that be impact the health of nature , animal and resident . it be time to clean up our river and bring to an end the story I hear too often on the doorstep , about resident become unwell after go in the water . as one example , I meet the coach of a child ' s cricket team early this year who share how , in 2023 , his young team go for an end of season celebratory dip in the River Wey . every single one of those child become ill after go in the river . I will end with two final thought . the first come from my time study music at the University of Surrey . it teach I the importance of harmony , both in art and in life . it be my sincere hope that together in this Chamber , over the come year , we can create a symphony of voice , change the divisive rhetoric of the last few year and restore public trust in politic and politician . if we do not , I worry about the future we leave for future generation . finally , I want to express my deep gratitude to my friend and family , particularly my husband , Chris , and my son , Reuben and Josh , who have support I every step of the journey to this place and continue to walk it with I . without their love , encouragement and occasional campaigning skill I would not be here today . slanderous ! I stand here , honour beyond belief , to represent the great town of Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield — town that be part of the story of our nation . this be the land of dramatic sandstone avenue , of hill and sky , of romantic scenery in the shadow of Pendle Hill . this be the land of regimented urban landscape , of terrace top and tower nestle among chimney and waterway , cushion by village , farm , country pub and proper pint . we be England and Lancastrian and we be proud . Burnley , the " meadow by the Brun " , first record in the 12th century , have long be a hub of culture and commerce . we have a 13th - century market , the 14th - century Towneley Hall play , and the 15th - century St Peter ' s church . indeed , come over the moor from the wrong side of the Pennines , Charlotte Bront ë visit Gawthorpe Hall in Padiham , Wordsworth write of the site of Pendle Hill , and Burnley ' s most prolific poet , Henry Houlding , lead a literary renaissance for northern town in the 19th century . once the epicentre of the global cotton trade , the worker of our town build this country . it be say at its height that Burnley ' s cotton industry have clothe Britain by breakfast and the rest of the world by dinner . we be a birthplace of movement , too — suffragette such as Margaret Aldersley , and fighter , leader and thinker . non - conformist be we — radical and reformer — and once the seat of a Labour leader no less in Arthur Henderson . I say all this because I want to stress that our story do not start or end with the mill . loom for a long time be our tool . in our hand be the industrial world make , but now we be so much more . we do not buy the standard story of decline . we be a place determine , with eye focus on the future , hungry to play our part . by the way , we have no great example of Burnley endurance and enterprise than Burnley Football Club . yes , sometimes in the face of emotional trauma — at time extreme — they be twice champion of England and one - time winner of the FA cup . let I say , I believe for the first time ever in this House , " up the Clarets ! " as town , we be now a thriving , dynamic , multicultural symbol of renewal and creativity . to be make in east Lancashire be to be a benchmark of quality , particularly in our manufacturing , aerospace science and cultural industry , with world - beat , amazing , innovative company put we on the map . we be also unusual politically , in that the constituency have be represent by all three major party in the past 10 year alone , although I hope to bring a very lengthy period of stability in that regard . Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield be so often paint as town with problem and extensive poverty , which be true , but to end our description there be to misunderstand our mindset , our mission , our sense of history and community . our fight be not in trading narrative as to how we get here . we have problem , yes , but we do not simply retreat to the warm nostalgia of our history . we know that that way lie only stagnation . our fight be in create solution for tomorrow . less interested in rhetoric , storytelling and ideology , town such as mine want outcome . for we , one ' s ability to deliver solution mean a lot more than the colour of a rosette . outcome be what matter . what be good be what work . in our public service , that mean dependable quality , transparency , choice , the interest of user come first and an approach that challenge every vest interest in the public interest . reflect on this mantra and the debate today , I want to talk a little about our housing stock . first raise by my predecessor , Peter Pike , in his maiden speech of 1983 , the once proud regiment sandstone avenue that I speak of early — once a step up for family — be now in a poor and worsen state . too many of my constituent live in substandard , under - insulate , cold and mouldy home . low land value lock out investment , but , more critically , lock out family from the decent accommodation that they deserve and write off whole community as just not worth the investment . if we be to continue to thrive we need more housing , new housing , more social housing and a decent retrofit programme not see on a scale since the last Labour Government . it be only through that growth that we can achieve the sort of improvement in our public service that we need . that be the only way that we will attract the secure job and dynamic workforce of the future . too many of our young people be stick in a generational cycle of worklessness , which hold back entire family , because of a lack of opportunity , skill , connectivity and , actually , confidence . we will only truly grow as a country when people in place like ours feel that growth touch they ; when prosperity reach the doorstep of our terrace ; when we break the cycle and say , " if you have the will , we will give you the way . no one leave behind . " in my time here , I hope to represent to the good of my ability those value and ambition . at this juncture , as be tradition , I pay tribute to my predecessor : in Burnley and Padiham , Antony Higginbotham ; and in Brierfield and Nelson East , Andrew Stephenson . both very decent and hard - work man , they campaign on many local issue in their year in this House , and have many friend across the House , which be testament to their character . I genuinely wish they both well for the future . I be the great - grandson of irish immigrant , from Dublin and across Ireland , who make their life in Manchester . I be age two , and one of two kid to a single mum , when Labour take office in 1997 . it be because of that government that my mother be support through illness to raise we , by an NHS with the time and resource to care . scheme such as Building Schools for the Future , first praise by my predecessor Kitty Ussher in her maiden speech in 2005 , give I this future , and I be one of many . we stand on the shoulder of giant in this place , but I be able to climb on to those shoulder only because of a supportive family , who be watch from the Gallery , and the ladder that that Labour Government provide for kid like I and family like mine , from town like mine . I know that this new Labour Government will strive to do the same , and I for one be enormously proud to be a part of it . I start by congratulate the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) and the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) on their fantastic maiden speech . it be great to start my time in this place by prove no few than five colleague wrong about their constituency be the good , because obviously that be an award that belong to the people of Milton Keynes North . this be such an important debate on an issue that affect many of my constituent and those of other Members represent Milton Keynes . I be glad to hear that this Government will work to ensure that everyone feel safe in their home . as the brother of one of our brave local firefighter in Milton Keynes , I echo the comment of many colleague who pay tribute to those in our emergency service who have deal with such incident . I hope that they have to deal with far few in future . it be an immense honour to stand here today as the new MP for Milton Keynes North . I be deeply privileged to represent not just the new city of Milton Keynes but many of the beautiful village and historic town around which it be build . in my constituency lie the old market town of Olney , where 250 year ago the timeless hymn " Amazing Grace " be pen . there be Wolverton , which boast the old operational railway work in the world ; Stony Stratford , where I be tell the term " cock and bull story " originate — thankfully not something we be know for in this place — and Newport Pagnell , which for over half a century host the headquarters of Aston Martin . next week mark 60 year since the release of the film " Goldfinger " , in which the most famous car in the world , the db5 , make its debut . last week , I have the pleasure to visit Aston Martin to see the home of that historic car and where some of " on her Majesty ' s Secret Service " be film . can I promise that my contribution in this place will have the excitement , glamour and the adrenaline of those film ? no , I can not , but as the MP represent town with such fascinating past , I promise that I will fight to give they all an even bright future . I start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Ben Everitt . he work tirelessly to try to secure a much need woman ' s and child ' s hospital for Milton Keynes . as we now have some of the long NHS waiting list in the country , it be an important campaign , and I will be sure to take up its rein . he also chair the all - party parliamentary group for housing market and housing delivery , which look at how we fix the break planning system — some of the issue have be discuss today . I hope that this new Government take forward many of the recommendation that emerge from that work as we strive to build the 1 . 5 million new home that this country need . I would like to take a moment to mention my labour predecessor and friend , the late Brian White . Brian be a true champion of Milton Keynes . he see the potential in our city long before it be fully realise and , as an MP , local councillor and later mayor , Brian be a tireless advocate for our community . he be never one to shy away from a hard battle , as those of we who know he can attest . one of those battle be the successful fight to keep the law in this place write on vellum . unfortunately , we have since move to a compromise position where only the front cover of each Act be print that way , but since the only remain vellum manufacturer in the country , William Cowley , be base in my constituency , I will fight with everything I can to keep what be leave of this important 175 - year - old tradition . as the first MP for Milton Keynes who be bear , and grow up , there , I would like to talk about the many man and woman who build the new town — now city — that I call home . one in particular be Fred Roche , the man who lead the Milton Keynes development corporation with a bold and uncompromise vision . the mantra that everybody on that team live by be , " make no little plan " . Fred be a streetfighter , who more than anything else be willing to do what be need to achieve something that many other have consider impossible : get money out of the Treasury . allegedly , he insist on construct the outer road of Milton Keynes first , make it hard for the budget to be cut later — a scheme that those work on HS2 wish they have think of . he also once march into Whitehall on Christmas eve and refuse to leave until his budget be approve . I just mention to the Government Front Bench that those be tactic I will not rule out use in the future . [ laughter . ] for member across the Chamber who have , shamefully , not yet visit Milton Keynes , what Fred and his team build be nothing short of a masterpiece . at time when family right across our country be live in substandard condition — many would echo some of the comment we have hear today — and many be live without even an indoor toilet , Milton Keynes offer a beacon of hope . high - quality home be build for ten of thousand of new resident and , at its peak , 10 family be move in every single day . in just a few decade , what be once a vision on a planner ' s desk have transform into one of the UK ' s most dynamic economic powerhouse . today , we be home to Santander UK , one of the big bank in the country , and Red Bull Racing , the fast Formula 1 team on the planet — when I speak to Aston Martin last week , it tell I to take out that line . the city of pioneer and innovator create more start - up than almost anywhere else , boast a grow tech sector worth over £ 3 billion and rank as one of the most productive place in the country . for every pound that Fred do manage to squeeze out of the Treasury ' s tight grasp , we have repay it many , many time over . and while it may be know for its concrete cow , it be far from a concrete jungle . some 40 % of our city be comprise of green space . alongside those be our beautiful lake , river and canal . every child , include I , grow up within a five - minute walk of a park or green space . it be say that plant a tree be one of the great act of altruism . we dig , we plant a seed and , with that small act , we shape the world for many generation to come . Fred Roche and the team plant more than a fair few tree . in fact , Milton Keynes boast over 22 million tree , more than 80 per person . but I would argue that build a new town be an even great act of altruism . Fred pass away a few year before I be bear , but I stand here today as a member of the first generation that truly benefit from his vision . thank to Fred ' s design , my young parent be able to scrape together enough to raise I and my brother in a spacious house with its own back garden . the dream of home ownership become a reality for they , provide we with the security and stability need for the good start in life . the park and green space they create back then may one day be enjoy by my own child . now , I will not pretend that we do not have our share of challenge , one I will work tirelessly to address in this place , but Milton Keynes be build on that new town promise of good job , public service that be there when you need they , and , most importantly , affordable and high - quality new home . it be a place that give I the opportunity , so that I could one day be stand here , give my maiden speech in the House of Commons . I mention that because in my short time in politic I have notice that too often people search for excuse to oppose new development . there be a view , or have be a view , that it be more politically convenient to be a voice that yell no , rather than a voice that search for way to say yes . and while the acronym " nimby " may be a modern invention , the sentiment be not . glance through Hansard of the ' 60 and ' 70 , we find countless example of opposition to the building of my hometown . but there be consequence to that short - term political thinking . if it be not for Fred and the Milton Keynes development corporation team ' s ambition , back by the 1960s Labour Government , the two - bed end of terrace that my brother and I grow up in would never have exist . as a proud son of Milton Keynes , I can think of no mission more important for this new Government than to build the new town and new home that this country need . it will require we to embrace the spirit of Fred Roche — visionary , unyielde in the face of opposition , and make no little plan — but it will allow we to build a future where every child in Britain have the opportunity to thrive in a home and a community that nurture their potential , as mine do for I . I congratulate everyone on their maiden speech . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Members for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) , for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) and for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , and the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) and for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) . I represent the new constituency of Penrith and Solway , which take in part of the old Carlisle , Copeland , Workington , and Penrith and the Border constituency . I therefore follow some truly great parliamentarian : Willie Whitelaw , a pillar of strength behind the Thatcher Government ; David Maclean , Lord Blencathra , who now excel in the tradition of likeable nuisance in the other place ; Baroness Sue Hayman , a champion of farming and rural affair whose skill will be put to good use on the Labour Benches ; Sir Tony Cunningham , a family friend ; my father , a fine mentor ; Rory Stewart , who now entertain Members , at least on the labour Benches ; Dr Neil Hudson , who have be re - elect as the Member for Epping Forest ; and Mark Jenkinson , who represent Workington from 2019 to 2024 — I may have profoundly disagree with he , but I must confess that he work hard for his constituent . I find myself slightly in awe at those member whose predecessor have disappear into the sunset . I will be see mine on a regular basis , but I promise to take any advice from they with grace . like the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , I have the privilege of represent a constituency in which I grow up . my grandfather bring my family to Cumbria in the 1950 , and his work as an engineer see he on the platform for the opening of Calder Hall , the world ' s first full - scale commercial nuclear power station . my family ' s love of Cumbria and the Lake district have endure ever since . I have have the pleasure of represent my home of Keswick on town and district council and , more recently , on the new Cumberland unitary authority . I step down from that council know that my former colleague will do their good to ensure that a challenging local government reorganisation be a success . as I begin my time in this place , I leave behind my work in the electrical contracting industry and my career as a contract manager — a role that see I work with many people in leasehold block management . it therefore seem apt that I make my maiden speech in this important debate . as a former electrician , it be not lose on I that the tragic event that unfold at Grenfell Tower be trigger by an electrical fault . it be now imperative that the sequence of event that follow set the ground for long - last reform that ensure these thing can never happen again . I commend the decision to create the Building Safety Regulator , with its focus on high - risk building . while many member rightly push for reform of the leasehold system and extend the right to manage , I hope the new regulator act as a defence against those whose only concern be keep build management cost down . Winston Churchill once say : " if you put two economist in a room , you get two opinion , unless one of they be Lord Keynes , in which case you get three opinion . " when it come to the interpretation of british standard affect electrical safety and fire safety , my view be that if you put two electrician in a room , you will get two opinion , but if you put the bill payer in the room with they , you will only get one . the regulator should ensure that any new rule be unambiguous and can be apply consistently . I have hear a number of maiden speech and do not wish to get into the unwinnable debate about whose constituency be the most beautiful . I will just take it as give that my constituency that take in the Solway Coast national landscape , part of the North Pennines national landscape and , not least , the north Lake district , include the Borrowdale valley , for which I have a deep love , be undoubtedly in the top 10 . however , the real beauty of my constituency be not in its architecture , coastline , lake or hill ; it be in the people . when I be first elect as a councillor , I be take aside by an experienced and recently retire parish clerk , who have a message for I : " it isn ' t politician who run thing around here — it be the community . " she be right . I be in constant awe of the tireless effort that volunteer show in my community every day : the mountain rescue team , who keep we safe on the fell ; the Maryport Rescue volunteer , who run the independent lifeboat service on the Solway coast ; the flood action group , who hold our flood authority to account ; our community - lead housing trust , who excel in deliver home in rural community , where large housing association fail ; the community group in Ireby , Hesket Newmarket and Nenthead , fundraise to save vital community facility at the heart of their village ; our food hub volunteer ; church together , the Lions , the Rotarians and all the other group that give so much . they inspire I , and this politician ' s job must surely be to help they flourish . I head back to my constituency for the conference recess know that I have many issue to tackle . the Old Court House in Cockermouth , already half collapse into the River Cocker , lie empty , with little progress be make by its owner and other authority to make it safe . resident of Penrith have be plague for many year by a revolting odour from a local meat rendering plant . the infamous " Penrith pong " have be particularly strong over the summer month . rural home , many lack modern home insulation , be in desperate need of government investment to help permanently bring down energy bill . farmer be in despair , as trade deal have fail to deliver and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs struggle to implement its new payment scheme . the local health service be struggle to recruit the vital staff my community need to thrive . I be here in their service and to rebuild broken Britain , just as we promise we would during the election . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I in this extremely important debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) and for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) on their touching and move speech . I really be proud to be one of the scottish delegate . in the tradition of maiden speech , I begin by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Deidre Brock , who represent the constituency for nine year — the first woman to do so . I wish she and her team well in their future endeavour . I would also like to pay tribute to Mark Lazarowicz , who represent the seat from 2001 until 2015 , and who continue to advocate for human right , asylum seeker and the environment . the newly extend boundary once again include Muirhouse , part of the constituency previously represent by the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) . this part of the constituency hold a special place in my heart as it neighbour West Pilton , where I live and where my stepchildren go to school and attend Greater Pilton childcare centre during the 1990 . it be a groundbreaking facility provide family with access to affordable , flexible childcare — a model that I hope we can learn from and replicate . when we live in West Pilton , our flat be riddle with damp . we have to run a dehumidifier constantly , and it would produce litre of water daily . our child ' s health suffer , and paint over black mould be normal . we be lucky : we be eventually able to move . however , the flat be still there , and I would suggest that the issue remain too . housing resilience must be a priority when building and retrofit home . access to safe and secure home be a fundamental right , and although it be a devolved issue in Scotland , we must learn lesson and work together across government to deliver affordable , healthy , energy - efficient home for all , which must include the removal of unsafe cladding . I also place on record my sincere thank to Malcolm Chisholm , who help we at this time . he represent Edinburgh North and Leith in this place from 1992 to 2001 , when he move to the Scottish Parliament , before stand down in 2016 . he be why I join the Labour party . his reputation and integrity , his achievement and his passion for the people of Edinburgh North and Leith be rightly still recognise , and indeed he remain an inspiration to I and many other in our community and beyond . Madam Deputy Speaker , I think the record may have to be correct as I have hear many hon . member from across the House make an error by declare that their constituency be the great in the country . they be of course mistaken . as many of those who have already visit will know , Edinburgh North and Leith can surely claim that accolade . from our amazing shop on Princes Street , George Street and the new St James Quarter , as well as our fantastic independent store , we have the good retail across the country . we have world - class restaurant , caf é s and bar — from the Johnnie Walker Whisky experience , which I be pleased to visit over the summer recess with my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister , to the Lind and Lime gin distiller , where my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be welcome , and the Port of Leith distillery , the country ' s first vertical distillery . I extend a welcome to all my hon . friend to visit and join I for a dram . Edinburgh North and Leith be steep in history from Calton hill to the New Town , another UNESCO world heritage site , and onwards to Stockbridge , the home of Golden Wonder crisp ; Newhaven , with its harbour and proud fishing history ; and Western Harbour , reclaim from the sea . we be home to the Royal Yacht Britannia and the Royal Botanic Garden in Inverleith . Leith link have claim to be the birthplace of golf . and although the stadium be just outside the boundary , the identity of our football team , Hibs , be Leith to the core . I can confirm that , as the song suggest , there be indeed much " Sunshine on Leith " , although not always on match day . our famous port of Leith — yes , the bar , but also the port itself — have see the coming and going of ship from all over the world , bring with they story , good and people that have shape our identity . the historic landmark remind we of our rich heritage and the importance of preserve it for the future . this be evidence through our proud industrial and political history , be where Rose ' s lime juice be invent to prevent sailor from get scurvy , and where Salvesen have a whaling business . in the present day , our port be reinvent itself for the next generation , with the green energy job of the future and with business such as Vestas and nearby Nova deliver wind and tidal energy . stitch into our community be so many site of natural beauty , with the Water of Leith flow through the heart of our constituency and be hug by the firth of Forth . with the world ' s large art festival on our doorstep , we house the Scottish National Portrait Gallery , Leith theatre , Customs House , North Edinburgh Arts , Edinburgh playhouse and the new Dunard concert centre , which be currently under construction . alongside our film and music studio , we be home to many author , artist , musician and poet . I could go on , and I possibly have for too long already , but this be by no mean an exhaustive list , and it do not even begin to recognise the wealth of talent and diversity in our community . I have yet to mention what make Edinburgh North and Leith truly great : simply , it be our people . be elect to this House to represent my home and my community be truly the honour of my life . I would like to thank everyone who trust I with their vote . for those who do not , I hope that during my time in this place I can evidence that I will champion our home . I understand that there be so much work to do to ensure that all can prosper as , sadly , for far too many people , Edinburgh be a tale of two city . too many have be leave behind and suffer through decade of neglect . poverty remain stubbornly high and be a reality for so many child . in our city , food bank have become the norm , where people already struggle to feed themselves , struggle to feed those who have even less than they . we have a housing emergency with more than 3 , 000 homeless people , many of whom be family with small child live in hotel room with no kitchen , resort to cooking meal each day from a kettle . we have the scourge of addiction etch on people ' s face , clear for all to see . while our public service be underfunde and break , our community be resilient . I think of people such as Pauline Bowie , recently honour for her work , and the compassion of all the unpaid volunteer and low - wage carer who work tirelessly each day for our community . our strength lie in the people of Edinburgh North and Leith , who be know for their warmth , compassion and determination . change people ' s life by offer hope be why this Government be elect , and it be why we must deliver . my journey start , like all of we , before I be bear . I be bear in Rottenrow maternity hospital in Glasgow . yes , the House have not misheard I : there be a maternity hospital call Rottenrow . when I be a baby , and before I have a voice , decision be make that would change and shape my life forever . I be lucky then , as I be now , to have people who love and nurture I . although my mum , dad and gran be no long live , they would be very proud , as well as very surprised , that I be in this place , as I leave school at 15 with few qualification and leave home not long after . it take I many year to find my place in this world , and I be so grateful for the love of my stepchildren David and Zoe , for Zak and for my wife Melanie , for her love and support every day . to I , they be home . I thank all my friend , party activist , colleague and love one who have support I in my life and on my journey lead to this place . as a child grow up in the ' 80 in a council house in a mining town , with hindsight it seem inevitable that I would end up as a proud product of the Labour and trade union movement . in my work life — from a youth training scheme in the city council to be a housing officer and trade unionist , as well as through my voluntary work on the Children ' s Panel , in drug and alcohol and mental health — advocacy have always be my passion . I have learn through life that when other give up on you , it be easy to give up on yourself . my promise to everyone in Edinburgh North and Leith be that I will not give up , and I will fight for everyone ' s right to thrive . I will be their voice in this place , and as be Leith ' s motto , I will always persevere . may I associate myself with the previous remark regard the Grenfell disaster and send my sympathy to all those affect ? I congratulate all the other member on their eloquent and informative maiden speech , especially my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) , with whom I will happily share probably more than a dram of whisky as we argue over the first two place for good constituency , which be , obviously , Isle of Wight West . first , I pay tribute to Annie Caddick , who win silver in the mixed double scull at the Paralympics . we be all very proud of she . I also pay tribute to my predecessor Bob Seely for his seven year of service to the Isle of Wight as MP for the then large constituency in the country . his interest in all thing chinese and Russian be legendary on the island . my dad be not a toolmaker , but he be a conservative councillor . [ hon . member : " Ooh . " ] I have get the sympathy of everyone now , apart from those on the Conservative Benches . while we do not agree on politic , he and my mum ' s many year as councillor do teach I that politics be about service . it be also the reason I be stand on this side of the Chamber , although there be rather more room on the Opposition Benches on most day . my grandad Dennis , a lifelong labour supporter , would be very proud that I be stand on this side . from be the large constituency , the Isle of Wight be now two of the small constituency : Isle of Wight West and Isle of Wight East . I stand here as the very proud Member for Isle of Wight West and the first - ever Labour MP to represent the island . I look forward to work with my colleague , the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) to improve the life of all islander , although it would appear he have get the early ferry home today , so he be ahead of I . it turn out that the island be pretty good at first . in 1660 , Freshwater resident Robert Hooke develop Hooke ' s law of elasticity . in 1843 , the UK ' s first amusement park open at Blackgang Chine , and be still open today , albeit , for those who know it , much small , as it be slip into the sea — that be not part of the attraction , by the way . Marconi establish the first wireless station on the island in 1897 , and Saunders - Roe build the first ever hovercraft in East Cowes in 1958 . we still have a hovercraft service to this day . the first Isle of Wight Festival be in 1968 , but in 1970 the crowd be so large that the following year an Act of Parliament be pass ban such large - scale gathering . the first consumer electric car — the Enfield 8000 — be build in Cowes . in 2009 four - year - old Daisy Morris discover a new specie of dinosaur — not in the council but actually on Atherfield beach — know as the pterosaur . we even have our first prize - win alpaca name Hip Hip Hooray at West Wight Alpacas . I be also the first owner of a chip shop to become an MP . [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] there will be free pickle egg for hon . member when they come to the island . of course , we be also know for sailing . a special thank to the RNLI and independent lifeboat that put their life at risk to save ours . the island be home to some fantastic produce that grace the menu and table of some great eating establishment across the country — many will have try they without even realise . there be fantastic tomato from Isle of Wight Tomatoes , asparagus and sweetcorn from the Arreton valley and Harvey Browns farm , beef from Cheverton farm , cherry from Godshill , and our own cheesemaker . we also have industry . we make blade for Vestas wind turbine , we make aircraft part , and the Thames Clipper boat that hon . member see from the Terrace be make at Wight shipyard in East Cowes . we have a thriving art culture . the Trinity , Quay Arts and Apollo theatre , where a young Anthony Minghella start his act career , be still very active . but it be the people who make the Isle of Wight . it be community that make it a special place to live and the envy of town and village across the country . whether it be the Saturday morning tea and cake in Niton , the regular event in Yarmouth , the community - run sport centre in Freshwater , the warm space in Northwood , the volunteer at Cowes food bank , the model train enthusiast who open up to the community , the amazing work of Pan Together in Newport or the inclusivity of East Cowes , as well as the many charity — a special mention to the Ellen MacArthur Cancer Trust — community be the heart of the island . when I make it to this place , Isle of Wight West be refer to , along with many other , as a " bonus " seat — that appear to be code for " oh , fffair play — you win ! " — but we win due to the hard work over the past five year of 120 volunteer , return I as the only Labour councillor and now the first Labour MP for the island . I would like to thank every single one of they , but special thank must go to my agent Phil Attfield , whose commitment be second to none . extra special thank must go to my wife Leah and my two child and grandchild for their unwavering support and for put up with I over the last few year . as rosy a picture as I paint of our wonderful island and how much we contribute to british life , we have all the same problem as coastal and rural town , include poor access to NHS dentistry , GPs and adult social care , SEND education in crisis and a severe lack of secure and adequate home . those problem be exacerbate by our be an island . imagine be charge between £ 50 and £ 300 every time you drive to a neighbouring county — travel from Derby to Nottingham , from Southampton to Salisbury or from Oxford to Aylesbury would become prohibitive . ferry travel across the Solent have become unreliable and ferociously expensive in the last few year , so much so that it be now a barrier to opportunity . have to rely on expensive , privately run ferry mean that school trip do not happen and NHS appointment on the mainland be miss , or patient be so worried that they travel the night before and pay for a hotel . my predecessor mention ferry 23 time in seven year , but ferry be such a huge issue to I and my constituent — I be guess my hon . friend have not realise this ! — that I have promise to mention ferry and cross - solent ferry travel at every opportunity , regardless of the topic . I might even get past 23 time in this speech . [ laughter . ] I hope the House forgive I if I do . I be a husband , dad , grandad , walker of our three dog and an enthusiastic visitor to island pub . my focus while in this place will be on find solution to the issue that I have outline . my job as MP be to champion the island in this House , to ensure that I represent all my constituent and that the island be no long a forget outpost and get its fair share of support from my Government , as well as action on ferry . [ laughter . ] I extend a warm invitation to everyone on the estate to visit the Isle of Wight , and I make a plea to Ministers to visit . I spend some time in the first few week talk to the Doorkeepers and security and restaurant staff . I explain that I find this place to be one of the friendly workplace I have ever step foot in — bear in mind I be self - employ . the response be that this have change as a workplace very recently . when ask how recently , they all reply , " the 5th of July . " I be extremely proud to stand here today with my colleague as part of a Labour Government dedicate to service , and I look forward to be part of a Government who build a future for the Isle of Wight and the country .