Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — cost of live what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Wales . what recent discussion he have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on support rural area in Wales with the cost of living . what recent assessment he have make of the impact of increase in the cost of live on people in Wales . the UK Government fully recognise the challenge pose by cost of living pressure as a result of the covid - 19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine , which be why we have provide £ 96 billion since 2022 to support household and individual across the United Kingdom — an average of about £ 3 , 400 per household . I call the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . Diolch , Mr Speaker . just as the cost of living crisis here demand urgent action for my constituent in Slough , the cost of live crisis in Wales demand it for the good people of Wales , especially as household face be £ 870 bad off under this Government ' s tax plan . shockingly , a which ? survey have find that one in five working - age parent in Wales be skip meal owe to high food price . what recent conversation have the Secretary of State have with supermarket about keep the cost of food down ? I hope the hon . Gentleman will recognise and welcome the fact that , as a result of the policy be pursue by this government , inflation have fall from more than 11 % to about 4 % . I hope he will also agree that worker throughout Wales will be very pleased with the cut in national insurance contribution , which mean that on average they will be £ 642 well off . if he be really concerned about the plight of work parent in Wales , I hope he will ask his colleague in the Welsh Labour Government to roll out the childcare initiative that be be roll out in England , but not by they in Wales . a number of my constituent have be adversely affect by their transfer from work tax credit to universal credit , because they work in sector such as agriculture and tourism and their income be therefore seasonal . the switch from an annual to a monthly assessment of their entitlement mean that many be lose out , but the Government have say that there will be no impact assessment to determine the financial effect of the move . will the Secretary of State intervene in support of such an assessment , so that worker with seasonal income can be treat fairly ? the hon . Gentleman be a champion of constituent in rural area such as his , and I be happy to look at any information that he want to give , but I hope that he will recognise that the increase in the living wage will have help his constituent , even those who work seasonally . that be alongside the extra payment that the Government have make to household in which people be live on benefit or have disability . be the Secretary of State aware of a report publish this morning by the Trussell Trust ? it state that 55 % of the people receive universal credit in Wales run out of food last month and could not afford more , nearly 40 , 000 have need to use a food bank in the last month , and four in 10 have fall into debt because they could not keep up with their bill . whatever the UK Government be do about this , it be clearly nowhere near enough . what be the Secretary of State go to do about it ? the focus of this UK Government be on ensure that people can work and do not have to live on benefit , but we recognise that there be those in need . that be why pension , benefit and the living wage have all rise in line with inflation , and why we have ensure that additional payment be make to pensioner , those live on benefit and household where there have be disability . the fact be that people on low wage will not be help by the plan of the hon . Gentleman ' s Government in Scotland — and , indeed , the Labour Opposition — to shut down the oil and gas industry , which would throw 100 , 000 people out of work . do my right hon . friend agree that the Welsh Government ' s sustainable farming scheme , if implement , would have the most serious possible impact not only on Welsh farming business , but on the cost of live in the rural area that depend on they ? do he far agree that for those community , the scheme be the very opposite of sustainable ? my right hon . friend be entirely correct . the Welsh Labour Government ' s sustainable farming scheme involve take 20 % of prime Welsh agricultural land out of commission in order to pursue a whole load of nebulous scheme . it will increase food mile , and will reduce our ability to feed ourselves . one of the good way we can support people with the cost of live across Wales be by support business . do the Minister agree that the Welsh Labour Government , prop up by Plaid Cymru , should do more to support hard - work farmer on Anglesey , such as Richard Jones and his family dairy , Maelog Jerseys , in Llanfaelog ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . the Welsh Government should abandon their so - call sustainable farming scheme , which will remove 20 % of prime Welsh agricultural land and prevent farmer from grow food or graze crop on it . they need to do something about tuberculosis , which be run rampant in Wales , unlike in England , and they need to look at the nitrate vulnerable zone across the whole of Wales , which will also impact farmer , such as her constituent . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the impact of the Conservatives ' cost of living crisis on people in north Wales have be exacerbate by their dither and delay on new nuclear at Wylfa . the previous project , which Ministers abandon in 2019 , could have be 50 % complete by now , and would have create up to 8 , 500 job . some 900 permanent job would also be well on the way , add a total of almost £ 400 million a year to the local economy in wage . what do the Secretary of State say to people across north Wales who be still look for good job because of his Government ' s failure ? the last Labour Government certainly do not build any nuclear power station . the UK Conservative Government be get on with Hinkley , and we be sort out small modular reactor . there be a process go on , in which six company with an SMR model will be reduce to two , and one will be select by the end of the year . we have provide £ 160 million to buy the Wylfa site . that will ensure that there be a nuclear industry in Wales — a result of the policy of this Conservative Government . it be a stark admission of the Government ' s failure that the Secretary of State boast , after 14 year in government and do absolutely nothing for five year , of acquire a site at Wylfa . his government ' s inaction have cost people money , and still do . in nine year , all but one of our current reactor will be offline , which will weaken our energy mix , risk high price , and again leave we vulnerable to energy tyrant such as Putin . will the Secretary of State make an explicit commitment today to back new nuclear in place such as Wylfa , as Labour have do , in order to unlock job , investment and cheap bill — issue that his party have ignore for so long ? or be this another never - end Tory fiasco , like High Speed 2 ? the last Labour Government be not in the least bit supportive of nuclear . what this Conservative Government have do for energy be increase to 50 % the amount of electricity that come from renewable . we be the first advanced economy to halve our carbon dioxide emission , and we be push forward with float offshore wind and smr . all we get for business from the Welsh Labour Government be a block on new road be build , 20 mph speed limit , and legislation to charge people for drive to work . budget 2024 : business in Wales what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the spring Budget 2024 on business in Wales . the UK Government be back our small business by raise the vat threshold , deliver tax relief for the creative industry and investing in high - growth industry , such as advanced manufacturing . that be in stark contrast to the Welsh Labour Government ' s anti - business agenda ; Wales have some of the high business rate in the whole United Kingdom . it be interesting that the hon . member for Cardiff Central ( Jo Stevens ) think that have the high business rate in the United Kingdom be funny . sadly , pub and restaurant be close at a fast rate in Wales than in any other part of the UK . the measure in the Budget that the Secretary of State mention will bring some relief , but do he agree that what be push many of these business to the wall right now be Welsh Labour ' s slashing of business rate support ? my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . the UK Government have make sure that pub and other small hospitality business receive a 75 % discount on their business rate . in Wales , that policy have be absolutely slash , mean that pub and small business pay thousand of pound more under the Welsh Labour Government . that be an absolute disgrace . may I return the Secretary of State to the issue of the Rhondda tunnel ? the Chancellor of the Exchequer dole out bit and piece of money to the constituency of various member of Parliament on the Tory at - risk register , but he do not allocate any money to the Rhondda tunnel , despite the Secretary of State have tell I personally in the Chamber that we should apply for money from the levelling - up fund . that be all go , hasn ' t it ? so where should we now apply for money for the Rhondda tunnel ? there have be three round of level - up funding . the hon . Gentleman should know that there be growth deal across the length and breadth of Wales , cover every single constituency ; that there be special project be back in area such as Newport ; and that there be an investment zone and a freeport in Port Talbot . constituency the length and breadth of Wales have benefit from the many project that this Government have put forward . I appreciate his concern for that project in his constituency , and I suggest that he might look at share prosperity fund money in future . my right hon . friend be well aware that the Chancellor have extend business rate relief at the rate of 75 % here in England , but of course the Welsh Government be refuse to pass that money on to small business in Barry and Cowbridge in my constituency . do he not think it completely unfair that a business in Bristol or Cornwall will pay a lot less in business rate than a business in Barry or Cowbridge ? my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . it be extraordinary that the Welsh Labour Government , who be receive this funding in order to support small business in Wales , be fail to pass it on . as a result , the average pub in Wales will pay more than £ 2 , 000 more in business rate than a pub in England . the Welsh Labour Government must do more to support small business in Wales . the Secretary of State will know that much of our monetary policy , which have an effect on interest rate for Welsh business and Welsh household , be decide in Threadneedle Street . have he meet the Governor of the Bank of England recently ? if not , will he invite he to Wales to see the impact of his policy on the Welsh economy ? will he hold a meeting with other Welsh mp , and may I humbly suggest that it be in Blackwood , Newbridge or Risca in my constituency ? the hon . Gentleman will surely be aware that the Bank of England set interest rate independently , as a result of a policy bring in by the former Labour Government . it have be widely accept that it be right that the Bank should set interest rate with a view to not what politician ask it to do , but what the economy demand . as a result of the policy be pursue by this UK Government in conjunction with the Bank of England , inflation have drop drastically from over 11 % to 4 % , and I would like to think that interest rate will soon follow . I call shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . this " Budget will do nothing to deliver a well future for retailer and their customer . " those be the word of the British Retail Consortium , whose member face 45 , 000 incident of theft and 1 , 300 incident of violence and abuse every day . to help keep our Welsh high street safe , we Labour member want to fund an extra 13 , 000 police officer and police community support officer , and extra measure to deal with offender . why be the Government fail to tackle the epidemic of shoplifting and its victim , and to take it seriously ? the hon . Lady be right to raise this important issue for retailer , but I remind she that the UK Government have provide for an extra 20 , 000 police officer across the whole United Kingdom . we have repeatedly bring forward legislation to increase prison sentence and punishment for offender , but that legislation have often be vote against by member of her political party . this Government pledge £ 1 billion to electrify the north Wales main line . we all know that that £ 1 billion be an uncosted number pull out of the air . we also now know that phase 1 go no far than Llandudno . how can the Secretary of State explain that to the people live in Ynys M ô n and Gwynedd ? talk of rail electrification just mean more of the same for we : slow train , cancel service and empty election promise . the UK Government have already show a commitment to transport in Wales , spend £ 390 million on improve rail infrastructure over the last control period . in addition to that , there have be the south Wales metro , which be part of a UK Government - Welsh Government joint - fund growth deal . the Prime Minister be very clear about our commitment to the electrification of the north Wales rail line , and that commitment stand . the Tory leader in the Senedd oppose move to tackle the effect of excessive number of holiday home in our community . he go on about " anti - tourism , and anti - english policy be impose on the Welsh tourism industry " . now that the Tory Westminster Government be abolish tax break for holiday let , would the Secretary of State claim that his Chancellor be anti - tourism ? I would not . my friend in the Senedd have speak out repeatedly about the Welsh Labour Government ' s plan for an overnight tourism tax , which will have a detrimental impact on tourism business across Wales . the hon . Lady ' s party be in partnership with the Welsh Labour Government , and if she really want to support the Welsh tourism industry , I suggest she tell it that her member will vote against Welsh Labour ' s Budget , to prevent that tax from come in . Electricity Transmission and distribution what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Welsh Government on electricity transmission and distribution policy . the Government be commit to transform our electricity network to reach our energy security and net zero ambition . we recently announce an ambitious electricity network package that will reduce consumer bill , bring forward £ 90 billion of investment over the next 10 year and allow we to harness Wales ' s renewable resource , such as float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . pylon development for electricity transmission and distribution purpose be very controversial in the community that be expect to host they . I have four such potential development in my constituency , and the whole of Carmarthenshire be in uproar . will the right hon . Gentleman ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero to commission a study on technology such as cable ploughing , which allow undergrounding and have a comparable cost to pylon ? I understand the concern that have be raise in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . he have discuss this with I previously , and be champion his constituent ' concern . the information that I have be give be that lay cable underground would cost five to seven time more , but I hear what he be say . if he have a presentation or something that he can forward to I , I would be delighted to make sure that official in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero see it . on the subject of transmission and distribution policy , be my right hon . friend aware that the Senedd have decide to ban GB News ? what be his policy on that ? there may be a small electricity saving , but it be very disappointing that the Welsh Labour Government be prevent a perfectly legitimate viewpoint from be hear by member of the Senedd , who would do well to listen to people who do not always agree with everything they say . Healthcare what discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the adequacy of healthcare service in Wales . as my hon . friend know , healthcare be devolve to the Welsh Government , who have receive record funding to deliver on their devolved responsibility . they receive 20 % more funding per person than be receive for comparable service in England . despite that extra money , more than 24 , 000 patient in Wales have be wait more than two year for treatment . the number of people wait more than two year for treatment in England , which have roughly 20 time the population , be around 200 . last month , few than half of red call be answer by the ambulance service in Labour ' s Wales within the necessary eight minute . that be the Leader of the Opposition ' s blueprint for government . do my right hon . friend agree that , instead of campaign for more politician in Wales , Labour should focus on deliver the health service that the people of Wales thoroughly deserve ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . I have to make a 999 call for an ambulance for my father - in - law at 11 o ' clock one morning , and it arrive at 4 o ' clock the follow morning . my father - in - law then have to wait for another six hour in the back of an ambulance outside an accident and emergency unit . the Welsh Labour Government have build industrial fan in the ambulance bay to waft away the diesel fume . that be totally unacceptable . they be cut the NHS budget in Wales by around £ 65 million , yet they can find £ 120 million extra for more politician in Cardiff Bay . the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the right hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , have announce an extra £ 200 million of spending for dentistry . I have repeatedly ask she whether that be in the english budget or additional , in which case it would produce a Barnett consequential , but all she could say , repeatedly , be that it be additional . can the Secretary of State for Wales tell I whether the extra £ 200 million for dentistry in England will produce about £ 10 million extra for Wales , or will it produce nothing at all ? perhaps he do not know , either . as a result of the Budget , around £ 170 million extra will go to Wales . the hon . Gentleman know that Wales receive around 20 % extra to deliver healthcare , and it be therefore absolutely appalling that the Welsh Labour Government be unable to deliver the same service that be supply in England . it be interesting ; labour claim to be the party of the national health service , but where be Labour member ? they be not stand to ask a supplementary to this question , because they be ashamed of the healthcare that they have deliver in Wales . let this not become a blueprint for the rest of the United Kingdom . a 90 - year - old constituent of mine spend 31 hour in the back of an ambulance outside the Wrexham Maelor Hospital wait to be see . Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board , which serve north Wales , be responsible for 80 % of the preventable death in Wales . do the Minister agree that the Welsh Labour Government , who run the NHS there , be put life at risk ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise concern about the level of healthcare be provide to her constituent . shockingly , when the independent commissioner at the Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board raise serious concern about more than £ 100 million be misspent , the Welsh Labour Health Minister call they in and sack they . no wonder we be not get the right level of healthcare in Wales . the Secretary of State and other Tory mp bring up a litany of health issue in Wales , but Barnett consequential be a result of health spending and need in England . have the UK Government ever make any spending decision on need in Wales , such as in health , and then fund England , Scotland and Northern Ireland as a consequence of Welsh need ? he might find that a strange question , because UK decision be always make on the basis of England ' s need and other people get money as a consequence , which be why Wales be never go to catch Ireland for as long as Wales be in the UK and not independent . be that not so ? the Holtham review look at what Welsh need be and calculate that Wales need an extra 15 % . the UK Conservative Government then provide Wales with an extra 20 % . the question still stand : why have thousand of people in Wales be wait for more than two year for treatment , give that the Welsh Labour Government have be give more money than they need to properly fund the health service in Wales ? Independent Commission on the constitutional Future of Wales what discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the Independent Commission ' s final report on the constitutional future of Wales . the not very independent commission be set up by Welsh Labour Ministers and report to they , but it be pay for by Welsh taxpayer . its report be entirely in line with all the prediction I make : it contain more constitutional navel gaze and more call for more power , and nothing at all to address the problem that have be inflict on Wales by the Welsh Labour Government . it be deeply concern that a so - call " independent " commission describe Welsh independence as " viable " , despite the fact that the vast majority of people in Wales support remain part of the Union . of course , there be a difference between something that might be viable and something that be good . do my right hon . friend agree that independence for Wales would be hugely damaging to the Welsh economy and public service , and that any further exploration of this idea must be immediately rule out by the Labour Welsh Government ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ; it be hugely concern that the Welsh Labour Government be even willing to consider independence for Wales with this commission . they should be sort out the long NHS waiting list in the UK and do something about the fact that we have the low educational standard and some of the high business rate in the UK . as a result of the last bit of legislation , we also have some of the slow speed limit in the UK . it be time the Welsh Labour Government address the real priority of the people in Wales with the power they already have . be the reality not that the conservative party never want devolution in Wales or Scotland in the first place , which be why it do not want to see power extend to either the Senedd or the Scottish Parliament ? I campaign against the Senedd in the first place , but I be perfectly happy to accept the result of the referendum . I suggest that Scottish National party Members ought similarly to respect the result of independence referendum , be they about independence from the UK or independence from the European Union . support for Farmers what recent discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on support for farmer in Wales . the recent protest by farmer across the whole of Wales , include outside the Senedd , show the huge anger there be about the proposal for the Welsh Labour Government ' s so - call " sustainable farming scheme " . one of the good way we can support Welsh farmer be by choose to buy british product . that be good for the environment , as it reduce food mile , and for our food security , as we support our farmer . will the Secretary of State congratulate Morrisons , Aldi , Sainsbury ' s and now Ocado , which have all sign up to my campaign to have a " buy british " button online so that consumer can easily find british produce ? I completely agree with my hon . friend about buy british , although I might go one step far and suggest we buy Welsh food , wherever possible . that will be a lot more difficult if Labour implement its plan to bury 10 % of Welsh agricultural land under tree and to bury another 10 % under pond . that will increase food mile , decrease food security and destroy prime agricultural land in Wales . the Welsh Labour Government need to think again . the good way to support farmer in Wales , Northern Ireland , Scotland and England be to buy British . do the Minister agree that we should all work together , across all this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , to promote farming everywhere ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . let we encourage everyone to buy british and ensure we use as much of our land as possible for grow food , not cover it in tree . it be particularly hypocritical for the Welsh Government to tell farmer they have to plant tree on their land when the Welsh Labour Government be responsible for thousand of acre of forest . they be chop down 850 , 000 tonne of tree every year and even put some of they into the boiler that heat up the Senedd — not that many tree be probably require to add to the hot air in there . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 13 March . the Post Office IT scandal be one of the great miscarriage in our nation ' s history . I be determined that the victim get the justice and redress they deserve . today , we be introduce legislation to quash conviction result from this scandal . the Department for Business and Trade will be responsible for the new redress scheme , and we be widen access to the optional £ 75 , 000 payment . hundred of innocent sub - postmaster have fight long and hard for justice . with this Bill , we will deliver it . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . despite serious opposition from the Archbishop of Canterbury , three former Home Secretaries and three Government adviser on antisemitism , social cohesion and political violence , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be due to widen the definition of extremism tomorrow . while member on the Government Benches peddle far - right conspiracy theory about Islamists and Muslims take over Britain , should the Prime Minister ' s priority not be to get his own house in order and to stamp out extremism , racism and Islamophobia in the conservative party ? will the Prime Minister finally take Islamophobia seriously and agree to the definition ? discrimination have no place in our society . it be important to distinguish between strongly feel political debate on one hand and unacceptable act of abuse , intimidation and violence on the other . I urge the hon . gentleman to wait for the detail of the strategy . it be a sensitive matter , but it be one we must tackle because there have be rise in extremist who be try to hijack our democracy . that must be confront . he talk about peddle conspiracy theory ; I would just point he in the direction of the previous labour candidate in Rochdale . armed force personnel who serve their country for 15 year be eligible for the medal for long service and good conduct . similar medal be in place for those who make a career serve in the police , the fire service , the ambulance service and the coastguard . as I learn on a recent visit to Royal Bournemouth Hospital , where I meet the dedicated staff , no such accolade be in place for the NHS . will the Prime Minister support my campaign to see whether that anomaly can be correct , so the nation can formally recognise those who devote much of their work life in the NHS to help other ? my right hon . friend be right that our incredible NHS staff deserve our utmost thank for their service . I be pleased that many NHS organisation , as he know , have their own scheme in place to do that . we also recognise outstanding NHS staff through our honours system , and mp be able to acknowledge their work through the NHS parliamentary award . nomination remain open and I encourage colleague to avail themselves of that scheme . I will make sure that my right hon . friend get to meet the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , to discuss his specific proposal far . I call the Leader of the Opposition . may I welcome the legislation on the Post Office scandal ? Mr Speaker , this week we lose the formidable Tommy McAvoy , who serve his hometown of Rutherglen and the Labour Government with loyalty and good humour . we send our deep sympathy to his wife , Eleanor , and their family . we also learn that the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) will be take she well - deserve retirement . she have serve this House and her constituent with a real sense of duty , and her unwavering commitment to end modern slavery be commend by all of we . we thank she for her service . be the Prime Minister proud to be bankroll by someone use racist and misogynous language when he say that the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) " make you want to hate all black woman " ? the allege comment be wrong , they be racist , and he have now — [ interruption . ] as I say , the comment be wrong and they be racist . he have rightly apologise for they and that remorse should be accept . there be no place for racism in Britain , and the government that I lead be live proof of that . Mr Speaker , the man bankroll the Prime Minister also say that the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington should be shoot . how low would he have to sink , what racist , woman - hate threat of violence would he have to make , before the Prime Minister pluck up the courage to hand back the £ 10 million that he have take from he ? as I say , the gentleman apologise genuinely for his comment , and that remorse should be accept . the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about language . he might want to reflect on the double standard of his deputy leader call her opponent " scum " , the shadow Foreign Secretary compare conservative to Nazis , and the man whom he want to make Chancellor talk about " lynch " a female minister . his silence on that speak volume . the difference be that the Prime Minister be scared of his party ; I have change my party — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition . two week ago , the Prime Minister invite himself into everyone ' s living room at 6 o ' clock on a Friday evening . no one ask he to give that speech ; he choose to do it . he choose to anoint himself as the great healer and pose as some kind of unifier , but when the man bankroll his election say that the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington should be shoot , he suddenly find himself tongue - tie , shrink in sophistry , hope he can deflect for long enough that we will all go away . what do the Prime Minister think it be about the hundred of million of pound of NHS contract give to Frank Hester by his Government that first attract he to give £ 10 million to the Tory party in the first place ? Mr Speaker , I be absolutely not go to take any lecture from somebody who choose to represent the antisemitic terrorist group , Hizb ut - Tahrir , who choose to serve a Leader of the opposition who let antisemitism run rife in this Labour party . those be his action , those be his value , and that be how he should be judge . the problem be that the Prime Minister be describe a Labour party that no long exist ; I be describe a man who be bankroll the Conservatives ' upcoming general election . [ interruption . ] they can shout all they like . two week ago , the Prime Minister march they out like fool to defend Islamophobia , and now the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) be warm up the Opposition Benches for they . yesterday , the Prime Minister send they out to play down racism and misogyny until he be force to change course . he will not hand the money back . he will not comment on how convenient it be that a man hand huge NHS contract by his Government be now his party ' s big donor . you have to wonder what the point be of a Prime Minister who can not lead and a party that can not govern . Mr Speaker , national insurance contribution fund state pension and the NHS , so be the Prime Minister ' s late unfunded £ 46 billion promise to scrap national insurance go to be pay for by cut to state pension or cut to the NHS ? I be glad that the right hon . and learn Gentleman have bring up the Budget ; it be about time that he speak about his plan , because what have we hear from the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury — [ interruption . ] order . I call the Prime Minister . the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury have confirm that the Labour party will not be stick to the Conservative Government ' s spending plan , so we now have a litany of unfunded promise on the NHS , mental health , dentistry and breakfast club . that do not even include the £ 28 billion 2030 eco - pledge that the right hon . and learn Gentleman be still commit to . we all know that while we be cut taxis , Labour ' s unfunded promise mean high taxis for work Britons . no , the Labour party will not be stick to the Prime Minister ' s completely unfunded £ 46 billion promise . he think that he can trick people into believe that simply shake the Tory magic money tree will bring it into existence . let we be clear : 80 % of national insurance be spend on social security and pension ; 20 % be spend on the NHS . he be either cut pension or the NHS , or he will have to raise other taxis or borrowing . which be it , Prime Minister ? I know that it be not the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s strong point , but if he actually listen to the Chancellor last week , he would have hear that NHS spending be go up . it be a plan that be back by the NHS chief executive officer , who say that we be give she what she need . at the same time , we be responsibly cut taxis for million of people in work , with the average worker benefit from a £ 900 tax cut . what I be hear from the right hon . and learn Gentleman be that he be against our plan to cut national insurance . we have the high tax burden since the second world war . I do listen to the Chancellor : £ 46 billion of unfunded commitment . the Conservatives try that under the last Administration , and everybody else be pay the price . two week ago , the Prime Minister promise to crack down on those spread hate . today , he have shrink at the first challenge . last week , he promise fantasy tax cut . now he be pretend that it can all be pay for with no impact on pension or the NHS . all we need now be an especially hardy lettuce and it could be 2022 all over again . be it any wonder that he be too scared to call an election , when the public can see that the only way to protect their country , their pension and their NHS from the madness of this Tory party be by vote Labour ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about pension . pension be go up by around £ 900 this year . it be this Government who have protect the triple lock for the last 10 year . he talk about support work people . it be this Government who be cut taxis for every single person in work . it be this Government who be invest in the NHS . all we have from he be a £ 28 billion unfunded promise . I have a look at " make Britain a Clean Energy Superpower " . it be all there . he be still stuck to it , Mr Speaker , and if you look through it carefully , there be billion in spending that he have already commit to for Scotland , and billion for Wales . there be actually money for north London too , I notice . the problem be that none of it be fund , so why do he not come clean and tell we that under his plan the british people ' s taxis be go up ? million of people around the UK and Europe have be inspire by the brilliance of six Nations rugby . Premier league club like Gloucester Rugby , which be fund during the pandemic through loan authorise by the Prime Minister , the then Chancellor , have always be grateful for be keep solvent , but he will know that some club ' finance be fragile , and that the current loan repayment scheme could be crippling . will he ask the Sports Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , and the Treasury to try to find a solution , so that taxpayer ' interest be protect , and all of we can go on be inspire by top - class rugby for year to come ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we step in with a £ 150 million financial lifeline to ensure the survival of premiership rugby league club during the pandemic . I be tell that the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be work with Sport England , as the agent , to talk to borrower with concern about their loan agreement — any that have concern should contact Sport England in the normal way . I can also proudly tell he that we be talk to the Rugby Football Union and the premiership league to secure the future not just of rugby union , but of his local Gloucester rugby . I call the leader of the SNP . I begin by wish Ramadan Mubarak to Muslims across these isle . the conservative party have accept a £ 10 million donation from an individual who have say that one of our parliamentary colleague in this Chamber " should be shoot . " why be the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom put money before moral ? as I have say , the comment be wrong , the gentleman in question have apologise for they and that remorse should be accept . this be complete rubbish . the gentleman in question apologise for " be rude " . he be not rude ; he be racist , odious and downright bloody dangerous . on Monday , no . 10 say that we have " see an unacceptable rise in extremist activity , which be seek to divide our society and hijack our democratic institution . " be not the extremism that we should all be worried about the view of those Tory donor we have read about this week ? no , there have actually be a rise in extremist activity that be seek to hijack our democratic institution . it be important that we have the tool to tackle this threat . that be what the extremism strategy will do . I urge the hon . gentleman to wait for the Communities Secretary to release the detail . sub - post - master across the country will welcome the Government ' s announcement today on the introduction of legislation to overturn wrongful conviction . will my right hon . friend reassure the House that the legislation will be pass as quickly as possible and that we will support all sub - postmaster right across our United Kingdom ? I pay tribute to all postmaster who have campaign tirelessly for justice , include those who tragically will not see the justice that they deserve . today ' s legislation mark an important step in finally clear their name . across the House , we owe it to they to progress the legislation as soon as possible , before the summer recess , so that we can deliver the justice that they have fight for . we continue to work with our counterpart in Scotland and Northern Ireland as they develop their plan , but regardless of where and how conviction be quash , redress will be pay to the victim across the whole of our United Kingdom on exactly the same basis . the future of child ' s cancer service in my constituency , and across south - west London , Surrey , Sussex and beyond , will be decide by NHS England tomorrow . the exist service be world lead and have save the life of countless child . many of we who have engage with the consultation process feel that the wrong decision be about to be make , ignore risk to child ' s cancer care by move they to the Evelina London Children ' s Hospital . if the Evelina be choose tomorrow , will the Prime Minister intervene personally to delay any final decision until he have meet I and concern mp from across the House so that he can prevent the risk to our child ' s cancer service ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , decision about clinical provision be rightly make by clinician in local area across the country . more generally , we be invest in more oncologist , radiologist and community diagnostic centre , which be contribute to cancer treatment be at record level , but I will of course ensure that he and colleague get a meeting with the Secretary of State . Radical Islamists pose a serious threat to our nation ' s security . I agree with my right hon . friend the Prime Minister that we must urgently address that , but report that the Government wish to broaden the definition of extremism be concern , because in separate the definition of extremism from actual violence and harm , we may criminalise people with a wide range of legitimate view and have a chilling effect on free speech . will my right hon . friend reassure I that , instead of try to police people ' s thought and speech — as Opposition Members clearly wish to do — the Government will target specific group that foster terrorism and those who fund they ? my hon . friend make a good point . that be why the strategy , which I urge she to wait for , will be one that she can support . it be our duty to ensure that the Government have the tool to tackle the threat that she rightly identify and highlight . this be absolutely not about silence those with private and peaceful belief , and nor will it impact free speech , which we on this side of the House will always strive to protect . child deserve the right to breathe clean air , but many school be in area with high level of air pollution . Sadiq Khan , the Mayor of London , have announce a pilot for 200 of London ' s most impact school to access air quality filter so that child can breathe clean air in their classroom . do the Prime Minister support that pilot , and will he implement similar measure across our country ? I be pleased that the late publish figure show that air pollution have reduce significantly since 2010 , partly due to our legally bind target to reduce concentration . they will continue to reduce over the follow year . on top of that , we have also provide almost £ 1 billion to help local authority across the country to implement local plan to reduce nitrogen dioxide and to ensure that we can help those impact by those plan . I understand that the late scheme be consider be to pay migrant thousand of pound to leave Britain . let we just leave the european convention on human right and deport they for free . so far , more than 40 , 000 brit have sign my petition with the Conservative Post call for we to leave the echr . will the Prime Minister commit to leave the echr or , at the very least , have it in our manifesto to have a referendum and let Britain decide ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we must do everything we can to secure our border and ensure that those who come here illegally do not have the ability to stay . that be why our Rwanda scheme and legislation be so important . as I have say repeatedly and will happily say to she again , I will not let a foreign court block our ability to send people to Rwanda when the time come . the National Theatre ' s production " Nye " , which star Michael Sheen , celebrate at its end the transformational increase in life expectancy since the founding of the NHS . however , University College London finding indicate that austerity policy between 2010 and 2019 be responsible for a three - year setback in life expectancy progress . do the Prime Minister , or the Leader of the Opposition for that matter , think that public service can withstand an extra £ 20 billion of cut ? first , I be pleased that the National Theatre receive significant funding from the Chancellor in the recent Budget to support its fantastic work across the UK . however , I be surprised to hear the right hon . Lady raise the NHS , when her party be prop up the Welsh Labour Government , who have absolutely the bad NHS performance of any part of the United Kingdom . may I thank my right hon . friend the Prime Minister for meet I six week ago to discuss the plight of victim of covid - 19 vaccine damage ? follow that discussion , and his very sympathetic response during the GB News " People ' s Forum " to Mr John Watt , who be himself a victim of covid - 19 vaccine damage , will the Government be support my Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill this Friday ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue and for the conversation I have with he . I extend my sympathy to all those who have be affect . I will of course ensure that he can meet the Secretary of State to discuss his Bill . we be , as I commit to he , look at the issue in some detail to ensure that our policy be provide the support that be need . the Prime Minister stand outside Downing Street and say that he want to root out hate and extremism , yet shamefully it take he more than 24 hour to finally say that the remark by the Tories ' big donor that look at the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) make you " want to hate all black woman " be indeed racist . in November , the Prime Minister accept a non - cash donation to the tune of £ 15 , 000 from Frank Hester for the use of his helicopter , so will he reimburse he — yes or no ? no , Mr Speaker . I be pleased that the gentleman be support a party that represent one of the most diverse government in this country ' s history , lead by this country ' s first british asian Prime Minister . I look forward to voting later today for a tax cut for thousand of my constituent ; a national insurance tax cut that will mean £ 900 off the tax bill of thousand of my constituent . after listen to the rhetoric from the Leader of the Opposition today , do the Prime Minister expect that the main Opposition party will vote against this afternoon ' s tax cut ? my hon . friend raise an excellent question , because while Conservative member believe in a country where hard work be reward and people can keep more of their hard - earn money — which be why we be cut their taxis by an average of £ 900 each — we hear consistently from Labour Members that they not only disagree with that approach , but continue to cling to unfunded spending promise that would put taxis up . also , just yesterday the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , describe our plan to end the double taxation on work as " morally abhorrent " . that be the contrast between we and they : labour will put your taxis up , and the Conservatives will keep cut they . many of his Back Benchers — and now , it seem , the Prime Minister himself — have take to refer to the European Court of Human Rights as a foreign court , as if there be something inherently wrong with thing be foreign , or people be foreign . in what way can a court that the UK have belong to since 1953 , and which have an irish president and a UK justice with an llb from the University of Dundee , be consider foreign ? the House need to hear the Prime Minister commit today to the UK ' s continued membership of a court and convention that have protect our right and freedom for over 70 year . when it come to the issue of tackle illegal migration , when Parliament express a clear view on what it believe should happen and support that with legislation , and when we believe that we be act in accordance with all our international obligation , I have be very clear that I will not let a foreign court stop we from send illegal migrant to Rwanda . that be the right policy and , in fact , the only way to ensure the security of our border and end the unfairness of illegal migration . as a general election be not merely an expression of opinion but a serious choice , do my right hon . friend agree that there be only one potential party of government that have the will , the inclination and the determination to stop mass illegal and legal migration , and that be the conservative party ? let we unite our movement and do that . I agree with my right hon . friend entirely . we know this because not only have the Leader of the opposition oppose the scheme , but he have be clear that even when the scheme be implement and work , he would still scrap it . that tell we everything we need to know : on this issue , Labour ' s value be simply not those of the british people . there be only one party that be go to stop the boat : the conservative party . on this Conservative Government ' s watch , Thames Water have dump over 72 billion litre of sewage into London ' s river , all while rack up multi - billion - pound debt , and it be now report that Thames Water could go bust any day . despite this , the Government be still refuse to publish their contingency plan for the collapse of our country ' s big water firm . do the Prime Minister believe that Thames Water will still exist by the end of the year — yes or no ? it would not be right for I to comment on individual company , but what I can say be that our ambitious storm overflow reduction plan be back by £ 60 billion of capital investment . we now monitor every single storm overflow across England , and we have legislate to introduce unlimited penalty on water company that breach their obligation . the independent regulator and the Environment Agency have the power they need to hold water company , wherever they be , to account . later this year , a new digital EU border system will come in , yet key change that be require and key detail have still not be decide by the EU . urgent decision be need on additional funding and preparation to keep Dover clear and traffic move through Kent . can my right hon . friend the Prime Minister assure I that this issue be be take seriously at the high level of Government , and that funding and support will be make available to keep Dover clear , support the resident of Dover and Deal — and Kent — and secure our vital cross - channel trade and tourism ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue , and I assure she that it be be discuss at the high level of Government between UK Ministers and our EU and french counterpart to make sure that we have practical and constructive solution that will ease the flow of traffic in the way that she describe and benefit her local community . one hundred and fifty eight day , and there be no peace and no justice . there be no food , no clean water , no sanitation and no medical aid . there be just no word leave , as disease be spread and the death toll be rise , not least among child — the victim of these atrocity . it be evident that the Prime Minister ' s plan be not work , so will he change track for the sake of these child and so many more , and work to secure a bilateral , immediate ceasefire between Israel and Hamas ? I have say repeatedly that we be incredibly concerned about the grow humanitarian crisis in Gaza . too many civilian have lose their life , and nowhere near enough aid be get through . in contrast to what the hon . Lady say , actually the UK be play a lead role in alleviate that suffering . just recently , we increase the amount of aid this year to £ 100 million . just today , 150 tonne of UK aid be due to arrive in Gaza , and a full field hospital , fly from Manchester to the middle east last week , will arrive in Gaza in the come day , staff by UK and local medic to provide lifesave care . we be do absolutely everything we can , work with our ally , to bring much - need aid to the people of Gaza . will my right hon . friend join I in thank the maternity team at the Royal Cornwall Hospital at Treliske in my Truro and Falmouth constituency for all the outstanding work they have do to improve maternity service over the last few year ? their sheer hard work , along with the come new woman and child ' s hospital , mean that there be no midwifery vacancy in Cornwall , which I think he will agree be a fantastic achievement . I thank my hon . friend for highlight the improvement in maternity service at the Royal Cornwall . she be a tireless campaigner on reduce baby loss , and I commend she for her recent work on the introduction of baby loss certificate . as she know , we be commit to a new woman and child ' s hospital for her local trust in 2030 , as part of the new hospital programme . my constituent in Somerton and Frome , work together with the Langport Transport Group , submit a robust strategic business case to the Government in July 2022 for the reopening of a train station in the Somerton and Langport area . such a train station would connect over 50 , 000 people to the rail network , boost the local economy and support local people to reduce their reliance on car . almost two year on , they be still wait for a response . do the Prime Minister support this project , and can he provide confidence to my constituent that their hard work to drive this vital project forward have not be futile ? conservative in the south - west be rightly champion the reopening of local station . Cullompton and Wellington will be among the place that receive funding as a result of our decision on HS2 . it be because of that decision that we have now free up billion of pound of funding to invest in local transport across the country , and local leader will be put in charge of that money to prioritise their local need . rise — final question — Mark Francois . Prime Minister , in the 1930 , one of your less illustrious predecessor , Neville Chamberlain , so denude the british armed force of funding , until it be too late , that we fail to deter Adolf Hitler , and 50 million people tragically die in the second world war . Russia have invade Ukraine , China be threaten Taiwan , and british shipping be be attack by Houthis in the Red sea . could you please assure I , as the son of a D - day veteran , and the House of Commons that we be not go to forget the lesson of history and make the same mistake again ? I thank my right hon . friend for his tireless campaign for our armed force . he be right to champion they and the role they play . I agree with he wholeheartedly that sadly the world we be live in be become both more challenging strategically and more dangerous , and in response to those challenge we must invest more in our armed force . that be exactly what we be do , with the large uplift since the cold war recently top up with billion of pound to strengthen our nuclear enterprise and rebuild stockpile . my right hon . Friend rightly mention the threat pose by the Houthis and by Russia in Ukraine . I know that he will be proud of the role that the United Kingdom be play in both those situation . we be respect and value by our ally . most importantly , we on the Government side of the House will do whatever it take to keep our country safe . gas - fire Power Stations ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero to make a statement on the Government ' s plan to build new gas - fire power station . the second consultation of the review of electricity market arrangement be launch yesterday . it set out the choice that we need to make to deliver a fully decarbonise electricity system by 2035 . since 2010 , the Government have reduce emission from power by 65 % and thus make the UK the first major economy in the world to halve emission overall . we have build record volume of renewable , from less than 7 % of electricity supply in 2010 to nearly 50 % today , allow we to remove coal altogether by October this year . our success in grow renewable be the reason we need flexible back - up for when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine . our main source of flexible power today be unabated gas . More than half of our 15 GW of combine - cycle gas turbine could be retire by 2035 . meanwhile , electricity demand be set to increase as heat , transport and industry be electrify . we must ensure that we have sufficient source of flexibility in place to guarantee security of supply . we need up to 55 GW of short - duration flexibility and between 30 and 50 GW of long - duration flexibility . our aim be for as much of that capacity as possible to be low carbon . while low - carbon technology scale up , we will extend the life of our exist gas asset , but a limited amount of new build gas capacity will also be require in the short term to replace expire plant as it be the only mature technology capable of provide sustained flexible capacity . we remain committed to deliver a fully decarbonise electricity supply by 2035 , subject to security of supply , and we expect most new gas capacity to be build net zero - ready . the Government have commit £ 20 billion to carbon capture , usage and storage , and be develop comprehensive support for hydrogen . in the future , unabated gas plant will run for only a limited number of hour a year , so emission will be entirely in line with our legally bind carbon budget . I be a bit tired of this Government shun any scrutiny of their climate record and instead rely on a past record , because while the UK may indeed be the first major economy to cut its territorial emission by half since 1990 , we be not on track to achieve our 2030 target , and if we factor in consumption emission , the UK have cut emission by only 23 % . so let ' s have a little less complacency from the Minister . he will know that the Government ' s announcement on new gas - fire power station do in fact , contrary to what he claim , risk undermine our climate target and leave the country reliant on import of expensive gas . member should have be give the opportunity to question the Minister on its implication for the decarbonisation of the UK ' s energy system by 2035 , with 95 % of UK electricity be low carbon by 2030 . first , why be the statement not make in Parliament ? why be it make instead at Chatham House , where member be not able to question the Minister on the impact of this decision ? secondly , will the Minister explain how this proposal differ from the functioning of the exist capacity market , or will he admit that it be just the Government ' s late attempt to stoke a culture war on climate ? thirdly , the Climate Change Committee be clear that no new unabated gas plant should be build after 2030 , so what be the Government ' s timeline for develop these new gas - fire power station ? I ask the Minister about this yesterday in the Environmental Audit Committee ; I do not get a response . I also ask he what be be do to ensure that these gas plant be zero carbon by 2035 ; that be not set out either in the Secretary of State ' s speech yesterday or by the Minister today . the Minister do tell the Environmental Audit Committee that the plant would be require to be both carbon capture and storage - ready and hydrogen - ready . that do not amount to a meaningful plan , so will he please give we more than his thus far unevidenced word of assurance , and will he explain what the Government ' s plan be to support the development of battery and long - term storage technology and to drive innovation so that we can get off volatile gas for good ? it be rather odd to be ask about the ability to scrutinise this , when yesterday be the launch of a consultation that will go on for some time and , as the hon . Lady know , I be in front of the Select Committee yesterday . it be rather strange that she should highlight that point . the hon . Lady be confused , as she often be , because she be so political . she would appear to set politic always ahead of climate . she struggle to recognise that that United Nations framework convention on climate change rule be about territorial emission — country own the emission in the territory where they take place . her number on embed emission be wrong , but she do not care about that ; she just carry on with a political diatribe against the Government , who have do more than any other in any major economy on this Earth to decarbonise their economy . and we have do it not as the hon . Lady would have we do it — by be reduce to live in yurt — but while grow the economy by 82 % . it be people like the hon . Lady who make people on my side of the Chamber at time think that we be perhaps engage in some form of madness ; we be not , but she doesn ' t half make it sound like we be . can these new gas plant be consistent with the Government ' s commitment to decarbonise the power sector by 2035 ? our publish net zero scenario for the power sector — I invite the hon . Lady to read they — show that build new gas capacity be consistent with decarbonise electricity by 2035 . from those scenario we expect that , even with new gas capacity , rather than the 38 % of electricity generation which in 2022 come from gas , that figure will be down to 1 % by 2035 — or , if we follow the scenario set out by the Climate Change Committee , perhaps 2 % . we be go to have that as a back - up . it be sensible insurance ; it be about keep the light on while we carry on the remarkable transformation this Government have achieve in move from the appalling legacy of the Labour party of less than 7 % of electricity come from renewable to nearly 50 % today . the announcement on gas - fire power station be extremely welcome , but at the moment a kilowatt - hour of electricity in the UK cost 44 cent , against 17 cent in the US and 8 cent in both China and India . we have become fundamentally uncompetitive because of this green obsession . we want cheap electricity and we should have gas and we should have coal , and we should postpone net zero indefinitely because we be only 1 % of global emission . we be make no difference , and the US economy be grow consistently fast than our because of cheap energy . this be a good first step against the net zero obsession . we need to go far . I would chide my right hon . friend with the science and evidence that be emerge all the time . there be a climate challenge and emergency , which be why we be look to reduce our emission . he be quite right to challenge that by say , " we be less than 1 % of global emission , so how do this make sense ? " that be why we host COP26 and get the rest of the world to commit to follow we . we be bring in the carbon border adjustment mechanism from 2027 precisely to ensure that we create an economically rational system that support job in this country , while meet the climate challenge that need to be meet . I call the shadow Minister . I be little puzzled about what all this be about . the Committee on Climate Change and all credible energy expert have say that we will need a small residual of unabated gas in the system for the medium term , and that be consistent with a fully decarbonise power system . no one dispute that , and it be barely worth an announcement . we should extend the life of exist plant to meet that need . if new - build plant be need in the short term to replace some of those retire gas - fire power station , there be no disagreement , provide they be capable of convert to hydrogen or carbon capture , as the Government say they must be . however , that be not what the Secretary of State say yesterday at the Chatham House meeting . the Government ' s own analysis publish yesterday show that 24 GW of exist gas capacity could be maintain via life extension and refurbishment , and 9 GW of new capacity be already in the baseline under exist capacity market arrangement . that be an uncontroversial position and analysis , and hardly something worth make a huge fuss about . but again , that be not what the Secretary of State talk about at yesterday ' s Chatham House conference . give that analysis , could the Minister enlighten we with the number of new gas plant that the Government be hope to build , give there be no mention of that in the 1 , 500 page of document that be publish yesterday ? that be an important point , because it appear to show the Government ' s intention to go beyond what be already in the analysis and build a large number of new gas - fire power station for the future . there be a great deal in the review of electricity market arrangement publish yesterday that be worth discuss , not least the Government ' s glare failure to bring forward low - carbon flexible technology such as long - duration storage , which everyone know we will need . it be a shame that the Minister have not properly address that . will he give we clarity on whether this be a meaningless announcement within exist policy arrangement ? or , as have be say , be it an attempt to conjure a culture war out of climate and energy policy , with announcement with no substance or value that show that the Government have no serious plan for energy in our country ? the hon . Gentleman ask whether new power plant will be hydrogen or carbon capture , utilisation and storage ready ; we will legislate to make that a requirement . he ask how much there will be ; around 5 GW , but that be dependent on so many interrelated thing , such as the growth of low - carbon and flexible storage , which , as he refer to we be a world leader in develop and support both in innovation and through the capacity market . he suggest that none of that be clear yesterday , but it be make crystal clear . we be a world leader , have announce £ 20 billion for CCUS . the hon . Gentleman will remember , because he have be around a long time , that in 2003 the then Labour Government say that carbon capture , utilisation and storage be urgent and that there be no route to 2050 without it , but then they proceed to do nothing about it . this government be get on with it . we be put our money where our mouth be and develop technology such as carbon capture and hydrogen , in a way that the Labour Government fail to do — as they do with renewable , to boot . all they do be talk about climate , but the truth be that the great climate risk to this country be if the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) destroy the market and start some state - run quango , which will wreck the renewable growth that we have see . I welcome the announcement . the independent Committee on Climate Change recognise that we will need unabated gas in the electricity market right up until 2035 and beyond , and more widely that even in 2050 , 25 % of our energy need will come from hydrocarbon . do my right hon . friend agree that this be exactly the right way to maintain low energy production cost , while still meet our net zero target ? I do agree with my hon . friend . the point be to have a wide range of back - up capacity , but not to use it very much with fossil fuel , and , as I think have long be the case , to ensure that any new gas generation should be carbon capture - ready . we look forward to it be hydrogen - ready , too . we be in a very similar position to Germany and other country that be look at exactly that . for instance , I think both Germany and Ireland , as part of their growth in renewable , recognise the need for gas , albeit use less and less , to ensure that the light stay on and there be appropriate insurance in place . I call the SNP spokesperson . what a cluster — it be unbelievable that we be in this situation . in the Secretary of State ' s letter to Members today , she say that the Government be take step to make sure the light stay on . that be the legacy of 14 year of the Conservatives in charge of energy . uncomfortably , I find myself in agreement with the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) . this be a significant departure , and one we should be alarmed about . where be the Government ' s precious nuclear baseload now ? where be the exemplar of CCUS work at the necessary scale , from which the Government be take inspiration ? would it not have be an elegant solution to have unabated gas wind down at the same time as battery storage and long - duration pump storage be wind up ? we can not have that , because the Government have drag their foot on both thing . what do the Minister say to people who be have infrastructure for transmission put throughout their community and be be tell to suck it up because that be what we need to get gas out the system , when the same Government be now build gas - fire power station ? the hon . Gentleman , who be suppose to lead on this subject for his party , should have listen to what I say early . in 2022 , 38 % of generation come from gas . by the mid - 2030 , it will be 1 % or 2 % . why be we have it ? to balance the renewable we be grow , particularly in Scotland , and support scottish job . of course if we put generation in Scotland when the demand be in the south , we have to provide connect infrastructure . previous generation have to wire up the UK to become the rich and prosperous country we be today . we need to do it again now . we be work with local community , listen to their voice and make sure they be not mislead by people who come up with such nonsense as the hon . Gentleman just do . I commend my right hon . friend for his refreshingly clear articulation of our strong record in this area , both in the House today and in the medium yesterday . obviously , security of supply must come first . how will the plan incentivise investment in back - up gas - fire power station , while minimise cost to consumer , which be also very important ? I thank my hon . friend . he and my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) be absolutely right to focus on the economic . we have to get the economic right . we have use an auction - type mechanism in the capacity market to ensure flexible capacity . we be incentivise more and more of that to be low carbon , with battery come in at scale , as well as pump and potentially hydrostorage . we also need hydrogen and carbon capture . we be ensure a balanced system with discipline build into it to drive cost down . when cbam and so on come on stream , I firmly expect that in the 2030 we will have low - cost energy than our neighbour and we will , as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset refer to , be more economically competitive . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker — tapadh leibh . it be concern that this be announce in Chatham House and not here in the House , and that the Secretary of State be not here today . off - piste speech have cost in the past . my Committee hear this morning that an Energy Minister make a speech a decade ago that , with the effect it have on investment , cost 1 , 000 job . the Minister say that this be a consultation , but have the Government pick a winner ? what room have they give for storage to be in the mix ? be they confuse energy security — we have learn from the Ukraine war important how that be — with continual electricity supply ? give what the Minister say about the percentage of gas use by 2030 and after , what percentage of capacity will this provide , and what percentage do he envisage will be use day to day ? what thought have be give to consideration of other technology in his gigawatt demand ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I suggest , on different scenario , about 1 % or 2 % of total generation come from gas in future , compare with 38 % in 2022 , on an annualise basis . clearly , as the hon . Gentleman should know well than anybody here with his deep knowledge of the subject , it be base on intermittency . it depend on how much the sun shine and how much the wind blow , but we will ensure we have a robust system . that be exactly what we be do . I would love it if people could celebrate this country ' s global leadership and the fact that we be drive this forward , especially those such as member of the Green party , who be suppose to care about climate change . we be do this in a way that maintain security of supply and , by bring in more and more renewable , with the low - cost and most flexible system to back it up , do so in a more and more economical fashion . I welcome the announcement today . it be pure common sense . when the wind be not blow and the sun be not shine , we need security of supply . although we need to deal with climate change in the medium to long term , we must also deal with security of supply in the short term , so I welcome the announcement . do the Minister agree that for medium and long - term security of supply , we must upscale what we be do in the hydrogen sector , with more hydrogen production and usage , and be a world leader in hydrogen ? for the moment , we be slip behind a bit . I agree with my hon . friend about the importance of hydrogen . where I disagree with he be that , have see the project in hydrogen allocation round 1 — eight project , I think — I do not think there be any indication that we be slip behind . the truth be that the whole world need to do this , because everyone ' s analysis , from the International Energy Agency to the Climate Change Committee to my own Department , suggest that hydrogen and carbon capture be necessary to bring about the decarbonise system we seek . he be absolutely right on the importance of hydrogen . he can expect more development , because this country be lead on that , as it be on CCUS . I have a great deal of respect for the Minister and his knowledge of the subject , and the fact that he , like most of we in this Chamber , recognise the need to cut carbon . I be sure he be not one of those who , like the right hon . member for North East Somerset , would follow the flat earther . but clearly , a great deal of trust and reliance be be put on carbon capture and storage , and on hydrogen . both be still quite new technology . we have talk about this stuff for 25 year . the Minister seemingly forget that this Government have be in power for the past 14 year and we be still not off the block on hydrogen and carbon capture and storage . be it not the case that the Government be take this position because it be a nod and a wink to the gas and oil industry whose support they will probably need before the election this year , and that this be part of the whole agenda of placate the right wing of his own party ? I be with the hon . Gentleman nearly all the way . he be right : the whole world be look at carbon capture and hydrogen , because that be what the science say . everybody who analyse it say that we need it bur that it be not yet at a great level of maturity . just as in so many other area , this country be lead the way . we have cut emission more than anyone else . he know the dire legacy leave by his party in 2010 , with less than 7 % of electricity from renewable , which be just appalling , and the real danger if we go back to that . that be why we have gas power as a back - up , so that we have a completely sound system . we will seek to deliver a decarbonise system by 2035 . the big risk to that would be if the right hon . member for Doncaster North be to come in and start to mess with a system that have lift we from the back to the front of climate leadership . that be the real danger , and that be what we need to avoid . will my right hon . friend stop by South Derbyshire , specifically the Willington site , which already have plan permission for a new gas power station , and cut the ribbon when it open ? we want spade in the ground , so I welcome the announcement . I invite he to come and have a look at that site , which be ready to go . I agree with my hon . friend and I applaud those who be invest in our system . we have make ourselves one of the most investable country in the world for clean energy . Gas have an important part to play in that balance , and with the development of carbon capture and hydrogen there be every opportunity for such asset to have an even long life in a green fashion . I would love to come and see my hon . friend . oil and gas be the energy source of the past , and we need an intermittent energy source . gas power plant be not intermittent . they sit there , and then because there be too much renewable energy it be shut off , and gas — the carbon energy — continue to flow . that be the reality of today : we be waste renewable energy . the Government do not recognise that reality , and do not respond to it . my question be this , however . how many time have Ministers meet representative of the oil and gas industry , and how do that compare with the number of meeting with representative of the renewable industry ? as so often — the hon . Lady do it spectacularly well — she be completely and utterly wrong . renewable be turn off , as she would say , because of constraint within the system , and gas be turn on because the system could not cope otherwise . that be why we have the transmission acceleration action plan and the connection action plan . [ interruption . ] every time we try to build out the infrastructure , the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) oppose it . he say that he and the Scottish National party want to be a friend of the renewable industry and scottish job , but then he oppose the infrastructure that be require for it . what about my question ? I meet representative of the oil and gas industry a lot , because the truth be that even give our world leadership — and we have cut emission by more than any other major economy on the planet — 75 % of our primary energy today be still from oil and gas . we will still be dependent on oil and gas in 2050 , when we be at net zero . that be why it be so crazy that the opposition party , include that of the hon . Lady , believe in oppose licence when we be actually dependent on the product . all that end licence would do be lead to the loss of british job and the import of high - emission product from abroad . I really do hope that Opposition Members will think a bit more deeply and we can hear some common sense . I hear it in the corridor from Back Benchers , but from the Front Benchers and the hon . Lady I hear nothing but nonsense . I welcome this policy decision , which be a recognition of reality . can the Minister confirm that the new plant will be able to convert to low - carbon alternative in the future ? I thank my hon . friend . we will be legislate precisely to create exactly that obligation for carbon capture and / or hydrogen readiness . I hope that this decision be indicative of a realisation that seem to be slowly dawn on the Government about the impact of the madness of their net zero policy , which have damage the UK economy . we have high electricity price than most of the other G7 country , we have lose vast number of job in energy - intensive industry , and now it have be recognise that because of the intermittency of wind and solar there be a risk of blackout . I welcome this common - sense decision , but give that we be go to use gas to power these station , why do the Minister not take the next logical step and legislate to allow we to tap into our vast UK gas resource ? as the United States have show , that would bring down price , give we energy security , and make our economy more competitive . the right hon . Gentleman could not be more wrong : we have record level of employment , and we overtake France recently to become the eighth large manufacturer in the world . I would not expect he to join the dismal party opposite in talk this country down . in truth , we be lead the world in tackle climate change , and we have create more job than at any time in british history . go forward into the 2030 , by harness more and more british low - carbon , renewable energy we will lower bill for family and increase our competitiveness . as I have say , in a world that be increasingly recognise the need for action and seek to introduce measure such as the carbon border adjustment mechanism — effectively , carbon taxis at the border — the UK be in pole position to grow from its already strong economic position into an even strong one as a result of the net zero policy of this Government . across London and the south - east , many much - need development that be require for the increase population have literally be freeze because of a lack of supply from the grid . nuclear power can provide the baseload ; renewable be unreliable , and obviously gas be require at peak time in particular . do my right hon . friend agree that this be all about top up the grid at peak time , when people want to use electricity , because gas be the fast way to bring a power station on to the grid and be also the fast to shut down ? my hon . friend will be aware of all the work we be do to speed up transmission . we be halve the timeline from 12 to 14 year to seven , and the connection action plan have already move forward connection date for project amount to 40 GW . we be put in a lot of work across the piece . this gas capability be there as a back - up , but the usage and the emission result from it will fall precipitately over the next 10 year , and we can all celebrate that . after their year of delay meaningful investment in clean , cheap , reliable renewable energy technology such as tidal and long - duration pump hydro storage , it be no surprise that the Government be now have to scramble to create new dirty gas - power plant . how much do the Department estimate the new plant will cost , where be it suggest they should be build , and what do the Minister mean by carbon - capture - ready ? do he mean carbon - capture - operational ? hear , hear . do tell ! as I have say , further legislation will come forward in the not - too - distant future , and the hon . Lady will be able to scrutinise it — but it be extraordinary that she should say of a country whose renewable energy generation have rise from less than 7 % to approach 50 % that we have go slow on renewable . we have decarbonise our power system fast than any other major economy on the planet . the reality denial that we hear from the Scottish National party be quite extraordinary . the hon . Lady highlight tidal energy . well , guess which country in the world use the most tidal energy . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , who be one of the great champion of tidal , could tell the hon . Lady , if she be really so ignorant . he be a fellow Scottish MP , and he could tell she that the UK have more tidal deployment than any other nation . we be proud of that , we be proud of the transformation , and it be about time the SNP and the Labour party stop mislead the people and the House . the Minister say early that we face a climate challenge , after struggle for word to describe what we be face . why can the Government not join the global consensus and admit that what we be face be a climate emergency ? as the Secretary - General of the United Nations have say , the year of climate warming be over and we be in an era of climate burning . unlike the hon . Gentleman , I be not primarily concerned with word — I be primarily concerned with action — but in fact I do use the " emergency " word . I do not know whether I break some golden rule which say that Ministers should not use it , but I do treat this as an emergency . I see the world warm up , I see the negative impact of climate change , and that be why I spend every single day feel proud to be part of the Department that be decarbonise its country fast than any other in the world . the hon . Gentleman should get away from rhetoric and start to focus on action . I thank the Minister for all his answer . while there be certainly an urge to prioritise our net zero promise , I be grateful to the Government for take back - up precaution into consideration . as the Minister have often recognise in respond to question from I , Northern Ireland play an important role in our contribution to meet the net zero target . will he therefore ensure that Northern Ireland be prioritise as a lead location for any new gas - power station that be to be build ? the hon . Gentleman sometimes give the impression that he would like I to be run the energy system in Northern Ireland , but it be devolve — and we have Ministers there again , which be a cause for celebration . I will work closely with Ministers in Northern Ireland , as I do with Ministers in other devolved administration , because if we be to meet our net zero target , Northern Ireland must deliver its own target . Scotland have to deliver its target , as do Wales . we must work together , in a spirit of collaboration . we can do that , and if the hon . Gentleman can persuade his right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , who be sit beside he , that it can be do in a way that strengthen our economy as well , we really will have something to celebrate . Post Office Legislation with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall make a statement about Post Office legislation and the Horizon redress scheme . I be very pleased to be able to announce that today we be introduce a new Bill that will quash the conviction of postmaster in England and Wales affect by the Horizon scandal . as set out in my write statement last month , this legislation will quash all conviction that meet a clear set of condition . those in scope will have their conviction quash on the day that the new legislation be bring into force . subject to parliamentary passage , our aim be for Royal Assent to be receive as soon as possible before the summer recess . we accept , and have always be clear , that the legislation may overturn the conviction of some people who be guilty of genuine wrongdoing , but we believe this be a price worth pay to ensure that many innocent people be exonerated . however , the Government will seek to mitigate the risk of people receive financial redress when they have not be wrong . the Government also accept that this legislation be unprecedented . it be an exceptional response to a factually exceptional situation . I want to be clear that this do not set a precedent , and neither be it a criticism of the judiciary or the court , which have deal swiftly with matter bring before they . the fact remain , however , that three year after the first conviction be overturn , only around 100 have be quash . without Government intervention , many of these conviction could not be overturn , either because all the evidence have long be lose or because , quite simply , postmaster have lose faith in the state and the criminal justice system , and will not come forward to seek justice . the legislation will apply to England and Wales only . however , we be fully commit to work with the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive through regular , weekly official - level engagement to progress their own approach . I have meet my counterpart in the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive to offer support and address their concern , and I will have further meeting . the financial redress scheme will be open to applicant throughout the UK , once conviction have be overturn . I thank the Business and Trade Committee , which recently publish a report that include some recommendation for the Government regard Horizon redress . we will respond to they in the usual way , but today I would like to address two of the Committee ' s recommendation . the first be that responsibility for redress should not lie with the Post Office , as it should be subject to independent oversight — something that have also be recommend to we by the Horizon compensation advisory board . I can announce today that the Department for Business and Trade , rather than the Post Office , will be responsible for the delivery of redress for overturn conviction . final decision on redress will be make by independent panel or independent individual . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I shall return to the House at a later date to provide detail on how we intend to deliver redress for those who have their conviction overturn by the Bill or via subsequent measure take in Scotland and Northern Ireland . we be discuss the detail with the advisory board . the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) , will introduce legislation to make any payment make via the new scheme exempt from tax . secondly , the Select Committee recommend that the Government introduce legally bind timeframe to deliver redress for sub - postmaster , with financial penalty for non - compliance . I strongly support the Committee ' s desire to speed up redress , but we feel that its propose regime would have the opposite impact . it would potentially mean impose penalty on forensic accountant or other who be help postmaster to prepare their claim . do that would probably cause some of they to withdraw from this work , which would slow down the delivery of redress . furthermore , we do not want to be in the position of rush postmaster into major decision about their claim and the offer they receive , which would possibly mean that some be time out of redress altogether . the advisory board have say that its " strong view " be that " this would be a backward step " , which be why we pass legislation less than two month ago to remove the arbitrary deadline from the group litigation order scheme . we do not want to reverse that change . however , the Government be act to ensure that redress be deliver as quickly as possible . first , we be work with claimant ' lawyer to reduce the number of case that require expert evidence — for example , from forensic accountant — or medical evidence , which delay claim . we will pilot that approach and , assume that the pilot succeed , we hope to expand it rapidly . secondly , the advisory board and I have ask for monthly report on each scheme . they will come from scheme ' independent case manager , where such manager be in place . we will publish the report , which will give we the good basis on which to assess measure for speed up redress . finally , we be introduce optional fix - sum award . in January , the Government announce that they would offer an optional fix - sum award of £ 75 , 000 to those in the group litigation order scheme . as of 5 March , 110 offer have be accept , and over 100 people have take the £ 75 , 000 fix payment . of those who have accept the fix payment , three quarter be new claimant , so the fix offer have already mean that over 100 claim have be resolve promptly . in some case , those people will have get more than they would have ask for . the fix offer have also have a helpful effect on other claim , because it substantially reduce work on small claim by claimant ' lawyer , make more resource available to progress large claim more quickly . I be pleased to announce today that the £ 75 , 000 fix - sum award offer will now be extend to the Horizon shortfall scheme , to ensure that everyone be treat fairly across all the scheme . those who have already settle their claim below £ 75 , 000 will be offer a top - up to bring their total redress to that amount ; over 2 , 000 postmaster will benefit quickly from this announcement . we be mindful that claim be not be submit to the GLO scheme as swiftly as we would like . we have already announce the optional fix - sum award of £ 75 , 000 , but to ensure that we get help to claimant more quickly , I can announce today that anyone who choose not to take that offer , and instead submit a full claim for individual assessment , will have their interim payment top up to £ 50 , 000 straight away . many postmaster ' life have be ruin by the Horizon scandal , and we be work hard to deliver redress . we have set up the Williams inquiry , which will discover the truth . we will provide fair financial redress as promptly as we can , and we will exonerate those who be so unjustly convict of crime that they do not commit . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . before I respond to it , I would like to put on the record my deep disappointment at the Minister ' s comment this morning on " BBC Breakfast " . he fail to categorically condemn the Tory party donor Frank Hester ' s horrific and racist remark about the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) . despite No . 10 finally , after much delay , describe the remark as " racist and wrong " , the Minister appear to contradict that position this morning . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . this be a statement on Post Office legislation . may I respectfully say that what the hon . Lady be say be irrelevant to this statement ? the shadow Minister will be move on . I will move on . I simply hope that the Minister will reflect on the reversal of the statement he give this morning , in which he take the position that he would take a donation from that donor . I hope he reflect on the impact that the issue be have on many of we . I turn to today ' s crucial statement . the Horizon scandal be truly shocking , and be one of the most devastating miscarriage of justice in british history . the scandal have bring devastation to the life of hundred of falsely convict sub - postmaster . over 20 year on , they and their family still suffer from the consequence and the trauma of all that they have be put through . I pay tribute to they for their determination in pursue justice , and to Alan Bates and the sub - postmaster who pioneer the campaign and work tirelessly to seek justice . without their bravery and perseverance , the campaign would not be where it be today . I also pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for all his work , to Lord Arbuthnot for his campaigning on this issue for many year , to other in this House and the other House , and to member of the Business and Trade Committee and its Chair , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . we of course welcome the legislation that be be lay before Parliament today , but before give a full verdict on it , we will need to properly scrutinise the detail and analyse its potential impact . in the first instance , the legislation leave a series of outstanding issue , and the question of when justice and compensation will be deliver , and to whom . first , I will address the territorial scope of the legislation , which currently apply only to England and Wales , even though the Post Office be not devolve , and the Horizon system and the impact of the scandal be UK - wide . approximately 30 case need overturn in Scotland and Northern Ireland , but a series of outstanding question remain as to when sub - postmaster in Scotland and particularly Northern Ireland will receive justice and compensation . I welcome the Minister ' s assurance that there will be regular dialogue with the devolved administration , but I would be grateful if he provide more detail on how that will work in practice , give the different legal process . as we know , 80 % of the redress budget be yet to be pay out . there remain considerable uncertainty about when sub - postmaster will receive their compensation . I be sure that we can all agree that they have wait long enough , and the delay be cause further financial distress and suffering . we note the Business and Trade Committee ' s recommendation that there be a legally bind timeframe for the period between an offer be first table and a settlement be reach . if those legally bind target be not adopt , what assurance can the Minister give that he will meet his target of ensure that all compensation be out of the door by the end of the year ? what mechanism will he put in place to ensure that there be no further delay ? I know that he be committed to ensure that there be no further delay , but sub - postmaster will want to know that this will actually happen . give the recent chaos in the Post Office ' s leadership , we welcome the decision to take the Post Office out of the redress process . as the Minister say , redress must have independent oversight . the Post Office be in disarray , and we need focus and efficiency in ensure that compensation be pay to the sub - postmaster as soon as possible . financial redress alone can not come close to repay sub - postmaster for their suffering , though it be so important that we get it right . the very least the Government can do be ensure that sub - postmaster receive fair compensation and exoneration as soon as possible . there be those impact by the scandal who have sadly pass away , and do not live to see their innocence prove or to receive the compensation that they deserve . it be vital that the Government act with the urgency and speed that be need to correct this terrible injustice . the shadow Minister ' s comment be on the record , so I shall deal with they briefly . I think this be the second time she have make comment at the Dispatch Box that have be unfair or factually incorrect , and I hope that she will correct the record . if she have actually watch the interview I give , she would know that I absolutely do condemn the word of Mr Hester . I say they be wrong . I say they be racist , and I think it be absolutely right that he have apologise . she should watch the full broadcast , and I hope that she will apologise to the House and correct the record . the point that the hon . Lady raise pertain largely to the Scottish and Northern Ireland devolve Administrations . I quite understand the concern around those issue , and I be very keen to ensure that we get this right across the United Kingdom . as she acknowledge , there be different legal process in those area , and we think it would be inappropriate for we to legislate for part of the United Kingdom that have different legal process and different prosecutor . justice be devolve , although the Post Office be a UK - wide organisation , as she rightly say . that be why we think the legislation should allow devolved administration to legislate for themselves , if they choose to . we will work closely with they . official meet they weekly to assist wherever we can , so that compensation can be deliver UK - wide ; that be how the scheme operate . I think the hon . Lady say that 80 % of compensation be yet to be deliver . I may be wrong there , so I will check the record . across all the scheme , in around two third of case , full and final compensation have already be receive . that be the case , about 2 , 000 people will be top up to £ 75 , 000 , as I announce early , but it be not right to say , as I think she do , that the majority of people be wait for compensation . the hon . Lady ask whether we want to deliver the compensation by the end of the year . absolutely we do , but as I say , not everything be in our gift . we can not compel a claimant to submit a claim , or know when that will happen . if somebody put in a claim right towards the end of the year , for example , it may not be possible to deal with it before the end of the year . not everything be in our gift , but we be keen to expedite anything that be . it be absolutely critical that we have independent oversight ; all scheme have it . in the overturn conviction scheme , we have retire High Court judge Sir Gary Hickinbottom , and the £ 600 , 000 fix - sum award ; but on Mr Hickinbottom ' s advice , we have also introduce the £ 450 , 000 payment as soon as a full claim have be submit . we be do everything we can to make sure that people be compensate as quickly as possible . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and the pragmatic way that he have look to speed up claim , and to take this in - house as good he can . I also welcome the propose legislation , and the extension of the £ 75 , 000 to those in the historical shortfall scheme . I point the Minister to an article in the Times this morning about people who may reportedly be exclude from the legislation . can he give any assurance that people who have go through this process and whose original conviction be base substantially on the Horizon problem will indeed be exonerate and therefore able to get compensation ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , for his tireless campaign in this area , and for his tireless work as my predecessor in this role . he do some great work to help we get where we be today . he be right to say there be some people who be not exonerate through this process — for example , people who have be before the Court of Appeal — but they will be able to appeal again in the light of our legislation . of course , they have the right to do that anyway , but we will support they where we can in bring forward their case to the Court of Appeal , and we very much hope that innocent people who follow that process will be exonerate . we come to Scottish National party spokesperson . thank you , Mr Speaker , and apology for be slightly late . I thank the Minister for give I prior sight of his statement . I welcome the announcement of the legislation . it will hopefully go a long way to speed up full and fair financial redress for a large number of Horizon victim , and will bring they close to justice . furthermore , I welcome the enhance financial redress for those who experience Horizon - relate shortfall , and the fact that those who have already settle for less than £ 75 , 000 will have their redress top up . I pay tribute to the Minister for his hard work on this , to the Horizon compensation advisory board for its sterling work , and to Sir Wyn Williams and his inquiry for their ongoing work . Most of all , I pay tribute to the victim , follow the unimaginable pain that they have be force to endure at the hand of Post Office Ltd and successive UK government . I hope that today ' s announcement can give they some hope , and that there be an end in sight to this sorry chapter . I welcome the administration of financial redress scheme be take out of the hand of Post Office Ltd — not before time . Post Office Ltd have demonstrate obfuscation and incompetence at every stage . from a scottish perspective — I be sure my northern irish colleague will agree with I — I be deeply disappointed that the legislation be confine to England and Wales only . that need to be address . we should include Scotland and Northern Ireland to ensure parity . the Westminster Parliament be sovereign , but the Scottish Parliament can be challenge on its legislation , and this need to be look at . the devolution process also risk slow thing down . will the Minister guarantee today that any relevant order under section 104 of the Scotland Act 1998 will be process quickly by his Government ? Scotland have no direct equivalent Minister for postal affair , as only Westminster and his Department have a remit for the Post Office . will he ensure that the Bill contain provision require Post Office Ltd to fully co - operate with the Scottish Government and to supply all need material ? it be vital that victim in Scotland and Northern Ireland do not have to wait any long for justice than their English and Welsh counterpart . victim across these isle suffer enormously at the hand of a wholly reserve institution , so complete parity be essential . I thank the hon . Lady again for all her work in this area . she have be a tireless campaigner . we would all like to be far along , but she have make an important contribution to our work . the hon . Lady be right to say that victim should be front and centre when it come to compensation , which must be deliver fairly and as quickly as possible . some of the change I have announce today , include in my statement , have be bring forward on the basis of feedback from victim and their legal representative . we be listen to they , and we will make sure that we deliver any change where we can . I fully understand the hon . Lady ' s point about Scotland and Northern Ireland , and she will understand the constitutional sensitivity of this area . these be tough decision , and I understand that Scottish Ministers will have to make similar decision . they can decide to do what we be do and , if they do , we will support they in how they legislate . give the sensitivity , we think that , where justice be devolve , the devolve administration should make the decision . I again commit to make sure that we work across the piece , wherever we can , to deliver the consistent compensation that she require , without forget that the redress scheme be UK - wide . as soon as people ' s conviction be overturn , they will be able to access compensation , just as they can in England and Wales . everyone want to see the sub - postmaster ' suffering bring to an end as swiftly as possible , and I welcome what the Minister have say about simplify and speed up the compensation scheme . he will know that claimant lawyer such as Neil Hudgell , who give evidence to the Business and Trade Committee , have real expertise in this field , and I hope he will work very closely with the sector to maximise that expertise in design the scheme . I sound one note of caution . the Minister say this be exceptional , and it be constitutionally unprecedented to overturn , through legislation , conviction impose by our court in good faith , base on the evidence before they at the time . frankly , it be most undesirable that we should ever go down that route . some of we will need to see the detail of the legislation and what evidence the Government have that it will be quick and more comprehensive to quash conviction via this constitutionally unprecedented route , rather than leave the court to deal with it , with assistance . as the Minister know , this could have be deal with via a presumption in favour of sentence be quash where they depend on Horizon evidence , rather than this wholesale measure . in particular , will he look at what impact it will have on rehabilitation of offender legislation , and at whether conviction quash by this Bill will be remove effectively so that people can , for example , travel to the United States or other foreign jurisdiction where they may need a visa , for which they need to show that they do not have an outstanding conviction ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and all his work on this subject . our engagement with he throughout the process have be very important . he have much expertise in this area . we agree that this be unprecedented and undesirable , but we believe it be the least bad option . we want to see this deliver more quickly as , of the 790 or so sub - postmaster whom we believe this legislation will affect , only around 100 conviction have so far be overturn . we think that situation be untenable , which be why we decide to take this route . of course , I will continue to work with he and listen to his wise advice . I think I be right in say that , for conviction overturn by the Court of Appeal , the record be mark " overturned by the Court of Appeal " . we foresee these record be mark in a similar way — " quash by Parliament " or something along those line . again , I be happy to engage with my hon . friend to make sure we get it right . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and thank he for the collegiate way in which he be work across the House to try to secure justice for those who have suffer . this be a welcome step forward . I be glad to see the Minister take on board some of the recommendation make in the Business and Trade Committee ' s report last week , set out how we can deliver fair , fast and independent redress . the Government have today propose how they will overturn conviction . they have take the Post Office out of some , but not all , claim processing and , crucially , they have increase the number of people who can apply for fix - term remuneration . however , the Post Office be still handle the claim of at least 100 people with overturn conviction when it be patently not fit for purpose . for those who seek to contest their claim , the Minister say there will be no legally bind timeframe between the submission of a claim and an initial offer be make by his Department , which be a problem . there be no standard tariff propose for compensation under key head of term , such as loss of reputation . that , too , be a problem . the Bill be far more than a half measure , that be true , but it be not yet a full solution . I leave the Minister with the word of Jo Hamilton , who message I last night to highlight the plight of the GLO litigant , in particular , and the way in which they " have to justify every last penny even if some of their claim be for actual monie steal from they by the Post Office … why can ' t the Government do the right thing before even more victim die ? " those word need to ring in our ear as we seek to perfect this Bill . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his comment and collaboration . it be important that we listen to his Committee ' s recommendation and its very informative evidence session — I sit through all five hour . at this point , we believe the Post Office should continue its work on the 100 or so case before it . we currently have no capacity in the Department to handle those claim , although we clearly will by the time the Bill come into effect . we do not want to pause between the Bill come into effect in July and compensation payment be make . we think we can get those payment to people in August use that route . there may be some people leave in the first tranche of overturn conviction , for people who have be through the Court of Appeal . we will certainly look at the Committee ' s recommendation on whether we should bring those case back in - house or leave they with the Post Office . we will keep an open mind on that . we already have fix timescale to respond to offer or service level agreement in the GLO scheme . we commit to respond to 90 % of full claim within 40 day of submission . I be happy to look at how we might put some benchmark in place to make sure the new scheme have a similar speed of response . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman hear what I say about our new pilot under which lawyer can submit claim without forensic accountant and medical report . that may do something along the line he say , and I will happily have an ongoing conversation with he . thus far , 128 of the 490 claim have be submit to the GLO scheme , and 110 of they have be settle . to my knowledge , only one claim have go to independent dispute resolution before go to the independent panel , which hopefully indicate that , generally , the offer be fair and have be accept almost straightaway . I understand what Jo Hamilton say , and I meet she to discuss some of the process she have to go through to prove her claim . we be determined to reduce those friction and evidence requirement , certainly for thing that be not essentially material . there be three thing that we have to get right in deliver compensation : we have to be fair to the individual and family affect ; we have to be fair to all the other sub - postmaster to make sure there be consistency across the scheme ; and , of course , we have to be fair to the taxpayer . there be no cap on what we will pay people , as long as it be fair . I thank the Minister for bring this statement to the House , as it clearly move thing in the right direction for closure . I have talk many time in this House about similar issue . the Government have put £ 1 billion aside to deal with all this , despite the fact that the Post Office have take million upon million off postmaster — innocent people . we have never have the figure of what be take , although I have ask for it before . I want a second figure , because Fujitsu have say on the record that it would help to compensate victim as well , by add to the remuneration pot . what progress have we make on make Fujitsu pay also for be culpable in this fiasco ? I thank my hon . friend for his regular contribution in this area , as it be always good to have the view of the only former serve postmaster in this House . we be look to try to identify the figure he refer to and we hope to come back to he at some point ; it be complicated , as a lot of these record go back a long way . however , that be a body of work we be undertake with the Post Office . the Secretary of State have a conversation yesterday with the global chief executive of Fujitsu ; we be keen to make sure that Fujitsu contribute and it have already say that it will — it say it have a moral responsibility to contribute . my hon . friend mention a figure of £ 1 billion , but we do not know the final figure for compensation . however , we would expect a significant element of it to come from Fujitsu . like other , I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement but , novelly , I also thank he for advance sight of the Government " top line to take " . that latter document include this passage : " so far we have identify up to around 800 case that be potentially in scope [ note : if we use this number in public we be go to get hold to it . there be a risk that we may deliver few overturn or award redress " — to — " few individual , we will then have to explain that ] " . if it be the view of official in the Minister ' s Department that accountability and transparency be some sort of problem , do he really think that they be well place to exercise oversight of the compensation scheme ? should that not be put now in the hand of someone who be independent of both Government and the Post Office ? the figure the right hon . Gentleman use and the document he reference , which I be unaware he have , be interesting . I be I , I have not read that line , although my previous comment might indicate that I have because I mention that exact figure . I be not afraid to be transparent or accountable for any of the delivery of these compensation scheme . I congratulate my hon . friend on all that he be do , work night and day to bring this painful issue to a conclusion for the many postmaster and their family who have suffer so much over so many year . where people do not accept the fix offer but wish to pursue an individual claim , may I seek his assurance that such claim will be treat expeditiously , and that resource will be make available to deal with those claim quickly and efficiently ? will he also give an assurance that claimant will have a name individual responsible for their file , rather than whoever happen to pick up the file on a specific day ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question and can absolutely give he the assurance he seek . a fix - sum award be only one route ; it be not right for everybody . some people have high level of claim , and we will support they where we can . in my remark , I announce new measure we be use to do that , include a pilot scheme where expert report be not require . that should significantly abbreviate the timescale between be able to submit a claim and get a response . as for expedite in this area , in the GLO scheme we set a target that in 90 % of case we would respond to a final claim within 40 day . currently , we be on 87 % against that measure , so we be deliver this more quickly . he make an interesting point about a name claim manager or something along those line , and , if I may , I will take that away with I . I welcome the statement , the legislation and the removal of the Post Office from the process to the extent that we have see so far . however , I do not think the Post Office be able to deal with any claim credibly . I write to the Minister on 12 February about my constituent who come forward after the tv programme . she have have problem with Horizon , have agree compensation with the Post Office , which be way below what her loss be , and have sign a non - disclosure agreement . at the time she have be deal with a terminally ill partner , who have since pass away , and so be in no fit state to take on the Post Office . she be seriously out of pocket , so I would expect she to be able to fall under the Horizon shortfall scheme . I hope that the Minister will confirm that in the letter he will doubtless send I . I have not see the letter the hon . gentleman mention yet , but I look forward to it and I understand his point about the Post Office handling claim . I be respond personally to every letter I get on this matter from colleague ; we always do that , but I be do so even more on this occasion . I be sorry to hear about his constituent and the situation she be in . if she have accept less than £ 75 , 000 , she will get an automatic uplift to £ 75 , 000 . we be determined to ensure that , across every scheme , people be treat fairly and feel that they be be treat fairly , and I be keen to look at the hon . Gentleman ' s letter and make sure that be the case for his constituent . I welcome this important new Bill . I know that the Minister and his team have work exceptionally hard to make it happen . will he join I in thank Mr James Evans from Llanfair P . G . , who work as a sub - postmaster in Llanfairpwll for 47 year , with a post office service record of 60 year , for bring together sub - postmaster and those on Ynys M ô n affect by this gross miscarriage of justice to ensure that they receive the correct support , compensation and , importantly , exoneration ? again , I thank my hon . friend for her work on this , and I absolutely thank Mr Evans . we be here now because the victim of this scandal be support each other , lead of course by Alan Bates . so I welcome Mr Evans ' s work , and if I can assist he or his group at all to make sure that they get compensate fairly , whatever their circumstance within these scheme , I be happy to do that . my constituent Mr Ennion run the post office in Llandovery in Carmarthenshire between 2000 and 2018 . in a recent BBC interview he estimate that he have lose about £ 75 , 000 , and say that , in addition , his health have deteriorate severely . he say he have no faith in the Horizon shortfall scheme and make an application to it , because he have not keep any record and because he just do not think he be well enough to take on the Post Office for a second time . I know that the Minister be work extremely hard , and I pay tribute to he for the work he have do , but what more can he do to encourage people such as Mr Ennion to make an application through the scheme ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word and for represent his constituent so effectively . I hope that what we have announce today will be absolutely the right route for his constituent , as it mean he would not have to go through what can be a complex process of submit a detailed claim ; he can simply opt for the £ 75 , 000 fix - sum award and walk away . there be no claim form to be fill in — a simple letter need to be sign and that be it . if he feel he should be compensate for more than that , he can go through the Horizon shortfall scheme . that take a little long , but he will still end up with compensation both for the financial impact and the impact on his health . I be happy to help , wherever I can , with his case . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . he promise the House that he would bring forward legislation quickly , and he have do so . however , I must express the disappointment of all Northern Ireland representative that Northern Ireland be not include in the Bill , and the reason that the Minister have give for that do not stand up . the Minister have argue that this be a sensitive constitutional issue — it be not . the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister and the Justice Minister have all make it clear that they would be quite happy for Northern Ireland to be include in the legislation . he have argue that the system be different . there have be many occasion when Northern Ireland have be include in legislation here even though the judicial system be different . this Bill be about exonerate people , not about interfere with how the system work . the last thing he say be that include Northern Ireland might slow down the legislation . since the legislation be go to go through the House follow the normal process , there be absolutely no reason why , as have happen on previous occasion , he could not include a Northern Ireland clause at a later stage in our consideration of the Bill . I ask the Minister to look again at the argument he have make , because I do not think they stand up . there be a way forward to ensure that those affect in Northern Ireland be treat in the same way , and at the same time , as those in England and Wales . I thank the hon . gentleman for all his contribution , and for represent his constituent , and other in Northern Ireland , who have be affect by the scandal . I understand his point and be very sympathetic to it . we take a very difficult decision . clearly , we be happy to work with the authority in Northern Ireland . as I say in the statement , I have speak to my counterpart in Northern Ireland . we be today introduce a 10 - clause , 10 - page Bill , and we hope we have put together a relatively straightforward piece of legislation . we be happy to lend our support so that Northern Ireland be able to do the same as we be do , if that be the choice that be make . as he have outline , that be the political consensus in Northern Ireland , which I welcome . this be a national scandal that require a national solution . as have just be state , the political leader in Northern Ireland be unanimous that they want Westminster to act in this sphere . the Minister will not be step on anyone ' s toe constitutionally if he proceed on that basis . the Justice Minister advise I that what be require to include Northern Ireland be relatively straightforward . it be not complicated in any shape or form . the stark reality be that the newly restore Executive do not have the capacity to pass such legislation at the same time as Westminster , so there will be an iniquity across the UK on this reserved matter . can I ask the Minister one more time to listen to the voice from Northern Ireland ? I understand that he say he will work with the Executive , but will he take on board what the Executive be say and include Northern Ireland in the Bill ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point . to reiterate what I say in response to early question , we be very sympathetic . we be keen to lend support , and not just moral support but help in draft the Bill . of course I will continue to listen to he and other with similar view about the involvement of the devolved administration . we be keen to make this work UK - wide . the redress scheme will be available UK - wide , if we can get those prosecution quash on a UK - wide basis . I thank the Minister and pay tribute to his perseverance in bring about a legislative change . it be fantastic to hear that the legislation will quash conviction relate to the Horizon scandal . this have be a long time come and those affect must be praise for their long journey to justice . however , unfortunately there be many who have not live to see this . what step will he take to ensure the legacy of those who be affect but have pass away will live on , and that their family be support through the redress payment scheme , to lessen the year of pain that they have endure ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his work on the issue , and for his regular contribution on this and many other matter . the legislation have take too long , as he rightly say , and sadly some people have pass away , which be terrible for the family . those people will never live to see their conviction quash and name exonerate . the redress scheme work for the estate , so if somebody have pass away , the family can come forward and submit a claim , or they can choose a fix - sum award and pursue their claim in that way , which be a quick process . that happen for family in the sad situation the hon . Gentleman outline . I be happy to work with he to ensure that we deliver for his constituent . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . can you give I some advice on how I can pursue an urgent response from the Secretary of State for Education ? I write to she on 28 February , outline urgent concern about King ' s Leadership Academy , a secondary school , be unable to open in my constituency despite the Department for Education provide a DfE unique reference number and DfE number , both of which be require for the local authority to offer in the admission brochure . the Department recently go on to instruct the local authority to remove King ' s Leadership Academy from the admission process . parent have now be inform that the academy will not open in September and their child have be allocate secondary school that be not one of their prefer choice , cause distress and logistical nightmare . it be completely unacceptable not to have receive a response on a matter of such urgency , and unacceptable for the Department not to have raise any potential issue early . I seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . as Mr Speaker have say many time , the Chair be not responsible for the content of Ministers ' answer . however , Mr Speaker have also say many time that he expect , and that Parliament expect , minister to provide timely answer to question from member . it sound as though the hon . Lady have have difficulty in that regard . although I can not answer her question , I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear what she have say and that the matter will be pass on to the relevant Minister . I can advise she that the Table Office will be able to offer guidance on how she might pursue the matter far , if she wish so to do . Bill Presented Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Kemi Badenoch , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary James Cleverly , Secretary Grant Shapps , Secretary Michelle Donelan , Secretary Claire Coutinho , Secretary Lucy Frazer and Laura Trott , present a Bill to provide for the quashing of conviction in England and Wales for certain offence allege to have be commit while the Horizon system be in use by the Post Office ; to make provision about the deletion of caution give in England and Wales for such offence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 181 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 181 - en ) . site of Special Scientific Interest ( Designation ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to transfer the power to designate site of special scientific interest from Natural England to the Secretary of State ; to make provision about the exercise of that power by the Secretary of State ; and for connected purpose . I be conscious that I stand in the way of legislation that will provide a tax cut for 29 million people , so I will not detain the House for long . site of special scientific interest be the most precious natural landscape in this country , and they be vital to our biodiversity . their importance have long be recognise — long before the word " biodiversity " be coin . for 75 year , additional protection have be give to area that be of special interest by reason of their flora , fauna or geological or physiographical feature . the current system of notification be put in place by the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 . that law , as amend , give the decision to designate an area as an SSSI to Natural England , and Natural England exist " to ensure that the natural environment be conserve , enhance , and manage for the benefit of present and future generation " . that important aim be now at the heart of Government decision making . in fact , the Environment Act 2021 go far and say that the Government as a whole must have regard to environmental principle ; not just conserve or even just enhance the natural environment , but actually restore nature . that be so , there be no long any reason for decision about the notification of sssi to be outsource . no protection would be lose if this power be transfer to the Secretary of State , which be why I be bring in this Bill . I hope that Ministers will note that the Bill be support by a former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , two former DEFRA Ministers , the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee , the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , and several other mp who have demonstrate their support for and understanding of our natural environment , and how that can be enhance in harmony with produce the food the nation need . should the Government adopt the Bill — and I hope they do — there will still be a place for Natural England in identify site for designation and collate the datum and scientific evidence , but it would be for the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to interrogate this evidence and decide whether Natural England be correct in its assessment . at the moment , Natural England be mark its own homework , and the experience of farmer in my constituency be that it could do well . last year , 3 , 044 hectare of West Penwith be confirm as a site of special scientific interest . it be no surprise that Penwith moor and down be identify as a candidate for notification . it be the most beautiful part of the world — I happen to live right on the edge — with unique heathland that provide a habitat for many rare specie , include bird such as the Dartford warbler , which have a breed population ; invertebrate such as the rare Perkin ' s mining bee and the tormentil nomad bee ; and vascular plant such as the coral necklace . it be also a man - make landscape , with a long history of agriculture and livestock grazing , with many of the 4 , 000 - year - old field system still be use for their original purpose . the farmer on the land know that the richness of Penwith moor be the result of their careful management of the land for many year , over multiple generation , and so they be shock by the high - handed way in which Natural England approach the designation . in October 2022 , SSSI notification pack land on the doormat of landowner and farmer , and , contrary to our expectation , close to 1 , 000 acre of clean land — pasture , paddock and land on which crop or even animal feed could be grow — be include . the notification document do not include clear evidence or reason why their clean land have be include . it become very clear that Natural England ' s case rely on scientific evidence that be not much more than desktop study and old survey datum . to take an example , after Natural England ' s hear last year , which I attend , its expert admit that they do not have evidence to include the 700 - plus acre of good pasture farmland — by this time , more than 200 acre have be successfully challenge by landowner and remove from the SSSI — and that the only reason for include clean land be " the potential for pollution " . probably even less clean land would have be include have all landowner have the fund to mount a legal challenge . the theory be that excess nitrate in surface water would reach the valley mire to the detriment of the special flora and fauna . this be highlight by Farmscoper , a free desktop tool that offer generic assessment , but with the disclaimer that its result should be check by on - site testing . that testing be not carry out prior to notification and , as far as I be aware , the check be yet to be carry out . likewise , bird survey be undertake for a year , not the three to five year specify by Natural England ' s own guidance , and invertebrate survey rely on a single year , rather than the three year that it should have be . Natural England could have easily engage constructively with farmer and landowner to establish a more robust scientific case for designate accurately any area that justify such a significant level of protection — it do not . even at the public hearing in June last year , the chair of Natural England , its legal team and senior official refuse to accept responsibility or ownership of these failure , and press ahead with notification . it be not accountable to the farmer , to member of the Government or to member of this House . why do this matter ? because now , follow confirmation of the SSSI , farmer be subject to the same Natural England staff dictate how they operate their farm . that include their demanding that farmer apply for consent to milk cow or keep livestock . there be the risk that farming business will become unsustainable , which will impact on the rural economy and food security , while no meaningful benefit to the environment be deliver . farmer be already sell their business . I will give just one example of a farm in my constituency . this farm have two field with a mixture of acid pasture , fern and heather , and grassland , which Natural England include in the SSSI with the rest of the farmland and which be already in Natural England ' s high level stewardship scheme . the farmer object to the inclusion of the two field , which be use for winter feeding of yearle Red Ruby Devon heifer . as far as Natural England be concern , there be no boundary between the rough land and the main grass pasture , and so all of it be in the SSSI and hence under restriction . the farm naturally decide not to squander money on a fence , but to reduce stocking level . what be shocking be not just that the farm be lose out from unjustifiable restriction — I shall talk about the economic benefit later — but that these restriction will do the reverse of what be intend . reduced grazing on the moorland will make way for invasive specie such as bramble and rhododendron to take over , and this will actually reduce biodiversity , unless the state be prepared to spend large sum of money on eradication . my Bill would allow the Environment Secretary to interrogate the science and scrutinise Natural England ' s decision . my experience from engage with the Department be that it fully understand the concern that I have raise , include on the viability of farm if good farming land be include without assess its risk to the rough land . it be Natural England that seem to have ride roughshod over farmer ' countryside management and their understanding of how to care for their natural environment . this be not the only part of England where serious tension exist between Natural England and organisation and individual who have devote their life to the careful stewardship of the countryside . my Bill would also give the Secretary of State the power to consider other factor in designation — factor that Natural England can not consider . last year , I speak in an Adjournment debate about the way in which Natural England do not consider — and could not consider — the social , cultural and economic implication of notification . as I have state , Natural England be not concerned with the viability of the farm , and it be not concerned with the rural property off the grid for which borehole be the only source of water . borehole in sssi can only be use with Natural England ' s consent . the Minister ' s predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) , agree with I , say : " it be high time that we look at how those protection impact the economy and the social and cultural side of farming , and we will be do just that . if we be to truly halt the decline of nature , we need our farmer to do all they can for environmental stewardship . " — [ Official Report , 18 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 1211 . ] it be indeed high time , and my Bill would give the Environment Secretary the power to do so . if our farmer be to do all they can for environmental stewardship , they need a Department that will support they . they need a Department that be responsible for sssi and the funding to support landscape recovery , and a Department that can strike harmony between the public good of conservation and food production , and the need to ensure that farm be viable and that the rural economy thrive . the notification of a SSSI impact on the environment , food and rural affair ; it should therefore be the responsibility of DEFRA to make that decision . question put and agree to . order , that Derek Thomas , Dr Th é r è se Coffey , Trudy Harrison , Philip Dunne , Sir Robert Goodwill , Steve Double , Selaine Saxby , Sir Bill Wiggin , Greg Smith , Simon Jupp , Maggie Throup and Mark Menzies present the Bill . Derek Thomas accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 April , and to be print ( Bill 180 ) . National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill ( Allocation of Time ) order , that the follow provision shall apply to the proceeding on the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) bill : timetable ( 1 ) ( a ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take at today ' s sit in accordance with this order . ( b ) proceeding on second read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( c ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . timing of proceeding and question to be put ( 2 ) when the Bill have be read a second time : ( a ) it shall , despite Standing Order No . 63 ( Committal of bill not subject to a programme order ) , stand committed to a Committee of the whole House without any question be put ; ( b ) proceeding on the Bill shall stand postpone while the question be put , in accordance with Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( money resolution and way and mean resolution in connection with bill ) , on any financial resolution relate to the Bill ; ( c ) on the conclusion of proceeding on any financial resolution relate to the Bill , proceeding on the Bill shall be resume and the Speaker shall leave the Chair whether or not notice of an instruction have be give . ( 3 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chair shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 4 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 1 ) , the Chair or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply : ( a ) any question already propose from the chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment , new Clause or new schedule select by the Chair or Speaker for separate decision ; ( d ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a Minister of the Crown ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other question , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 15 ) ( a ) of this order . ( 5 ) on a motion so make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chair or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . ( 6 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( d ) on successive amendment move or Motions make by a Minister of the Crown , the Chair or Speaker shall instead put a single question in relation to those amendment or motion . ( 7 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( e ) in relation to successive provision of the Bill , the Chair shall instead put a single question in relation to those provision , except that the question shall be put separately on any Clause of or schedule to the Bill which a Minister of the Crown have signify an intention to leave out . consideration of Lords Amendments ( 8 ) ( a ) any Lords Amendments to the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 9 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order no . 83F ( programme order : conclusion of proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 8 ) of this order . subsequent stage ( 10 ) ( a ) any further message from the Lords on the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 11 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 g ( Programme order : conclusion of proceeding on further message from the Lords ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 10 ) of this order . Reasons Committee ( 12 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( programme order : reason committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appoint to draw up reason after proceeding have be bring to a conclusion in accordance with this order . miscellaneous ( 13 ) Standing Order No . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on the Bill . ( 14 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding to which this order apply . ( 15 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 16 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding to which this order apply except by a Minister of the Crown . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 17 ) ( a ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the day shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding on that day to which this order apply . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply in respect of any such debate . ( 18 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 19 ) ( a ) any private business which have be set down for consideration at a time fall after the commencement of proceeding on this order or on the Bill on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the Day shall , instead of be consider as provide by Standing Orders or by any order of the House , be consider at the conclusion of the proceeding on the Bill on that day . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to the private business so far as necessary for the purpose of secure that the business may be consider for a period of three hour . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of the Scottish National party leader have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . for the second time this year , we be cut taxis for 29 million work people across the country — something that be particularly remarkable in the aftermath of the bad pandemic in 100 year , the bad war in mainland Europe since 1945 , and the high energy spike since the 1970 . the Government have have to take difficult decision to restore the public finance , and those decision be start to pay off . our economy be grow , and debt be forecast to reduce . inflation be down significantly , unemployment be at near - record low , and wage be rise . as the outlook improve , our priority be to return money to work taxpayer while keep the public finance on track . we believe that the tax system should be fair and simple , and should reward hard work , yet the way we tax people ' s income be particularly unfair . People who get their income from have a job pay two type of tax : national insurance contribution and income tax . People who get it from other source pay only one . the result be a complicated system that do not support work as good it could . for that reason , the Bill will build on the change to national insurance contribution in the autumn statement . the Bill contain two measure : a reduction in the NICs employee class 1 main rate , and a reduction in the NICs class 4 main rate . both measure be important . allow work family to keep as much of their hard - earn money as possible be a priority for the Government . the Chancellor have always be clear that when we can cut taxis , we will . my hon . friend be make a great speech , and I fully support the Government ' s effort to reduce the taxis of work people , alongside the pledge to increase the money go to pensioner through the triple lock . do he agree that it be disgraceful that , while the Conservatives be work hard to cut taxis and help work people , Labour be increase the share of council tax for all Londoners , and hit driver with charge of up to £ 12 . 50 per day thank to the ultra low emission zone ? my hon . friend be consistent in hold the administration in London to account . he be right : as we be still not out of the wood when it come to the cost of living crisis , the conservative party have make it clear that we disagree with the Mayor of London ' s approach of make motorist poor . as I say , build on the change in the autumn statement , we will once again be support work family by reduce the main rate of employee class 1 nic by two percentage point to 8 % on earning between £ 12 , 570 and £ 50 , 270 from 6 April 2024 . that will cut taxis for over 27 million employee . the average worker on £ 35 , 400 a year will save £ 450 a year , and the majority will see the benefit in their payslip at the start of the new tax year . take together with the cut to nic in the autumn statement , this tax cut be worth some £ 900 a year to the average worker . in addition , we be implement a further reduction in the main rate of class 4 nic for the self - employ . the Chancellor announce in the autumn statement that the main rate of class 4 will be reduce from 9 % to 8 % from 6 April . today , we be cut the rate by an additional two percentage point from 8 % to 6 % from April 2024 . that be a total cut of three percentage point in just six month . combine with the abolition of the requirement to pay class 2 , which be announce in the autumn statement , that will save an average self - employ person £ 650 a year , and benefit over 2 million people across the country . together with the autumn statement cut , this be an overall tax cut worth some £ 20 billion per year — the large - ever cut to employee and self - employ national insurance . because of the action that we have take , the average earner in the UK now have the low effective personal tax rate since 1975 . the Government be commit to tax cut that reward and incentivise work and that grow our economy sustainably and boost productivity . the Office for Budget Responsibility have say that the national insurance cut announce in the spring Budget will increase the total hour work by the equivalent of almost 100 , 000 full - time worker by 2028 - 29 . because of the cut , just over 30 , 000 people will move into work . these reduction in tax will drive more people to seek employment . this be our plan for a simple , fair tax system that make work pay . my hon . friend be make a powerful conservative speech about the importance of not just cut tax but get more people into work . have the Department estimate how much more tax revenue will come in as a result of more people work because of these change , so that we can show that low taxis actually increase tax revenue for the Exchequer ? my hon . friend be right to point that out . a fundamental benefit of reduce tax be that it improve growth in our economy , because more people will be in work and work long hour . that obviously generate more productivity for our economy , and ultimately more tax revenue for the Exchequer . it be a fundamental conservative principle that we want low taxis , and we be deliver that today because it be fiscally responsible to do so , and we be able to do so . I be grateful to my hon . friend for make such a powerful case for cut taxis , a fundamental conservative principle . the Bill will put £ 960 back into the pocket of the average worker in Southend , who earn £ 36 , 400 , and will put £ 1 , 920 back into the pocket of a family in Southend with two people on the average wage . do he agree that that be a considerable and welcome tax cut for hard - work people in Southend ? my hon . friend be right to point that out . I would add to those figure : since 2010 , we have lift million of people across the country , include in Southend West , out of pay any tax at all by double the point at which people start pay tax in our country . People can now earn £ 1 , 000 a month without pay any tax , and that be a great achievement of a Conservative Government . although I welcome the fact that Labour Members will apparently vote for our tax cut today , I hope that they will forgive I for sound slightly sceptical about their sudden conversion to the cause of low taxis for work people . while they do not oppose the measure , they also do not propose they . in fact , Labour have consistently vote against successive Conservative - lead tax cut between 2010 and 2021 , which deliver a doubling of the personal allowance , as I mention to my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) . on the one hand , they bemoan the level of taxation , but can not tell we a single tax that they propose to cut , or what the level of taxation would be under Labour . on the other hand , the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , describe our ambition to remove unfairness in the tax system as " morally abhorrent " . Labour Members still can not tell we how they will pay for their many spending commitment . they be completely all over the place . it be only the conservative who truly believe in reduce taxis on work people . the Minister be give a clear explanation of why the Conservatives want to cut tax , and the economic benefit of cut taxis for work people . he will know that the origin of national insurance be basically a form of social insurance : have pay national insurance , it would look after we later in life . the Labour party take the insurance out and put the socialism in , which be why we have end up with a system that be essentially the same as income tax . as we think beyond today ' s welcome cut to what be in the Opposition new clause , have the Minister think about use any further cut to go into the compulsory saving of individual introduce under the coalition Government after 2010 — essentially build , in place of a dependency state , a saving state build on conservative principle ? yet again my hon . friend make a valuable contribution . I commit to take his idea away to consider , as we look at reduce the unfairness in the tax system in future and reduce national insurance contribution when it be prudent and responsible to do so . the Labour party be completely all over the place on this . as a Conservative Government , we have deliver a clear message to the british people , and it be base on the delivery of the low personal taxation level since 1975 . we have almost double the personal allowance , bring the low earner out of pay any tax at all , and we have deliver a thriving job market , which be ultimately the good way to ensure that people be bring out of poverty . I hope to speak a bit later on this . I may have a slight difference of opinion with the Minister on tax cutting , but I want to deal with the fact as I see they . he be make a great amount of noise about the tax - cut vim and vigour that his party have have over the past 10 , 20 or 30 year , or even long than that — it be mean to be something that go to the heart of the conservative party — but accord to the OECD , for every £ 1 generate in the UK , the Government collect 35 . 3p of it as tax . that figure be project to keep on increase to 37 . 7p by 2029 , despite this 2 % tax cut . can the Minister explain how , if the Conservatives be the party of tax cut , actual tax level will in fact be go up , accord to the OECD ? how do the Government square that circle ? I be grateful for the opportunity to clarify that , because there have be a lot of noise from the Labour Benches , too . it be true that we have have to make some difficult decision about overall taxation on the back of the pandemic , but today we be cut taxis on work , because that be the way to grow our economy . as I say , we now have the low personal taxation level since 1975 . some taxis have go up , absolutely — support by the Labour party — as we have increase tobacco duty and other item , for example , but we be focus on ensure that if people be in work and have a job , their tax level will be reduce . today , that work of reduce tax on work continue . we be cut taxis for million of people across this country . that be why I commend the Bill to the House . let I start by say that the official opposition will support the national insurance reduction before we . we have long say that the tax burden on work people be too high and should come down in a responsible way . in fact , when the now Prime Minster be push through a national insurance increase two year ago , we oppose it . labour have consistently say that we want taxis on work people to be low . just as we support the reduction in national insurance in January , we support the further measure announce in the Budget last week that be before we today . the truth be , however , that neither the national insurance cut nor anything else in the Budget change the fact that people across Britain be bad off under the Conservatives . the Government be give with one hand , but be take far more with the other . figure from the Office for Budget Responsibility show that for every £ 5 that work people will get back from the Government ' s national insurance cut , they will be lose a total of £ 10 thank to the Conservatives ' tax plan . that tax plan will leave the average household £ 870 bad off and will drag 3 . 7 million more people into pay tax by 2028 - 29 . last week ' s Budget confirm that , even after the change we be consider today , the tax burden will continue to rise in each and every year of the forecast period , with the UK still set to have its high tax burden in 70 year . that be the reality of Britain under the Conservatives , and that be why people across the country be say it be time for change . the national insurance reduction in the Bill be mention by the Chancellor toward the end of his Budget statement last Wednesday . the cut have of course already be confirm in the medium by Government source in the day before , so they come as no surprise . many of we in the Chamber be wonder whether the Chancellor would follow the time - honour tradition of end his Budget by pull an unexpected , and as yet unannounced , rabbit out of the hat . it turn out he do have a rabbit , but even after all the chaos of the Conservatives over the past few year , many of we could not quite believe what we be hear : the Chancellor ' s big pitch to the british people in the last Budget before the general election be a £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan . as people across Britain continue to suffer the impact of the disastrous mini - Budget of 2022 , the Conservative Chancellor announce that he would go into the general election with a plan to abolish national insurance , leave a £ 46 billion hole in the public finance , put family finance across the country at risk , and create huge uncertainty for pensioner . it be frankly the height of irresponsibility for the Chancellor to use the opportunity of last week ' s Budget — an opportunity that should have be use to set out a long - term plan to grow the economy — to follow in the footstep of his reckless predecessor with a £ 46 billion unfunded tax cut . in fact , though , perhaps my comment be unfair to the Chancellor ' s predecessor , because even he now seem to be critical of the current Chancellor ' s approach . yesterday , the right hon . member for Spelthorne ( Kwasi Kwarteng ) tell the BBC ' s " politic live " that he think the Chancellor should indeed spell out how he will pay for the abolition of national insurance . it be quite something when the Chancellor who crash the economy after his disastrous mini - Budget publicly call on the current Government to be more responsible . the truth be that promise of unfunded tax cut have nothing to do with grow the economy , and everything to do with prop up a weak Prime Minister who be desperately try to survive in a divide conservative party . this reckless behaviour show that the Conservatives be blindly put party first and country second . for the good of the economy and of the million of hard - work people who be still pay the price for the disastrous mini - budget , I urge Treasury Ministers when they respond finally to come clean about how they will pay for their £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan . over the past week , we have see Ministers struggle with that question . the day after the Budget , the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions imply that he do not feel the need to explain how the commitment would be fund as it be only " an aspiration " . on Sky News that day , the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury seem to think that the Conservatives do not need to explain how they will fund their promise as it may " take several Parliaments " . the position of the Prime Minister and Chancellor be clear , however . in an email to his party member on Budget day , the Chancellor confirm that abolish national insurance would be a priority for the next Parliament , if the Conservatives win . the next day , he suggest that that could be achieve by merge national insurance into income tax , a move that raise the prospect of a huge tax hike for pensioner . on the Saturday after the Budget , the Prime Minister confirm again that abolish national insurance would be a priority for the Conservatives in the next Parliament , if they be still in Government . let we be clear : this be a £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan . it be a plan that come from the top of the conservative party about what they would do in the next Parliament . it come straight out of the same playbook as the Conservatives ' disastrous mini - Budget that crash the economy . this unfunded plan be yet more chaos and recklessness from the Conservatives . only Labour will bring stability and security back to the british economy . if Treasury Ministers disagree that their party be the reckless party , they can clear this up today by explain how they will pay for their £ 46 billion tax cut . will it be fund by high income tax ? will it be fund by cut to public service ? will they push up borrowing ? the Conservatives ' unfunded tax plan blow a £ 46 billion hole in funding earmark for the state pension and the NHS . they need to come clean today about what that mean for people ' s tax bill , pension and public service . to be fair , the Chancellor have at least hint how he think that the Conservatives could pay for the abolition of national insurance : his proposal to merge national insurance with income tax . of course , take that route and replace the revenue from employee and self - employ national insurance contribution with great basic and high rate of income tax would mean rate of income tax go up by 6 . 5 % . that would hit all income tax payer and cause particular alarm for pensioner . under the Chancellor ' s plan merger , pensioner — who do not currently pay national insurance — could see an average tax hike of about £ 800 each . a retired pensioner with an income of £ 25 , 000 from a mix of private and state pension pay an extra 6 . 5 % on their income above the personal allowance would see their income tax bill rise by more than £ 800 . furthermore , national insurance contribution be what determine people ' s entitlement to the basic state pension . the Conservatives ' plan to abolish national insurance in the next Parliament would sever the link between contribution and pension entitlement . will the Minister explain , under their plan to abolish national insurance , how people will know what their future entitlement to the state pension will be ? what would be the basis for state pension entitlement without employee national insurance contribution ? do their plan mean the end of the state pension as we know it ? I hope that the Minister will take this opportunity to give clear answer to all those question , or else confirm that the Conservatives have drop their unfunded plan to abolish national insurance altogether . I have a lot of respect for the hon . gentleman . he come from a professional background , and , compare with most people on the Labour Benches , normally know what he be talk about . however , I want to follow his logic when it come to what he claim be a reckless potential abolition of national insurance . if abolish all national insurance be reckless and will lead to the country go to hell in a handcart , as he so want to portray it , why be labour not oppose a reduction in national insurance ? surely , if he do not oppose a reduction in national insurance , his argument completely fall down , because that mean that national insurance can be get rid of . I thank the hon . member for his intervention — I think . he miss the point . the commitment by the Chancellor , the Prime Minister and , I think , the Treasury Ministers , although they seem to oscillate a little in their position , be to get rid of national insurance entirely — to abolish it at a cost of £ 46 billion — but they be refuse to say how that would be fund . we see what happen in autumn 2022 when unfunded tax cut be propose by the Conservative Government : it crash the economy and push up people ' s mortgage and rent . that be the risk of the Conservatives to the british people , that be the risk to the economy , and that be why we need a general election . if the Conservatives want to move on from this discussion , they should give assurance on the matter when they respond to the debate . if they do not give those assurance and be not able to distance themselves and rule out their plan to abolish national insurance , we will know that they have essentially give up on governing , be incapable of act responsibly , and be put their party before the country with their reckless plan . as I say at the start of my speech , we will support the Bill because , after 14 year of the Conservatives and 25 tax rise in this Parliament alone , the tax burden on work people be too high . labour want the tax burden on work people to come down in an economically and fiscally responsible way . however , let we be clear about the context of this Bill and the change it make to national insurance . even with the Bill ' s national insurance cut in place , household across Britain be set to be an average of £ 870 bad off as a result of the Conservatives ' tax plan , and the tax burden in the UK be still set to rise to its high in 70 year . to make people well off and support public service , we need a plan to get the economy grow . we need last week a Budget with a long - term plan to bring about growth and help to rebuild our public service . that be what the country need , and that be what Labour be offer with our plan to grow the economy through stability , investment and reform . that be not what we see last week , however . accord to the British Retail Consortium , the Chancellor do " little to promote growth and investment " . the British Chambers of Commerce say this morning : " the UK still lack a clear industrial strategy to unlock long - term growth . " face with a record tax burden , fail public service and no plan for growth , we see the Conservatives grasp desperately for positive headline by announce a reckless , irresponsible and unfunded £ 46 billion tax plan . I wonder whether the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , approve of this plan . maybe she feel outdone , with this unfunded tax plan come in at £ 1 billion more than her . either way , the conclusion be clear : chaos and recklessness be the currency of the Conservatives . only Labour will bring stability , security and responsibility back to the economy , and only a general election will give the british people the chance to vote for change . there be quite a lot to say after the contribution from both Front Benchers , which I will come to in a minute . I welcome the opportunity to speak in this important debate . I support the reduction in the rate of national insurance . I will use my time to discuss long - term tax reform that should be introduce . before I speak to the cut and change to national insurance that be the basis of this important Bill , I will , if I may , make some observation on the debate thus far have hear both Front Benchers . this be a very serious issue ; we be speak about fiscal matter that affect all our constituent across the United Kingdom , at a time when we should be really honest with the british people . we should level with they : taxis have go up . I do not think that they want to hear trivial argument from this House about who be outscore whom . a degree of maturity be need right now , because these have be difficult time , post - pandemic and off the back of Russia - Ukraine and everything that have follow . we need to look at what be be propose in a constructive way . the irony of today ' s debate — I will touch on wide public spending — be that tomorrow we will be here talk about estimate . give the book and the number that I have go through this morning , a lot more can be do to ensure that government spending be much more efficient , but we will save discussion that for tomorrow . this be an important Bill . it follow clearly the decision that previous Conservative Chancellors have take to reduce the taxis take from national insurance . member who review the detail of successive Budgets since May 2010 will note that the Government have progressively reduce the national insurance tax burden in recent year — member may recall that the employee threshold level be £ 5 , 725 back in 2010 , so that have be the trend . two year ago , the increase in the primary threshold jump from £ 9 , 568 to align with the tax - free threshold — with which I like to think we in this House be all familiar — of £ 12 , 570 in 2022 - 23 . that 2022 change alone have already put around £ 330 per person back into the pocket of hard - work family . the change at the autumn statement — which , if I remember rightly , be well debate on the conservative side of the House , while the opposition be a little absent — mean that average earner would be around £ 900 well off . alongside that , I also welcome the reduction in nic for those who be self - employ . as an Essex MP , the majority of my constituent be self - employ . over 80 % of my constituent work in self - employ small and medium - sized firm . those who be self - employ and pay class 4 contribution , include many of my constituent , make a huge contribution to our economy . we should reflect on that . more always need to be do — that be fact — to grow the economy , on supply - side reform , and to stimulate employment , but the measure be huge for those people because it give they security in employment , and that be a fundamental principle that we should all work to . it be a big difference and tax cut . the impact of raise the income tax - free threshold from the £ 6 , 475 in 2010 to £ 12 , 570 today be significant because it be worth over £ 1 , 000 , or 20 % of the £ 6 , 095 increase . the £ 900 average from the cut to national insurance in the last two fiscal event be significant . we should all recognise what that mean not just for the economy but for the money in people ' s pocket . those measure will have help taxpayer to keep around £ 2 , 400 more of the money they earn . let I be frank : that be not just good ; it be value and welcome . as colleague have already touch on , those be timeless conservative value that fulfil our mission to deliver economic freedom and low taxis , notwithstanding the tax backdrop of recent year . I listen to the Labour Front Bencher , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , and I always welcome his contribution and enjoy our debate . our approach to national insurance and ease the burden contrast with what we see under the previous Labour Governments , when we see increase . we need to work collectively to be on the side of hard - press family right now . that be absolutely crucial . I could go back to the Budgets of Gordon Brown and list some of the calamity that take place , but what be the point ? we have to speak about the fiscal — [ interruption . ] no , we have to speak about the fiscal footprint that we have now , about the Budget resolution that we vote on last night , and about this Bill in particular . it be really important that we stand by our record , our commitment to lower taxis on income , and our ambition to go far . this will be a debate — I have no doubt about that . I have stand in this Chamber before say that we should go far on tax reform , and I believe that . I have even suggest previously that we look at merge NI and income tax , and previous conservative government have look at that as well . as all member know , include Opposition Front Benchers , it be not straightforward ; it be complicated , and some of the point that have be raise today indicate why . however , I believe that we have to continue on this pathway . without recap the Budget debate that we have have in recent day , it contain important fiscal measure that mean that the public will be well off , include the fuel freeze , but the direction of travel be also important . Treasury Front Benchers hear a lot from I and other member about this issue , and I know they would like to go far in reduce the tax burden . they know my personal view on public spending , which I believe be far too high right now and need address , but we also need to think about long - term reform . if I may , I will touch on the ambition express by the Chancellor to end the double taxation on job , and the suggestion that national insurance be either phase out or subject to reform . I have be a long - stand campaigner for low and simplified taxis , and I be on the record as have even look in the past at a merger . George Osborne look at that during his chancellorship , as do the Office of Tax Simplification — that be well document and on the record . although those plan be not take forward because of the complexity I have touch on , it be important that those debate continue , because we need to simplify our tax system in this country . as conservative , we must always look to do that ; we must always stand up for not just low taxis , but simplify the tax system . I say that as the new tax year be due to begin , with people still get letter from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . for business in particular , the burden that they face and the complexity involve in tax return be mind - blow . both national insurance and income tax be taxis on income , and the threshold at which they be both pay be now align at £ 12 , 500 per year . that be something that we need to look at — I have make that point before . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) touch on the contributory principle of national insurance as set out in the National Insurance Act 1911 and further measure follow the second world war . those measure be bring in to support health and medical benefit and unemployment benefit , and the receipt raise be pay into the national insurance fund investment account . that distinction in the way that national insurance be raise and deal with , compare with other taxis — which end up in the consolidated fund — have stand the test of time . I think all Treasury Ministers , those on the Front Bench today and other , recognise that . that distinction be ingrain in the fabric of our tax system and the thought of many of our constituent . we be now start the debate about low taxis and how we can simplify the tax system , and I genuinely believe that this be an important Bill . it be a very important signal in term of support the self - employ and hard - press family around the country , and the Government ' s direction of travel be very welcome . through this debate , we be start to provide a clear , distinct conservative way forward and conservative approach . we have have debate over the past week about high - tax , high - spend policy ; those debate and discussion be not go to go away . public spending be over £ 1 . 2 trillion . we have to be mature in the debate we have in this House , and about how as a government we prioritise public investment but spend taxpayer ' money wisely . I be pleased that this Bill have be bring forward , and I hope it will start a positive direction of travel when it come to reduce the overall tax burden on hard - press family . I call the SNP spokesman . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give a second reading to the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) bill because , while acknowledge that the measure in the Bill reduce the National Insurance Contributions ( NIC ) burden on some employee , it consider the Government should prioritise investment in public service spend over yet more cut in spending which would be the result of lower tax revenue by reduce NIC rate . " the amendment stand in the name of my group leader , my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) ; my colleague on the Front Bench , my hon . friend the Member for Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey ( Drew Hendry ) ; and myself and other SNP Members . the Bill be the wrong measure at the wrong time . we be quite comfortable have clear water between we and the Conservatives . when it come to tax , they have a different ethos and ideology from our . what be distress , though , be the fact that the Labour party seem wed to some of the fiscal rule and public sector cut that the Tories have introduce . in fact , it be difficult to see a significant difference between the two party at this point , whereas SNP Members be make a clear statement that we do not agree with this measure . we do not think it be the right time to introduce it , and we think the focus should be on public service . the national insurance cut will have a disproportionately positive impact on high earner and a disproportionately negative impact on low earner . low earner , high earner , middle earner and non - earner be all able to benefit from access to universal public service . they be able to benefit from access an NHS that be free at the point of use — in Scotland , that is , not in England , where people have to pay prescription charge . they be able to benefit from their child be able to go to school and get educate , from college , from mental health service , and from pothole be fill and bin be empty . everybody can benefit from all of those thing ; those public service be universal . cut in public service and continued austerity mean that the low earner and those who be not earn lose out the most , because those public service mean more to they than they do to people who be earn £ 120 , 000 a year . there have already be 300 , 000 excess death in the UK from austerity — this can not continue . to give an illustration , the national insurance cut mean that a band 2 NHS staff member will pay £ 343 less in national insurance next year than they do this year . for an MP , the national insurance cut be worth £ 1 , 320 , nearly four time what that NHS staff member will get . for someone earn £ 11 . 44 an hour and work 20 hour a week , the national insurance cut mean nothing — they do not benefit from that cut at all . it be almost the least progressive measure that the Government could have take at this point . it also do not impact pensioner : they do not pay national insurance , so none of they will gain from this cut . in Scotland , we be do what we can to protect people ' s income through a council tax freeze , whereas the UK Government be allow a council tax hike . someone who live in Lancashire will pay £ 79 extra on their council tax next year ; someone who live in North Tyneside will pay £ 92 . 37 extra . that be not to mention the water rate , which be significantly different in England from what they be in Scotland . it be not just we in the SNP who be say this . I want to contribute several quote from various organisation about the Chancellor ' s budget , the ruin in public service that will result from it , and its disproportionate impact . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation say : " last year nearly 4 million people in the UK experience destitution , include 1 million child . the number of people experience destitution have more than double in the last 5 year . a 2p cut in National Insurance will not help those who need it the most " . Miatta Fahnbulleh , former chief executive of the New Economics Foundation , say : " key take away from # Budget24 . household income win ' t recover to pre - pandemic level until 2025 . an entire Parliament where income will not have grow . that ' s @ RishiSunak ' s record right there . " Harry Quilter - Pinner , director of research and engagement at the Institute for Public Policy Research , say that this be a " ' slash and crash ' budget that prioritise tax cut now at the expense of crash public service and investment in the future . this isn ' t economically desirable , fiscally credible nor politically popular . " Rachael Henry , head of advocacy and policy at Tax Justice UK , say : " we have the sugar rush of tax cut now that will be pay for by deep public spending cut to come . " Andrew Harrop , general secretary of the Fabian Society , say : " high earning household will be up to £ 1 , 500 a year well off after two round of National Insurance cut and the wealthy will see sizeable tax cut on profit from property sale and ISA investment . meanwhile low earner gain little or nothing from the tax change , and many of the poor will actually see their income drop with the scrapping of cost of living payment . " Chris Thomas from the IPPR say : " as of Autumn statement 2022 , the government expect NHS revenue spending to be £ 180 . 4bn in 2024 - 5 and capital to be £ 12 . 6bn . for all the talk of NHS investment by cx just now , the Spring Budget 2024 expect equivalent figure to be £ 179 . 6 and £ 12 . 6bn " . that be less — less money for the NHS than be announce in the autumn statement . Victoria Benson , the chief executive of Gingerbread , say that " we urgently need to see an uplift to Universal Credit to protect those on low income who have be struggle for too long " . Alison Garnham , the chief executive of the Child Poverty Action Group , say : " this be a Budget all but blind to buckle family budget and break public service and will leave a legacy of crumble classroom , cold home , and empty tummy . " lastly , and most damningly , the Samaritans say : " the Government have choose to waste another opportunity to save life today . " in Scotland , we prioritise public service . in the SNP , we prioritise public service . per 1 , 000 people in Scotland , we have 8 . 4 nurse or midwife , while England have only 6 . 3 nurse or midwife . our nurse be also pay more than they would earn in England in an equivalent band , and those earn under £ 28 , 000 a year be tax less than they would be if they live in England . in NHS Scotland , we have 28 . 9 wholetime equivalent staff per 1 , 000 of the population , but NHS England have only 22 . 9 staff . we have put in place the baby box , which be a universal gift to new parent to provide extra support for their child . we have the scottish child payment , which have keep 100 , 000 kid out of poverty . we have free bus for under - 22 , eligible disabled people and the over - 60 , and we have P1 - 5 free school meal . what happen to those who be just about manage ? this government have do amazing thing for they : they have manage to massively increase the number of people who be just about manage ; and they have manage to tip so many people from just about manage into absolutely not manage and live in desperation . People want their bin to be collect , their pothole to be fill , their child to be educate and their NHS to be available when they need it . they want all these service to be available to they . the cut that the Tories be make to public service will damage even far the society we be live in . People will lose the very little support measure that they have leave , and I absolutely condemn this decision and this Bill . I have declare my business interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I welcome the reduction in the tax on job . the level of overall taxation in our country be too high . the reason it be so high be primarily the huge expenditure the country , by general agreement , incur to tackle the covid lockdown . this be why I find the Opposition ' s criticism of this Government ' s tax record so difficult to grasp . after all , they want we to lock down tougher and they want we to lock down for long . while a lot of money be rightly offer by this Government to individual and company to replace their lose income — colossal expenditure on a scale we have never see before — Labour want to spend more on those cause , as well as want the lockdown to go on for so much long . what we demonstrate be that if we lock down a country for a year or more , stop a very large number of people earn their living or livelihood at all , and close down a large number of company for the duration and maybe for long , it be an extremely costly process . of course , we need to offset that to prevent a complete collapse in the economy and to sustain some lifestyle for those who otherwise would have no income . so we as a nation have this burden of extra expenditure , which we be now have to tackle by tax level that be high than we like . we be at this very important point where the high taxis be all in place — some of they be do their job , and some of they will disappoint because high tax rate do not always deliver the extra revenue that Treasury and OBR planner seem to think they will — and the Government be rightly say , from the autumn statement through this Budget and on to future fiscal event , as they be now call , that we want to get back to get the level of taxation and the burden of the rate down . it do not mean that we want to reduce the amount of taxation — indeed , the Government , understandably , want to collect a lot more taxation , as do the opposition — but the fundamental policy debate be about how good to do that , and it be surely right that we be go to have a more prosperous economy and more public expenditure can be afford if we have tax level that promote growth , particularly if we reduce the taxation that be otherwise a big burden on work , on enterprise and innovation , and on small company and the self - employ . I be delighted that the self - employ have be include in the national insurance cut in both the autumn statement and this Budget , but I still think the Government need to reform or push back the change they make to IR35 . we have lose 800 , 000 self - employ over the covid period . some of that be because of the damage the covid lockdown have do , but some of it be deliberate tax policy in tell people that they can not be self - employ , or so undermine the credibility of their status as self - employ in the eye of other that they do not get the contract they use to get from business that be nervous about the tax issue . I urge my hon . friend on the Front Bench to find time to look again at the second part of the self - employment package . I welcome the national insurance part , but I think we need to look at IR35 , because we need that extra capacity . it would be good to get back some or all of those 800 , 000 , and to add many new one — young one — to that crucial army , because I be sure all member in the House , be honest , would agree that the self - employ make such a valuable contribution in our constituency . do my right hon . friend share my view that over the decade we have see such a fall or drop - off in individual start their own business , young people in particular , because of these concern about the tax burden , how regulated it be and how difficult it be ? by deal with the whole long - stand issue of IR35 , we could open up a new marketplace and encourage a new generation of entrepreneur and small business leader to come in and really help to grow the economy . I largely agree with my right hon . friend , but if we look at the number , I think the fall - off be from 2020 to 2024 . prior to that , with good conservative policy and low taxis , we be grow the self - employ army very noticeably , and it be make a very important contribution to general growth and the way all our local community be service . it be so often self - employ people who allow we to make personal contact in a way that large company do not seem to want any more . they be the people who turn up in the evening or at the weekend , if necessary , to get work do , and they be the people who wrestle with the increasingly impossible street create by Labour and liberal Democrat council , which make it more difficult for they to get their van around . do the right hon . Member not understand that perhaps the other reason for the decline in the self - employ and small and medium - sized enterprise be the growth of large business or large corporation that push they out of the marketplace and that monopolise and dominate ? that be a big part of it , and it be a massive part of how our economy have develop over the last 30 or 40 year . no , I do not think that be the main point . I think the two main point be the one I have make — the covid lockdown and the tax regime affect the ability to set oneself up . I will meet the hon . member a little of the way , because I do think that the 2021 reform in particular put company off deal with the self - employ , and the self - employ often need business from other company , as well as directly from the public , and that have be a problem . if he and his party be seriously interested , they should look at the 2017 and 2021 reform , which I think they support , to understand how they have backfire . that be a good example of the OBR and the Treasury thinking that they can get more money out of the self - employ by force more of they to be employ but end up with a far less successful economy with far few people work . it be an absolute pleasure to listen to my right hon . friend . I want to reinforce his point about IR35 so that our colleague on the Government Front Bench be clear about how important this be . he talk about how Labour in the past support those measure , but do he share my concern that perhaps Labour have now recognise that those change to IR35 have backfire and that it would be disastrous for the conservative party to go into the next election not have make those change while the Labour party be offer to do so ? I will not join my hon . friend in suggest that it could be disastrous to go into the election — I hope that , when we get to the election , it will be look rather well . but I do agree that it would be great to have sort out the IR35 taxation mess before we get to the election — after all , there could still be many month of happy Conservative Government ahead if that be the Government ' s wish — as that would be a much well outcome . fail that , it would be good to put it in the manifesto , but the self - employ would be quite right to say to the Conservatives , " if you have now get to the point of put it in the manifesto because you think it need change , why didn ' t you just fix it ? " my right hon . friend be make a brilliant speech . he be talk about the self - employ , and in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea more than 98 % of my business be small or medium - sized — in fact , the vast majority be micro . do he , like I , welcome the raising of the vat threshold in the Budget ? do he think that over time it would be welcome to continue move that threshold , which be such a brake on the growth of small business ? it be a brilliant thing that we have do , but could we take that far ? my first request of Chancellors in recent Budgets have be that there should be a sizeable increase in the vat threshold . I open the bidding at take it up to £ 250 , 000 , because I think we should want get on with these thing , and we should want to allow the self - employ to take on their first one or two employee and get their business to a certain scale before this colossal bureaucratic burden come down upon they . I have not yet persuade my hon . friend in the Treasury . I be pleased that chancellor have move from say , " no , we don ' t want to do that at all , " to say , " it can now be do . " but if the Government be to do it , they should get on with it , mean it , and look as if it be go to make a real impact . five thousand pound be not much . lot of people get their business to around £ 75 , 000 to £ 80 , 000 — I have meet they in my constituency , as I be sure have most member in theirs — and then they say , " I ' ll have a month off , " or , " I ' ll close the B & B for more of the off - season period , " or , " I win ' t take on any more contract , because I really don ' t want all that hassle . " they will say , " I ' m just a self - employ plumber " — or caterer or whatever — " and I ' m good at what I do . I don ' t want to become a vat expert and I don ' t want to have to spend a fortune on consultant to take I through this rigmarole of try to keep the book straight on vat . " I think we would benefit greatly from allow that flexibility . the Bill help , because it do reduce self - employ national insurance cost , but , as my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) say , it would be much great if we deal with the vat threshold at the same time . I would like to extend the conversation , which the opposition clearly want to have and the Government need to respond to , about affordable and unaffordable tax cut . first , I note that the opposition dub all tax cut — apart from the odd one they vote for — as unaffordable , whereas any amount of public spending be affordable . that be a strange asymmetry . the truth be that the Budget deficit be a combination of increase spending and reduced taxation , and one need to look at both side , which should be treat similarly . the other thing that the opposition must understand , from listen carefully to Ministers , be that get rid of all national insurance employee contribution be just an idea ; it be not a pledge and it be not a policy . it be clearly not bake into the next five year of figure . we have the Government ' s five - year financial plan in the Budget , which set out in general term what the level of tax revenue and overall spending will be — we await more detail for future year on spending from the public spending review in due course — and we know what the current feeling be on taxation , because we be just vote that through at the moment , base on the Budget . we know that future Budgets will make change to taxis . I be sure that conservative Budgets will make reduction in taxis — assume continuity of Conservative Government — but the Government be not promise to take off all this national insurance in one go , or indeed to make any particular change to national insurance next year or the year after . that be the right position to be in . however , give that there be plenty of time to think this through — it be not urgent policy — I urge my hon . friend in the Treasury to set out more of the consideration than the argument before come up with a firm pledge or a timetable for implement a tax cut that they want . we do need to begin with the contributory principle , which be still the main feature of the national insurance fund as we have it today , relate almost entirely to the state retirement pension . the old contributory benefit for unemployment and sickness have be largely remove from the national insurance fund — there be only residual , small amount leave — and now come out of general taxation and be vote on in the normal way . the contributory fund be primarily for the pension , which be reflect in the fact that everyone in receipt of a state retirement pension — or in expectation of one when they get to the relevant age — will have their pension base on their contribution record . it be also true that Parliament over the year have amend how one qualify for those contribution record — in some circumstance one can be at home and qualify for deem contribution , which be all good and fair — but it be still very much a contribution - base system . if we suddenly go away from such a system , we would need to answer the question : how do we settle eligibility for state pension ? many of my constituent would not think it a good idea if we invite in migrant worker in their 60 to do two or three year ' work here , have settle here quite legally , and then say , " you can have a full state pension . " they would feel that be not quite what people have in mind , because all previous generation have have to be here and work for many year to gain that entitlement . so there would be issue of fairness . if the Government ' s proposition be only that they would quite like to get rid of all employee contribution , I suppose we could keep the contributory principle by proxy , because people would have an employer contribution record , which I guess modern computer could divulge in a form that make a proxy for the eligibility of that person for a pension . however , it would still leave a hole in the national insurance account , because with just employer revenue we would have less national insurance revenue come in than pension go out , so there would need to be technical adjustment or the abolition of the fund and some other reassurance mechanism that people would get their entitlement for the state pension , however those new entitlement be calculate . this be a complicated area . I have be around this policy area on several occasion in the past for various leader , Chancellors and shadow Chancellors , and I have always conclude that it would not be a good idea to try to merge the whole of the national insurance taxation system with the whole of the income tax system . I still think there be some merit in keep the contributory principle . it now mainly relate to the pension , which be probably what one settle for , give how much other benefit have go up and how one could not put all that extra burden on additional national insurance contribution . I therefore urge the Government to ask themselves question about the timetable , affordability , wisdom and , above all , what they wish to do with the national insurance system as a whole , the contributory principle — which still mean a lot , particularly to old user of the system — and what a more modern system might look like . that be Green Paper and policy discussion territory , and it be invite as part of this debate because the opposition have table amendment to try to tease some of these matter out . we can not settle this today , however ; we need a lot of documentation and research to update some of the number and complexity , which I remember pore over in the past , so we can see how this might work . so , it be good news that we be get a tax cut , and good news that we can have some more tax cut to come , but I ask the Government please not only to think about cut national insurance , on which they have do a big and a good job , but to think about some of the other taxis , such as the vat threshold and IR35 , and such as taxis on energy where we be still completely uncompetitive in this country because energy taxation be so high , relative to China and the United States of America , let alone relative to our european competitor — they tend to have high energy price but we be still uncompetitive against they . so we need to look at all of that , and when we be look at future Budgets we need to work away at find more headroom . I be very pleased that this national insurance cut be effectively allow under Office for Budget Responsibility rule because the Government have seize the initiative on the productivity decline , which have be very sizeable over the covid period in the public service , and the Government be put back around £ 20 billion of lose productivity in future year . that be a modest target give the scale of the decline , and it be another reason why the public finance have be throw into disarray by covid : we do not merely have all the extra cost during the covid period , but we now have ongoing considerable extra cost to run our public service because we can not even get they back up to the level of productivity they have hit in 2019 before the covid crisis . we need to look at other way of find headroom . Productivity be a good mine for find headroom so we can improve the quality and cut the cost of what we deliver in the public sector . I still think the Bank of England should be stop from sell its colossal bond portfolio at huge loss and send the bill to the taxpayer . that be unsupportable and the fact that taxpayer and the Treasury have have to find £ 34 billion year to date to cover the whole range of Bank of England loss , which include capital loss on the bond , be a sign of how out of control this be . we need to stop that kind of thing . it would also be very helpful in get we out of this technical recession , because the monetary policy have shift from be massively too expansionary and inflationary , as it be during the covid period , when some of we warn about the way the Bank carry on for too long with print money and buy bond . I be very happy with the first tranche because it be essential to offset , but the last tranche be over the top . the Bank have now lurch to be too tough and have therefore create a technical recession that we need not have have , and if it stop quantitative tighten bond sale , that would start to ease the market up a bit more and allow we to grow a bit more rapidly and therefore generate more tax revenue . so I hope there be some food for thought here for the government when they look at their progress so far . the national insurance cut be good , but they should study the overall reform rather more carefully and think it through and not make it the only kind of tax cut in the future . there be other tax cut now that be more urgent and that would grow the economy more quickly , and they would be target rather more on enable more people to work for themselves and more small business to grow , and on we have more capacity , particularly in high energy use area . it be always good to speak after the right hon . member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) , because he genuinely make the idea of deepen economic inequality sound so plausible and convincing . if I could do the same from these Benches for the idea of deepen economic equality , I would feel that I have achieve something . he do it so well . when listen to our opponent on the Benches opposite , such as the right hon . Gentleman and the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , it be as interesting to think about what they do not say as what they do say , and one thing they always seem reluctant to talk about be tax wealth . I imagine that I will be a lone voice in this debate , but I intend to make the point none the less that there be a route by which we can have public service that actually work and a fair economic system , and it require an increase in the burden on those with the most , not those with the least . the Bill be not just another arbitrary , reckless and misguided act by this government ; rather , it come from a long and distinguished line of such Bills stretch back to the 1970 , although their pedigree be far old . this Bill be integral to an economic creed that we have hear much about today , which preach low tax and small privatised public service , and a belief that inequality be good because it drive competition — competition for job and for resource . the creed say that we need not worry about the loser , because we will have something call " trickle - down " , whereby the rich of the few flow down for the many to enjoy . the only problem be that 60 year later , we be still wait at the bottom and it have not come down to we yet . perhaps the Minister can tell we — the million wait for that trickle - down who be now routinely use food bank and worry about how they will pay the next bill — when that trickle - down will arrive . this Bill be the culmination of 60 year of tax cut , outsourcing , privatisation , impoverishment , profiteering , corruption and greed ; 60 year that have leave this country more divided than ever , susceptible to climate threat and deeply unequal in everything from income to life expectancy . what we need be a Government and a legislative programme that will reverse that decline and invest in infrastructure , healthcare , job and , yes , people . what we have instead be this Bill make a national insurance tax cut that will , accord to Tax Justice UK , see the average worker benefit by — wait for it — £ 8 a week . it be small beer compare with the £ 3 , 000 they have lose to inflation in the last couple of year . of course , in keep with the creed of those on the Government Benches , the well off people be , the more this tax cut will pay out to they . for those on £ 20 , 000 a year or so , the cut be worth about £ 150 a year ; for those on £ 50 , 000 and above , it be worth almost £ 750 . but whether it be a tax cut of £ 150 or £ 750 , this Bill do nothing to rebuild our shattered public service , nothing to bring down NHS waiting time , nothing to adapt this country to the approach climate crisis , and nothing to fix our break adult social care system . as the Resolution Foundation note , public sector investment spending — a key driver of growth — be set to fall by 31 % as a share of gdp between 2024 and 2029 . that be a real - term cut equivalent to £ 17 billion . what do that mean for my constituency ? what do that mean for people in my community ? Norfolk and Waveney have the high rate of malnutrition in the United Kingdom . a little while ago , I go to a school in West Earlham in my constituency and speak to the headteacher about a national article that say it be routine , after 13 year of this Government , for child to have parent who use food bank and to turn up to school with bowleg . I say to she , " when you ' re teach these child , how do you know that they ' re hungry ? " she say , " it ' s quite clear . they eat the sand in the sandpit . " those be the sign that teacher look for to know that child be genuinely hungry . Norfolk and Suffolk have the bad mental health service in the country . Norfolk and Waveney be among the top five dental desert in England . ambulance delay have be go on for over a decade with little sign of improvement . this national insurance cut will do nothing for those service . on the day of the Budget , I speak to the BBC . the interviewer , Andrew Sinclair , say to I , " clive , there ' s a cost of living crisis , and you want more money in the pocket of your constituent . " I say , " yes Andrew , I do , but I also want functional public service . " with those few hundred extra pound each year in someone ' s pocket — £ 8 a week — they will not be able to pay for a private surgeon for their hip operation that they be wait for . they will not be able to pay for a private dentist to extract their tooth , do dental surgery or work on their tooth . they will not be able to buy a classroom for their child , who be sit in one with rot concrete . that will not help they . the Budget , and this Bill , will not help my constituent who be wait for mental health service . I hear this week at a meeting that I organise with my conservative colleague about our fail mental health care system that child have kill themselves because they can not see a psychiatrist or psychologist . the Bill will do nothing for they . who will pay for those service ? there be an answer . we be one of the most unequal economy in the western world when it come to wealth . let we look at wealth . in this country , those with the low income be likely to have a combine tax rate on income and wealth of approximately 44 % per annum . meanwhile , those in the high decile of earner be likely to pay no more than 21 . 5 % per annum on their combine income and wealth . the answer be clear . we can raise billion to pay for the public service we need without raise tax on the low pay or middle earner , and without increase the income tax burden , by put a little more tax on those with the great wealth and the broad shoulder — those who should pay their way and contribute to our public service , which be so badly need . this Bill do none of that . I welcome this Bill , as I do the previous one that reduce national insurance contribution . as a starting point , we must recognise that a lot of the lobbying about our economy tend to come from the big organisation with the deep pocket . around 70 % of people employ in this country work in an enterprise with few than five staff . those business do not necessarily have a big public affair department or a collective sector or trade body to represent they , but they will benefit enormously and directly in their pocket from the decision that we take this afternoon . it concern I a little to hear those on the Opposition Benches who scorn the value of the money that the Bill put back into people ' s pocket , because £ 8 a week might not seem like a huge amount — in the context of an MP ' s salary , perhaps it be not — but particularly for low income household , that £ 8 a week accumulate over the period of a year be a valuable contribution towards a well standard of living . it be more money to spend on the rise cost that household face — car insurance and other bill — or to put towards a family holiday , a well Christmas or more treat for the child . we should recognise that all of that contribute to a high standard of live for people in this country . a lot of today ' s debate have be party political in tone , perhaps regrettably , give how empty the Opposition Benches be . I be elect to public office for the first time in 1998 — a year after the last Labour Government take office . many of we will recall that that Government be elect on a pledge that they would stick to the spending plan put in place by the outgoing Conservative Government in 1997 for their first three year in office . thereafter , they spend , in broad term , 10 % more taxpayer ' money every single year than they raise in taxation revenue . when the country face a significant financial crash in the late 2000 , there be already a huge national debt as a result of the Labour party ' s failure ever to meet their committed expenditure through tax rise , productivity growth or any other method . for I as a local authority councillor , that mean a Labour Government who say , " we be introduce entitlement to high standard of care and an expectation that you will fund it through introduce charge for the most vulnerable people . " that Labour Government require every single local authority to make massive efficiency saving every year in every other part of public service to balance the budget . give some of the pledge that Labour make in the Budget debate , whether on the environment , vat on school fee or windfall taxis , if there be to be a change of Government , we will see yet another period of a Labour Chancellor say , " we fail to raise this money in tax , we have not generate the income , so we be go to borrow , borrow and borrow , and the national debt will continue to rise . " the taxable capacity of our economy and the economy of every country in the western world be an important consideration for we . every major economy have be affect by covid and Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine . we must be careful about how we allocate taxpayer ' money to ensure that we be contribute to growth and focus on the thing that make the big difference to our constituent ' standard of living . the Treasury team have be lobby a great deal on issue from inheritance tax to stamp duty , high rate tax and additional rate tax . I be pleased to see in the Budget that measure have be take or work have begin on thing like reduce the cliff edge that affect people , such as in child benefit . however , we need to recognise that around 11 % of taxpayer in the UK currently pay high rate tax , whereas the national insurance cut benefit , as my hon . friend the Minister say at the Dispatch box , around 29 million work people — the vast majority of people in this country . accord to the Barclays insight report for my constituency , which I receive recently , as I think do every other right hon . and hon . member , the big increase in discretionary expenditure have be on low - income working household . that suggest that the measure take by the Government to date be begin to feed through . let I turn briefly to a number of point that have be raise about the use of national insurance contribution . we hear the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , assert very clearly at the Dispatch Box in Prime Minister ' s question early that a reduction of national insurance mean a cut in the budget for the NHS . it be worth reflect on the Government Actuary ' s quinquennial review , which set out in a lot of detail how national insurance contribution be use , some of their history and how they come to be that way . when national insurance be introduce in 1911 , it be intend to represent — in a physical sense , with an actual stamp on a card — a direct contribution towards someone ' s benefit and pension . it evolve , in particular with the 1948 reform , into the shape we see today . but there be no direct hypothecation between the vast majority of national insurance contribution and any part of public service . in fact , around 94 % of the national insurance fund be spend directly on fund retirement pension . it be a subset of other category of national insurance contribution that represent the big single transfer from nic pay by our constituent into the national health service . as I learn in my time engage with a whole variety of different bit of government , such as the teacher ' pension scheme , people pay in , it go into a pool of Government funding and decision be then make by the Treasury on how to distribute that . in the case of the national insurance fund , we know that one of the issue the Budget begin to deal with really effectively be the recognition of a 17 % statutory maximum on any Treasury contribution to cover shortfall in that expenditure . yet by the middle of this century , as a result of our change demographic , we know that those shortfall will become quite significant . the step make through such measure as the removal of a lifetime limit on pension saving and the uprating of auto - enrolment be example of a Government not just think a couple of year ahead with an election in mind , but think 30 year and 40 year ahead to ensure that we have a sound financial basis for the big single item of Government expenditure in the middle of this century , when all those bill will be come home to roost . that be evidence of a responsible and conservative approach : look at how we can make decision within our taxable capacity that reflect a proper understanding of what the datum tell we about the long - term position . that support thing like an increase saving rate — again , all the datum we be get demonstrate that our constituent be begin to take that seriously — with a view to ensure long - term stability . on that note , I conclude by say that the Treasury and the Government have take exactly the right decision . they recognise that the benefit provide to pensioner household in particular over the past 14 year mean that they be now much , much wealthy , relatively speak , than they use to be , support by the triple lock . they now need to acknowledge that work people , who have bear a significant burden because of covid and the war in Ukraine , need extra money in their pocket . we must set that against the backdrop of an economy where , on average , 800 job have be create for every single day that the Conservatives have in office since 2010 , where the youth unemployment rate have halve since the last Labour Government , and where foreign investment be support the creation of job and investment in productivity , which give we cause to be optimistic and positive that this be genuinely a Budget for a well future . the Liberal Democrats support measure to reduce the tax burden on hard - hit household during the cost of living crisis , but the Bill be yet another deception from the Conservative Government . everyone can see what this allege tax cut really be : a badly execute swindle from this Chancellor in his desperate attempt to convince people he be cut taxis . yet the british people will not be fool . it be clear that , despite his claim to the contrary , the Chancellor be continue to stealth - tax million of hard - work family and pensioner through the freeze on national insurance and income tax threshold , which be subject they to the high tax burden since the second world war . since last April , a typical household have already pay almost £ 1 , 500 extra because of the Chancellor ' s stealth tax hit , while endure high mortgage or rental cost , sky - rocket energy bill , and soar food price at the till — all as a result of decision make by this Conservative Government . despite all that , the Chancellor be still try to pull the wool over our eye . even after the measure propose in the Bill today be enact , that same typical household will be pay an additional £ 366 next year , because the Chancellor have freeze their tax - free personal allowance . bad still will be the hit to pensioner , who will see almost half the gain they receive from the basic state pension over the next four year wipe out by these conservative stealth taxis . that be an £ 8 billion pensioner penalty , all as a result of this Conservative Chancellor effectively take a bolt cutter to the triple lock . it be therefore clear that these deceptive conservative claim to be cut taxis simply be not worth the paper they be write on . in his Budget last week the Chancellor could have give real support to hard - hit household suffer through the cost of living crisis , but instead he deliver yet more of the same from this out - of - touch and out - of - idea Conservative party . the Liberal Democrats have call on the Government to give valuable support to those who be struggle to make end meet , include a mortgage protection fund pay for by a reversal of the conservative tax cut for the big bank so that struggle family do not lose their home , support for renter through the banning of no - fault eviction and the introduction of long standard tenancy , and further help for all household with their energy bill through a doubling of the warm home discount . those step would have make a real difference to family struggle in the middle of a conservative recession . the Chancellor sit on his hand , opt instead for a last - ditch attempt to cling to power ; but across the country , people will not be fool . that be why I table new clause 2 , which I will speak about in more detail in Committee , and to which I hope member on both side of the House will lend their support . the new clause , if accept , would lay bare this Conservative Government ' s stealth tax deception by shine a light on the million of people who will be drag into pay national insurance as a result of the freeze on tax threshold . the Liberal Democrats support measure to ease the tax burden on hard - work family during the cost of living crisis , but we will not be support this deceptive conservative legislation today . for too long the Chancellor have claim to be cut taxis , seemingly give with one hand while take more with the other . that be why voter throughout the country be sick and tired of this out - of - touch conservative Government and be switch to the Liberal Democrats . in seat all over the country , it be clear that the choice at the next election will be between an out - of - touch Conservative MP and a hard - work Liberal Democrat one . I must confess that I have not speak in many Budget - relate debate in the House , partly because I be well aware of the expertise of many other member . it be a matter of some interest and pleasure for I to listen to the like of my right hon . friend the Members for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) as they explain the consequence of , and the reasoning behind , measure such as this , and for that I be grateful . I be also grateful to the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , who be not in the Chamber at the moment , for show up . as my right hon . friend for Witham say , it be good to have a debate about these issue and it be important that we do so , but that be difficult when the Labour Benches stand empty before we . in the word of my office manager , Barbara — who will enjoy the reference — I be a bear of little brain , and I therefore think of Budgets in simple term . there be money come in and there be money that must go out , and hopefully there be a surplus between the two sum . my right hon . friend the Members for Witham and for Wokingham have already cover issue such as growth and productivity so well that I will not deal with they now , but the point that they make bring I to my own first point , which be that Budgets be about choice . much as Opposition member want to make out that this be a single - issue debate that be all about spending , there be choice involve in how a government must spend any money that they have , or must borrow in order to spend . the first of those choice be " do we spend on public service ? " , and the Chancellor have say , very clearly , " we do . " an extra £ 150 billion be be spend on public service , and that be in the context of a health budget of about £ 176 billion a year and a pension budget of £ 124 billion . it be not an insignificant amount . it be not an afterthought . it be not a round - up error that slip past the accountant ' eye in the preparation of the Budget . it be a serious commitment to public service . at this point , I must refer to my own constituency and the Chancellor ' s inclusion of cultural project of national significance , with £ 10 million for Venue Cymru in Aberconwy . we be exceedingly grateful for that , and I know that the council be delighted and surprised , but I do work hard to make the case for it with the Chancellor . as he point out , culture be an investment with a real economic return , and that be something that the student at Ysgol John Bright in my constituency understand . just last week I be talk to the cast of its production of " Chicago " , and Lily , Arron , Isobel and other say how much they appreciate the chance to take part in production not just in the school hall but in the local theatre . they see the value of an investment in that theatre enable future generation to have the same experience . that bring I to my second point about how we choose to spend our money . we can invest it , as the Chancellor have demonstrate — for example , in his reference to a productivity programme . I think he set aside £ 140 million or £ 150 million for productivity within the NHS . no one can describe this as a short - termist Budget , or one that be only think about some event that may happen later this year — I can not imagine what . this be a really forward - look Budget . the third thing that a Chancellor can do with a Budget be repay debt , which I feel very strongly about . the argument be make by the hon . member for Norwich South that we can pay more and more into public service . usually , the argument be that we can pay a penny here or a penny there , which never sound like much , but the debt that build up when we have to borrow to make payment be considerable . let we not forget that the narrative of " just a penny more " or " just give we more money and we ' ll get it do " be test to destruction in 2010 . by the time we get to 2010 , what be the legacy ? a note say , " there ' s no money leave . " I do not write the note ; it be a Member now on the Opposition Benches — then a Minister , no less . we have to address the idea that we should simply throw more money into public service . we have a duty to member of the public to change the narrative of , " this party be bad because it doesn ' t spend ; that party be good because it do spend . " it be not the answer , which be why we have a moral duty — never mind an economic and financial one — to properly make the case for reform . again , I refer back to the Chancellor ' s decision to put £ 140 million or £ 150 million into a productivity boost for the NHS . debt level be increase — that be for sure . health and pension will receive £ 176 . 2 billion and £ 124 . 3 billion respectively this year . the third big public sector spend this year will not be on policing , defence — that be a subject for another debate — education or universal credit , but on the interest on debt repayment . I be sorry to pick on the hon . member for Norwich South , and even sorry that he be not in his place to hear this , but to keep reduce everything to the number of nurse we might be able to recruit , or to the number of hospital we might be able to build , be an irresponsible way of look at public service . the repayment that we make on debt be forecast to be £ 94 billion this year . in simple math , that be the equivalent of build two new primary school every single hour of every single day this year . if we want to reduce stuff to such a level , let we have that conversation , because our debt repayment be cost we two new primary school , at £ 5 million each , every hour — 24 hour a day , 365 day a year . maybe I have get the price slightly wrong , but we can work out the number we know that debt level increase under the last Labour Government . I will not be draw into that discussion — much as I would like to — because this debate be about national insurance , but I will make the point that debt have increase . how have the Conservative Government do that over the last 14 year ? they have spend money on the thing that this country have need . apart from empty coffer , we inherit a global financial crisis . we introduce a programme of austerity , and we have to work that through with three programme of quantitative easing , worth about £ 350 billion . we be then unexpectedly hit by a pandemic , for which our expenditure be about £ 410 billion — equivalent to about £ 6 , 000 per head of population . that cost money to service , and we be now pay it back . none of we know that the pandemic be come . none of we know that a war be come in the east of Europe . none of we know that an energy crisis be come . none of we know that there be go to be inflation across the economy . none of we know these thing , but this Government respond and we write the cheque . when the energy crisis come up , the Government spend £ 67 billion on support business and member of the public . during the covid crisis , £ 140 billion of that £ 410 billion go on shielding business so that when we come out , the economy bounce straight back to where it have be . this be an understanding of how the economy work and of how public finance work . it be distinctively conservative that this be so , and we have show this . there be a fourth thing we can do with that spend . if we be not spend it on public service , invest it or draw down debt , we can choose to cut taxis , and that be where we have come to . it be on the street of Llandudno that I encounter the first person to ask I , " who be go to pay for all of this ? " it be during the covid pandemic , on the King ' s Drive in Llandudno , where a resident and I be have a chat across his garden wall — suitably space at the time , of course . the area have it challenge , and it might be expect that people there would be look for help from the Government , and indeed they do , but that gentleman , who have live on that street for six decade , be the first person to look I in the eye and say , " someone be go to have to pay for all this . " that be an important point . we talk about be honest , and I be sorry to hear some of the comment from the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) about be honest and not pull the wool over people ' s eye . let we start by say , " this cost , and someone have to pay for it . someone have to be responsible for look at how this be pay for . " the choice we make to spend be match by the choice we make on how we spend and where the money go . this government have choose to make a cut in national insurance , and I fully support that . I would say that 2 % be a distinctively conservative amount , in a distinctively conservative approach to tax cutting . it matter ; it be make a difference . we hear that for someone on the UK average salary of £ 34 , 500 , that will be worth about £ 900 , take the two cut of 2 % together . a 4 % cut will be worth about £ 900 . in my constituency the average salary be considerably less ; it be about £ 28 , 000 . Iusb know that some who be listen to this will doubt that , but that be the figure . to somebody on £ 28 , 000 , that 4 % cut will be worth about £ 600 , and that make a difference . that £ 50 a month will make a difference . that bring I to my first comment about the national insurance cut , which be that it be target . this be deliberately intend to make a difference . this be not gesture politic . this be not unfunded . this be not careless . this be not something that be do casually or without thought or regard . it be target , and 27 million people be well off . there have be talk of why pensioner have not be include , but pensioner have benefit from the triple lock . there have also be talk that the well - off receive more of a cut . the nature of tax be the more you receive , the more you pay . that be exactly the argument make by the hon . member for Norwich South , and I might characterise it as " soak the rich " , yet that somehow seem to be an argument against provide a tax cut . that be nonsense and it demonstrate a misunderstanding of finance that exist on the Opposition Benches . this measure be target because it be aim at those who be in work . it be distinctively conservative to encourage and reward those in work and to say to they , " at the end of this month you will have more leave over in your pay cheque than you do before . why ? because the Government have make that decision to impact your pay cheque so that you can take home more . " if we be go to talk about comparison , we should go back to 2010 and say that over these 14 year the attitude to work and the understanding of the importance of work be reflect in the fact that , on average , 800 new job a day have be create under this Conservative Government . it be a distinctively conservative thing to target finance intelligently and to do it to encourage people into work and encourage they in that work . my second point be that it be the second cut in a row , and dare I say it — oh , there be no one on the Opposition Benches to listen to this — there be a plan to reduce the tax burden . we have establish that there be a need for the Government to make payment to support people and business through the pandemic , the energy crisis and inflation , but we be now cut the rate to encourage work , and it be a plan . it be distinctively conservative to have a plan , and 4p off the tax on my wage and their wage be a big cut by any estimation . the hon . member for Richmond Park talk about the Chancellor take a bolt cutter to the triple lock , and I remind she that pension be structure in such a way that people do not pay tax when they pay in , so that the sum build up and they benefit from the interest it accrue — it grow fast over time . the other side be that they pay some tax when they take their pension . the pension be never intend to be tax free , and there have always be an expectation that there will be some payment to be make . that be not take a bolt cutter to the triple lock . it be this Chancellor who commit to the triple lock , and that commitment , depend on the estimate , have cost the Government £ 10 billion . there be other way to calculate the pension , such as have a double lock , measure it against the consumer price index or measure it against earning , but say that , no , the triple lock stand have cost the Government £ 10 billion more , which be £ 10 billion in pensioner ' pocket . let nobody say that this government do not care about pensioner or the elderly — and I say that as an MP represent a constituency where 27 % of my constituent be over the age of 65 . again , we all have to make a payment , and this be about talk straight . we may have forget the capital relief — the full expensing — announce in the last autumn statement . again , that have a cost , but it be a real benefit to business . that be £ 50 billion over five year . there might be question about that estimate , but it be another big commitment , this time not to pensioner but to business . to come back to my point about a plan , we have make a commitment to pensioner — an expensive one , but the right one — and we have make a commitment to business to encourage growth , so it make sense that in this Budget we have make a commitment to worker . again , this sound like a plan ; it sound to I like there be an intentionality that I simply do not see or hear from Opposition Members . my third point be that I be very happy with the aspiration to reduce far or eliminate national insurance . it be distinctively conservative to want to reduce tax far , and it be distinctively conservative to make tax simple . this be perhaps not the time to debate other tax method or flat taxis , but I see no problem with suggest our direction of travel . what I find remarkable be that the Opposition ' s immediate reaction be to say , " oh , that ' s unfunded . " at some point in the management of the public finance , we have to balance where the money come from with where it be go . it be completely reasonable to say that we have an aspiration to reduce taxis . if it be a case of eliminate national insurance , so be it . I will bring my remark to a close — [ interruption . ] I can hear the chuntering from the small number of Opposition Members present , and I thank the hon . member for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) for join her Front - Bench colleague . the doctor say that sometimes medicine do not taste so good , and I have a feeling that some of the thing I be talk about do not taste good to those on the other side of this House , because this be medicine ; I be talk about a responsible approach to public finance , tell the truth , and deal with people as adult by say , " money have be spend and now money be have to be pay back . " the key point be that we be still manage to bring cut to the tax pay by worker . as I say , we have a trajectory on that : we have give money to pensioner — those who need it ; we have give money to business , through capital relief and full expensing ; and now we be do this for worker . this be distinctively conservative because of the intentionality , the plan and the focus on those who need it , the business that create growth and wealth , and the worker we wish to incentivise with it . we understand that the opposition will vote for these cut , but they can not muster any enthusiasm for they — they certainly can not muster any debate about they . we know that Opposition member be here somewhere , because , presumably , they will all turn up to vote in a minute , but they be not on the Benches now . the question be : what be the Labour plan for tax ? I be very much enjoy what my hon . friend have to say to the House about this Budget . he will have hear the saying many time in the local government world that , " culture eat strategy for breakfast " . one opposition party have a strategy of try to pretend it have no funding commitment but it have a deeply ingrain culture of tax and spend , whereas we have a party of government whose culture and strategy be very much about a long - term trajectory of tax cut and live within our mean . do he agree that it be the culture in the Government of live within our mean that will out after this election ? my hon . friend make a good point , in that , first , culture do eat strategy . we can strip away all the word about this but his point about cut our cloth and live within our mean describe exactly what we have see happen . I have try to set out , albeit perhaps rather clumsily — I ask Members to forgive I if that be so — that there be a 10 - year story here of inherit no money , and run into a pandemic that nobody expect , a war that no one plan , an energy crisis and global inflation . yet this Government turn up with a Budget that say to the worker , " 4p less in the pound be what you be have to pay . " . that be remarkable . we might argue about the how s , why s and wherefore , but we have to be honest about the fact that the headwind we have encounter as a nation over the past decade be not expect . give that we start from a point of have no money — to use the phrase on the note leave by the Labour Minister — it be extraordinary that we be here today debate another 2p off tax . it be even more extraordinary to I that the opposition have not get the bottle to turn up for a debate as important as this . I have to follow the comment make by the hon . member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) . I be listen carefully and try to pick out something useful from his speech , and I do find a line : someone be go to have to pay . SNP Members know that public service be go to have to pay for this measure , which be why we table our reason amendment ; there be go to be a crush effect on they . the hon . Gentleman also talk about debt level , but , unfortunately , like the Labour and Tory party , he do not talk about debt level accrue in household because of the cost of living crisis . they never mention people in their house who be struggle through the situation they be face with at the moment . that be for something else , but those be the effect on people in real life while we be just talk around the subject . I think I hear the Labour Front Bencher say that in this Budget for every £ 5 people get back , they will lose £ 10 . [ interruption . ] that be not be disagree with , so I believe it be correct , and yet labour will still back this Bill ; Labour Members will not vote against it today . this be another measure on that journey to take money out of people ' s pocket . it be good to hear the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) speak about the issue , include the reason why we have bring forward our reason amendment . he talk about the long " economic creed " of this type of Bill that privatise public service . I enjoy his speech and agree with it . I hope he will persuade his colleague and try to change their mind , so that they come back and vote against the Bill . I hope he will join we in the Lobby as well — it be a shame he be not in his place to hear that just now . this be a Parliament of flatline growth and fall living standard . the Labour party keep ask where the money be come from , yet it be afraid to ask that question about the measure set out in this Bill because it do not want to tackle the subject . when the Institute for Fiscal Studies call out both the Government and the Labour party for " a conspiracy of silence " over the effect of the Chancellor ' s Budget , include these measure , it be not hard to drill down to see why the Bill should be oppose . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? go on . the hon . Gentleman have have 20 minute , but I will give he another go . the hon . Gentleman be be generous ; I appreciate that he have a speech to give . the fact be that somebody on the national living wage , or the minimum wage as it be in 2010 , be now , in 2024 , 35 % well off in real term . that be not a trajectory of decline : somebody on the bottom rung of society , in term of earning , be well off . I think the hon . Gentleman have get through all that stuff in his speech . I will let he know just now that , because of this measure , anybody earn up to £ 19 , 000 per annum will still be bad off , or at least no well off , because of frozen threshold under the control of his Government . the big gainer be those earn over £ 50 , 000 per annum . as a result of the change and frozen threshold , someone work full time and earn the minimum wage will see a net tax increase of more than £ 200 , accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies . the Resolution Foundation say that there will be a 0 . 9 % fall in real term in household disposable income between 2019 and 2025 . the Office for Budget Responsibility point out again this week that the Government make their own fiscal rule . they decide what they be go to do and make decision that they take forward . there be not some magic envelope that they have to work within , where they have no flexibility and be unable to move outside that envelope or do anything different . they can make choice , but the choice they be make be bad one . austerity be a choice that this Government have make time and again , with the same outcome : 2010 , 2015 , 2017 and 2019 — failure , failure , failure and failure . if that be not enough , throw a disastrous Brexit and a toxic mini - Budget into the mix and see what happen . the measure in the Bill be a grubby election gimmick that make thing much bad for everyone . People be struggle . they be struggle with food price , which have be boost by Brexit to over 25 % more than they be a couple of year ago . million of people be pay hundred of pound more on mortgage . opening letter , email and app show the sharp interest they be pay for energy cost . the measure , along with the lack of investment in public service , leave public service cut beyond reasonable imagination . it be not just I say that . the Institute for Government have say : " the reality be that these spending plan will be impossible to deliver " , as have other institute . the Resolution Foundation say they be " fiscal fiction " . let we think about the impact of that . where be the Labour party on that subject ? where be the so - call " party of labour " on the subject ? miss in action when its member should be here . what be the point ? the Labour party in Scotland have make the point that change be come , but can my hon . friend explain to I , other than change the colour of the rosette over no . 10 Downing Street , what that change actually be ? give that Labour Members be not vote against this Budget and they have agree with the Government on Gaza and on multiple other policy area , what be the point of Labour ? my hon . friend make a good point . that be underline the other day when the labour leader be interview by Sophy Ridge , and he be not willing to say what Labour would do differently . it be also underline by the campaign co - ordinator , the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) , who would not disagree with any part of the Tories ' horrible Budget . what be the point of Labour ? what be the point in this Government continue along this disastrous path that they have put in place ? they say that they want to increase productivity in the UK , but their productivity aim be destine to be fatally undermine by inevitable public sector industrial action , which worker will be right to take . they will also then have to face the policy panic that will follow . no , sorry , the Conservatives will not be in Government . it will be labour that will have to face those policy panic and the u - turn that will inevitably have to be make . this Bill have be design by loser . it will mean that many more people will be lose what they value : decent public service . it be not only , as the Chancellor say , scottish oil and gas that be lose out . other loser include : action on climate change , the just transition and , yes , let we not forget labour abandon its £ 28 billion a year promise to invest in the green economy . that have turn to dust as well . what we need in the Budget be measure to help people with food , with mortgage , with rent and with energy cost . we need public service protect , and proper investment in the NHS . this be a desperately shoddy Bill that plunge our public sector into a desperate and dark future that help few and hurt many . the nation of the UK need well , and Scotland deserve to be out of this Westminster austerity nightmare . be the last to speak in these debate have become a bit of a habit — and with you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . I rise to speak very much in favour of this Bill . it deliver a 2 % cut in national insurance , which will be hugely welcome by thousand of household in my constituency , and indeed across the country . for someone on the average wage , this change , combine with the 2 % cut that we introduce in January , will mean a £ 900 cut , which , for a household with two people earn , be £ 1 , 800 a year . although that be not life - change money , for many working household across this country , that £ 150 a month will make a significant difference in ease the pressure on their household budget and the challenge they currently face . we must acknowledge that we can make this cut only because of the difficult decision that we have consistently make over many year to be responsible in our handling of the public finance . I know I say that yesterday , but it need to be continually repeat . this be against a backdrop of two of the big shock to our economy and public finance that any of we will ever live through : the pandemic and then the war in Ukraine and the energy crisis it produce . the Government have spend nearly half a trillion pound support the country , keep people in work , and support business and household . I know that labour bang on about the fact that we have have to increase taxis to pay for all of that , but we all know that , have Labour be in power over the past few year , the bill would have be even high , because it want long lockdown and tight restriction . every time we come forward with measure of support , Labour say that they be not enough and that we should be spend more . therefore , as much as Labour Members may criticise — and they think it be their job to do so — the country know that , have they be in power , the bill would have be high and we would have have to put up taxis by even more in order to balance the book . but because of the difficult decision that we have make , we be now able to start to cut taxis for people , which be hugely welcome . despite all that be be say , the reality be that the effective tax rate be at the low it have be since 1975 . let we not forget that shortly after 1975 , under a Labour Government , the top tax rate in this country be 83 % . I know why Labour member talk about high taxis ; it be because they know more about high taxis than anyone else . we also have to put this in the context of the personal allowance be increase since 2010 , when it be £ 6 , 475 . it be now £ 12 , 570 . the personal allowance have almost double , which have be a welcome and important measure . the Labour party criticise we because we have have to make the difficult decision to freeze the personal allowance for a few year , but let we remember that , between 2010 and 2021 , Labour vote against every single Finance Bill that we introduce to increase the personal allowance . every time we try to increase the personal allowance , Labour oppose it , so we will take no lesson from Labour when it come to personal allowance . I welcome the Government ' s ambition to continue to reduce national insurance and ultimately scrap it , because it be a double tax on work . that be the right ambition , and let we be clear that it be an ambition . I know that Labour Front Benchers be enjoy make a point about that . after the fiasco of Labour ' s £ 28 billion green deal promise — which be not a promise , then be , and now be not — I would have think that Labour would know the difference between an ambition and a promise . it be an ambition , and it be absolutely right to have that ambition . I look up a headline from 2020 in the Guardian — not the most pro - conservative , right - wing newspaper — which say , " a truly bold Chancellor would scrap national insurance " . I be very happy that we have a bold Chancellor who have say that the Government ' s ambition be to scrap national insurance . the hon . Member mention the green deal . I have hundred of constituent who be essentially screw under the 2010 Government ' s green deal with the Lib Dems . rogue builder be allow to screw they out of thousand of pound . the Government have do nothing for my constituent . what do he have to say about that ? order . Mr Newlands , you be incredibly intelligent . maybe next time you will think of a different way of express that . I be not sure what the hon . member ' s intervention have to do with the Bill , but I be sure that all his constituent who be in work will welcome the 4 % cut in national insurance . the Scottish National party have raise taxis to their high level anywhere in the United Kingdom , so I be sure that his constituent will be grateful for the Bill . like my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) , I represent a constituency with a high - than - average number of pensioner . some of they have be in touch with I question why , as far as they could see , there be nothing in the Budget for they . clearly , cut national insurance do not affect they because they do not pay it . we have to remember that the Government have keep the triple lock commitment . pensioner rightly have a 10 % rise in their pension last year . I be one of those who fight hard in the autumn of 2022 to ensure that we keep that commitment . next month , they will rightly get a furth 8 . 5 % rise in their pension . when those measure be combine , pension will have go up by 18 . 5 % over two year , which be a significant rise . we have rightly keep our promise to pensioner . it be in that context that the Government have now rightly focus on support people in work and in job , which be very welcome . we have to set this Bill and the 2 % cut that it deliver in the context of the 2 % cut that we make in January and the fact that , because of our careful management of the public finance and the economy , inflation be come down and the green shoot of growth be back in our economy . for those reason , we be able to make the decision to cut national insurance . I be happy to vote for the Bill this evening . to start the wind - up , I call Tulip Siddiq . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . Labour will always support policy that ease the burden on work people . Labour have say consistently that we want taxis on work people to be low . that be why , two year ago , when the current Prime Minister want to increase national insurance , we oppose it . that be why we support the cut to national insurance last autumn and why we will support these measure we be debate to bring down national insurance by a further 2p . let we be clear , however , that the measure come in the context of the high tax burden on work people since 1949 — a tax burden that be continue to rise . the british public face not just further tax rise , but stagnant growth and wage , price still go up in the shop , and high mortgage and rent . indeed , this will be the only Parliament on record in which living standard have fall . unwilling and unable to fix the economic mess that they have create , the Government have resort to empty promise — pledge after pledge , but never a plan . last week , the Chancellor make a £ 46 billion unfunded promise to abolish national insurance altogether , with no explanation of how he would pay for it . I look forward to the Minister explain in his speech exactly how it will be pay for . the british people be sick and tired of conservative spin . let we take the Government ' s claim that a person on average earning will be £ 900 well off as result of this national insurance cut , when combine with the change make in January . that completely ignore the Chancellor ' s own stealth tax rise . his decision not to increase tax threshold in line with inflation mean that the tax burden be forecast to rise by another £ 41 . 1 billion over the next five year . that fiscal drag will create 3 . 7 million new taxpayer by 2028 - 29 . OBR figure show that for every 10p extra that work people pay in tax under this plan , they will get back only 5p as result of the combine cut to national insurance contribution . as usual , the Conservatives give with one hand , and take with the other , and they expect the british public to be grateful . Paul Johnson , the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , say after last week ' s Budget that " this remain a parliament of record tax rise " , and that be before we consider the rise cost of bill , with food price up by 25 % , rent by 10 % and mortgage by an average of £ 240 a month . rather than people be £ 900 well off , as the Conservatives claim , household income be set to fall by £ 200 over the course of this Parliament . a week ago , the Chancellor have the opportunity to deliver a Budget that would finally break our country out of the low - growth , low - wage , high - tax cycle that we have be trap in because of 14 year of economic failure . the british people need a Budget for the long term to bring prosperity and rebuild our public service , and yet the Chancellor end his Budget with a £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan to abolish national insurance . that would leave a gape hole in the public finance , put family finance at risk and create huge uncertainty for pensioner . I have not hear one attempt from the Government Benches to explain where that money will come from . I look forward to the Minister ' s response , because I be sure he will break down exactly where that £ 46 billion will come from . if the measure be so bad , why be the hon . Lady not vote against it ? I will not take any lecture from a party that put oil and gas company ahead of work people . if the hon . Member want to change his policy on oil and gas company have priority over work people , he can intervene again , but somehow I do not think that it will change . the last time the Conservatives implement a proposal like this , just 18 month ago , they crash the economy . in fact , the Chancellor ' s plan to abolish national insurance contribution would cost more per year than the proposal in that disastrous mini - Budget . the Conservatives might deny it , but million of people be still pay the price of their last ideological experiment : the typical family face an extra £ 240 a month when remortgage this year . the Chancellor ' s commitment last week expose a Conservative Government who be put party first and country second . labour be under no illusion about the state of the public finance after 14 year of conservative government . we know that if we be elect at the next general election , we will have to take tough decision in government , but instead of the chaos and recklessness we have see under the Conservatives , Labour will bring stability and security back to the economy . we will never make a commitment without first say where the money will come from . we will always be honest with the public because that be the responsible approach . I hope that the Minister , whom I like very much , will finally come clean with the british people in his response . I hope that he will finally break with his party ' s irresponsible promise and endless spin . I hope that he will be honest and say that , as a result of decision take by his Government , the tax burden on work people be forecast to go up each year over the next five year , and that for every 10p extra that work people pay in tax under the Conservatives , they will get only 5p back . most importantly , I hope that he take the opportunity to be straight with the british people , as we have repeatedly ask he to do , by set out exactly how his Government will pay for their unfunded £ 46 billion promise to abolish national insurance . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I be finish . the british people deserve well . this be just another conservative pledge without a plan . the Conservatives should call a general election now . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution . I think it would be fair to say that a range of perspective have be present , but most of we — certainly on the Government Benches — agree that this be an important piece of legislation . it will deliver tax cut that make the tax system fair , while rewarding and incentivising work , and grow the economy in a sustainable way . the national insurance cut be an important part of that , and they be policy . I want to respond to the confusion of the hon . member for Hampstead and Kilburn ( Tulip Siddiq ) , which be understandable give that we have hear promise , policy , aspiration and ambition from the Labour party in relation to the £ 28 billion . let I be clear : it be my party ' s ambition to eliminate national insurance . I know that Labour member do not understand what the word " ambition " mean and that it be difficult , but it be an ambition . that be the difference . I will briefly reiterate the Bill ' s main measure and what they seek to achieve . first , the Bill build on the cut to national insurance announce in the autumn statement by reduce the main rate of class 1 employee nic from 10 % to 8 % . that change will come into effect from 6 April 2024 , with employee benefit from April onwards as employer make the change to their payroll system . secondly , the Bill reduce the self - employ class 4 main rate of nic from 8 % to 6 % from 6 April . that follow on from the one percentage point reduction to the main rate of class 4 nic from 9 % to 8 % announce in the autumn statement 2023 . now that inflation be fall and the economy be improve , as we see in this morning ' s figure , which I be sure the opposition welcome , we can responsibly return some money to taxpayer , but it be important to do so in a way that support work and grow a sustainable economy for the future . a UK employee can already earn more money before pay income tax and social security contribution than an employee in any other G7 country , and thank to the NICs cut in the autumn statement and the spring Budget and above - inflation increase to threshold since 2010 , an average worker on £ 35 , 400 in 2024 - 25 will pay over £ 1 , 500 less in personal taxis than they would have do if the threshold have just increase in line with inflation . as my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) point out very well , in contrast to the comment of the hon . member for Hampstead and Kilburn , we have reduce the amount of tax pay by increase the threshold from £ 6 , 500 to more than £ 12 , 500 over the period in which we have be in office . labour oppose many of those threshold increase . my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay also make the important point that the measure we have take in recent fiscal event have be focus on help 29 million worker . some 27 million employee will benefit from an average £ 900 saving in national insurance , but of course , we also care deeply about pensioner . those on the full basic pension will receive an extra £ 700 in April and those on the full new state pension will receive an extra £ 900 , so 12 million pensioner will also benefit from the significant increase that we will provide through the triple lock . of course , it be perfectly fair that worker also get some advantage — they will be receive the benefit I have outline . the Government be cut taxis in a responsible way , and have take difficult but responsible decision to restore the public finance in the wake of global crisis . the Minister have use the word " responsible " a number of time . as have be point out by many organisation , not least the Institute for Fiscal Studies and the OBR , there will be substantial cut to public service . with many english council already in special measure — effective bankruptcy — where do the Minister see those cut fall ? how will they filter through to the public , and what will be the effect on public sector job ? as the hon . Member will be aware and as the Chancellor outline , base on current spending assumption , total departmental spending will still be £ 86 billion high in real term by 2028 - 29 than at the start of this Parliament . if he be listen to the debate early this week , he will be aware that we will increase spending in real term by 1 % during the forecast period . the hon . member and other have raise point about fairness and make sure that we look after the most vulnerable in society , which be of course something we be commit to . distributional analysis publish alongside the spring Budget show that the typical household at any income decile will see a net benefit in 2024 - 25 as a result of government decision make in the autumn statement — and , indeed , from the autumn statement 2022 onwards — and that low - income household will see the large benefit as a percentage of income . we have mention many time our commitment to the national living wage . it will soon increase by 9 . 8 % to £ 11 . 44 , which be expect to benefit around 2 . 7 million worker . it be important to stress that from April , a full - time national living wage worker ' s take - home pay will be 35 % great in real term than it be in 2010 , due to successive increase in the national living wage and change to personal tax rate and threshold . to respond to a few other comment make by right hon . and hon . member , my right hon . friend the Members for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) both give excellent speech , in which they not only champion worker — include the self - employ — but highlight the fact that we have to operate in a particular context . as have be mention many time today , we be in a difficult financial situation because of a global pandemic that hit the global economy , which be follow by the invasion of Ukraine and the significant impact it have on inflation around the world . the question , as my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham point out , be how much high taxis would be if Labour have be in charge . throughout the pandemic , the Government receive a lot of support from member on both side of the Chamber . that be completely right , but many member be call for even great intervention and even long lockdown , which would potentially have do immense damage to the economy . some hon . member raise the contributory principle . in our ambition for further reduction in national insurance , we will make sure that the future tax system have the right mechanism for establish entitlement to contributory benefit , include the state pension . my right hon . Friend also mention the rise in the vat threshold , which be really important . it will go from £ 85 , 000 to £ 90 , 000 , which mean that 28 , 000 few small business will be register for vat . my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) highlight this Government ' s record on job in create 800 job a day and in significantly reduce youth unemployment , of which we can all be proud . my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) , who raise many important point in his speech , point out the rather irresponsible scaremongering we have hear today from those on the Labour Front Bench relate to spending on pension and the NHS . the opposition should be well aware , especially if they wish to form a government , that the money raise by nic do not determine the amount go to the NHS and state pension . we have announce increase funding to the NHS and we be uprating state pension by 8 . 5 % this year , as I have mention . we on these Benches can tolerate a decent debate — we be fairly robust — but we will not tolerate irresponsible scaremongering , especially when target at the most vulnerable in society , purely to try to take political advantage from make up policy that do not exist . I hope that at some point the opposition will either get some economic competence or apologise for that . this really important Bill deliver tax cut for over 29 million work people . a yearly saving of over £ 450 for the average worker will result from this Bill alone . take together with the cut to nic at the autumn statement , it will be worth over £ 900 per year for the average worker . this will benefit household throughout the United Kingdom and in every single constituency represent in this place . however , here we be again , and in nearly three hour of debate , we have hear nothing but doom and gloom from the opposition . how disappointed they must have be this morning to hear that the economy have grow . while I be not pretend for one minute that everything be perfect — as I have say , our constituent and the country have be through a very challenging time — it be important to recognise , welcome and applaud success , especially if a party want to lead a country , champion trade abroad and attract investment . what a terrible advert for the UK we have hear from the opposition today , who be completely lack in confidence and ambition for our economy and our worker . the national insurance cut we be debate reward work and will provide a further boost to the economy . we be turn a corner , and the plan be work . while we want to put more money back into people ' s pocket , the Opposition want to take more out , and while we take every opportunity to talk the country up , they take every opportunity to talk Britain down . the choice be very clear : a plan for growth and a bright future with the Conservatives , or no hope , no clue and no plan with the Opposition . I commend the Bill to the House . should there be a vote on the amendment , 10 minute will be allow , and if there be then a vote on Second Reading , eight minute will be allow . question put , that the amendment be make . Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill John McNally Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Gavin Newlands Steven Bonnar Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Amanda Milling the House divide : Ayes 44 , Noes 300 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill John McNally Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Gavin Newlands Steven Bonnar the House divide : Ayes 304 , Noes 43 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Committee of the whole House ( Order , this day ) . further proceeding on the Bill stand postpone ( Order , this day ) . National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide that be attributable to : ( a ) reduce the main primary percentage for Class 1 primary national insurance contribution to 8 % ( and reduce the percentage specify in regulation 131 of the Social Security Contributions Regulations 2001 to 1 . 85 % ) , and ( b ) reduce the main Class 4 percentage for Class 4 national insurance contribution to 6 % . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Proceedings resume ( Order , this day ) consider in Committee ( Order , this day ) [ Mr Nigel Evans in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee of the whole House they should not address the Chair as Deputy Speaker . they should please use our name when address the Chair . Madam Chair , Chair , Madam Chairman or Mr Chairman be also acceptable — I think I have be call all of those at some stage . clause 1 - reduction in rate Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider clause 2 and 3 stand part . I will take the select new clause as a separate debate after the clause stand debate . I outline the purpose of the Bill in my early speech . it be a short and clear Bill with a very clear purpose . it be our desire to move quickly in order for the change to take effect from 6 April 2024 . I sense member ' desire to move quickly in cut people ' s taxis , and I will detain the Committee no long . I fear that my speech may be marginally long than the Minister ' s , but I can assure you , Mr Chair , that it will not be too lengthy , because , as I make clear on Second Reading , we will support the national insurance reduction that the clause in the Bill seek to deliver . clause 1 seek to reduce national insurance contribution by reduce the main rate of employee class 1 and self - employ class 4 contribution , as well as the reduce rate that apply to a historic group of married woman and widow . clause 2 seek to amend the calculation of annual maximum contribution and be effectively consequential on clause 1 . clause 3 set out that the Bill will come into force on 6 April . I would like the Minister to answer a couple of question when he respond . will he set out what conversation he have have with employer and payroll software developer about whether they will be ready to implement the provision in this Bill from the start of the next financial year ? I think I hear the Exchequer Secretary , the hon . member for Grantham and Stamford ( Gareth Davies ) , say on Second Reading that he be confident that a majority of employee would receive this tax cut at the beginning of the financial year , but be the Minister confident that every relevant employee will indeed receive the cut to national insurance in their first pay cheque of financial year 2024 - 25 ? more widely , we support what this simple Bill seek to achieve , so we will support all three clause be approve by this Committee of the whole House . that be marginally long , as the hon . Gentleman say . I call Kirsty Blackman . thank you very much , Mr Chair — hopefully that be an acceptable form of address to use . I want to speak about the Bill in general and some of our concern about it . the reality be that this be the wrong measure at the wrong time , as I say on Second Reading . early , the hon . member for Hampstead and Kilburn ( Tulip Siddiq ) speak about her concern about the SNP ' s policy on oil and gas . she say that we be not put worker first . unfortunately , the Labour party ' s plan for green investment in energy mean that 100 , 000 job will be lose in Scotland , which be very clearly not put worker first — unless it be only worker in England who count — give that the money will go on nuclear power . on the detail of this Bill , the reality be that public service be creak and really struggle . I have speak to the Electoral Commission , which be concern about whether it will even be able to deliver election properly , give that mandatory voter ID have be introduce . the commission be able to co - opt people from other area in order to ensure that all the recent by - election be run properly . will the Minister make it absolutely clear that if there be a general election this year — which there almost have to be ; there certainly have to be one in the come financial year — local authority will have enough money and people to be able to deliver and service those election ? will they have enough resource to be able to do that ? the 2022 autumn statement allocate more money to the NHS for 2024 - 25 than this Budget allocate , so it be a bit of a cheek for any Conservative Member to stand up and say that the Government be put more money into the NHS . they be put less money into the NHS than they propose in autumn 2022 . the consequential that arise from the increase this year be actually less than the in - year consequential that the Scottish Government have for the NHS in this current year , so it be a very minor increase , because it only work out to in - year term — [ interruption . ] do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) want to intervene ? it be ridiculous for the Government to say , " this extra money be go into the NHS " when it be demonstrably less than they intend to spend on the NHS back in autumn 2022 . the Bill be go to make change to the national insurance rate , and those change will disproportionately impact high earner . the Minister be slightly disingenuous when he say that the change represent a high percentage for people on low income . yes , but that be significantly less money . a band 2 worker in the NHS will be get a £ 341 reduction in their national insurance rate . an MP in this House will get four time that . how be it fair that somebody in this House who be , in the main , not struggle to make end meet will get £ 1 , 300 when someone work in the NHS will get only £ 300 ? nhs worker have see exactly the same increase in their energy bill as we have . they have see exactly the same increase in council tax — actually , no , they have see a much high increase in their council tax bill if they live in England compare with those who live in Scotland . they have see the same 25 % hike in food price . give that those on low income spend more money on food proportionately than those on high income , that 25 % inflation in food price disproportionately hit family who be earn less . therefore , we need to give even more to those family , rather than say , " well , it ' s a high percentage of your income so you ' re okay . you ' ll be fine with £ 340 , but those people who be earn 85 grand a year stand in the House of Commons deserve £ 1 , 300 . " the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) make a very good speech on this change , and as he say , it be the essence of trickle - down economic in action . the Government be hope that if rich people get rich and inequality increase , those people at the bottom of the pile will somehow magically get rich as well . there be much well way to do this . one of the bad thing about this whole situation — apart from the fact that Labour member be unwilling to oppose it — be the decimation of public service that will result from it . the fact be that we have have 14 year of austerity and that be set to continue . People be go to lose out on vital service . the NHS be absolutely vital . every one of we have have some sort of interaction with the NHS , yet the Government be set themselves up for decade of pay battle with staff member because they will be unable to give the pay uplift that people deserve . they be set we up for the decimation of those service . I mention in my Budget speech last week that £ 1 billion - worth of cut have be make by local council to art funding . that mean child can not access art education , can not go to a local theatre with reduce - price ticket from their local council , and can not access all these extra thing . People be struggle to access the most basic service because local authority be creak at the seam , yet the UK Government ' s priority be to allow a 4 . 99 % increase in council tax and to ensure that high earner get £ 1 , 300 whereas those on the minimum wage of £ 11 . 44 an hour who work 20 hour a week see absolutely no benefit . I probably will not respond to everything we have hear today , as we thoroughly address many of the issue in the Budget debate . in response to the new comment , I assure the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) that we always ensure that the democratic process be adequately fund . she be dismissive of the £ 2 . 45 billion increase in nhs spending that be outline in the Budget , but it be a significant amount and , as she be aware , it be a real - term increase . I agree with the hon . Lady on the importance of art , culture and the other area she mention , which be precisely why the Budget have measure to extend tax relief . my opposite number , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , ask about the logistic of implement and execute the tax change . we understand the impact of policy change , and I put on record how grateful we be for all those who have implement and execute the recent change so speedily and effectively . employee whose employer be unable to make change in time , and who have leave their employment , may request a refund from HMRC . the Government be confident that the majority of software developer will be able to make change to their payroll software in time for 6 April . on the new clause , we have outline the policy today . the impact of any change to policy would , of course , be subject to the usual public scrutiny of cost , include from the OBR . it be therefore not necessary to produce a report at this stage . the OBR ' s " economic and fiscal outlook " publication for the spring 2024 Budget include an analysis of the impact of threshold freeze , include on the number of people bring into pay tax . it be therefore not necessary to produce an additional report at this stage , so we do not believe new clause 1 be necessary . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 and 3 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - Review of the effect of reduce employee and self - employ NIC contribution to zero " ( 1 ) the Treasury must publish before the end of the parliamentary session in which this Act be pass an analysis of the effect of — ( a ) replace " 8 % " with " 0 % " in section 1 ( 1 ) of this Act , ( b ) replace " 1 . 85 % " with " 0 % " in section 1 ( 2 ) of this Act , and ( c ) replace " 6 % " with " 0 % " in section 1 ( 3 ) of this Act . ( 2 ) the analysis in subsection ( 1 ) must set out the expect impact of the change in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) to ( c ) on total receipt to the National Insurance Fund in each of the financial year from 2024 / 25 to 2028 / 29 . ( 3 ) the Treasury must request the Government Actuary to make an assessment of the consequence for the Consolidated Fund in each of the financial year from 2024 / 25 to 2028 / 29 of shortfall in the National Insurance Fund that would result from a zero rate for employee and self - employ national insurance contribution . " — ( James Murray . ) this new clause would require the Government , before the end of the current parliamentary session , to set out what the impact would be on total receipt from national insurance and overall public finance of reduce national insurance contribution for employee and self - employ people to zero . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to consider new clause 2 — Review of effect of frozen threshold — " the Treasury must lay before the House of Commons within three month of the passing of this Act a report which set out its forecast of the change to the number of people pay national insurance contribution as a result of the threshold for payment of national insurance remain freeze over the period 2023 / 24 to 2027 / 28 , rather than rise in line with CPI . " as I make clear in the previous debate , we support the national insurance reduction that the Bill seek to deliver . however , the Chancellor follow the announcement of these reduction in last week ' s Budget speech by pull a rabbit out of his hat that , frankly , leave we shock and deeply concerned . the Chancellor close his Budget statement by commit the conservative party to an unfunded £ 46 billion tax plan . it be quite incredible , and it tell we everything we need to know about the state of the conservative party that he would use his last Budget before the general election to promise a plan that leave a £ 46 billion hole in the public finance , that put family finance at risk , and that raise the prospect of high tax bill for pensioner across the country . People across Britain be still pay the price for the reckless and unfunded tax plan in the disastrous mini - Budget , so it beggar belief that the very top of the conservative party — the Prime Minister and the Chancellor — now want to go into the general election with an unfunded tax plan even great than we see in the autumn of 2022 . we know just how damaging and irresponsible the Conservatives ' unfunded tax plan be for the british economy and for family across the country . yet for a week now , and in Parliament today , minister from the Prime Minister down have be unable to say how this £ 46 billion tax plan will be fund . People deserve answer . be the Conservatives plan to increase taxis , include on Britain ' s 8 million taxpaying pensioner ? be they plan to increase borrowing ? be they plan to cut our vital public service to pay for their £ 46 billion black hole ? minister be refuse to answer , so our new clause 1 will force they to do so . new clause 1 would therefore require the Treasury to come clean and set out the impact of the Conservatives ' plan to reduce national insurance contribution for employee and self - employ people to zero . it would force the Treasury to be honest about the impact of their plan on total receipt from national insurance , and the impact that would have on overall public finance . it would compel the Government to set out how they would fund the black hole that their plan create . I urge member in all part of the House to support our new clause , include Conservative Members — if they want to prove that they can put country before party ; and fiscal responsibility ahead of loyalty to their weak Prime Minister . this vote matter because the public deserve answer on the Conservatives ' £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I be go to make some progress . the public deserve to know whether the Prime Minister ' s commitment to abolish national insurance mean tax hike for pensioner , even high borrowing , cut to important public service , or all of the above . I hate read and I probably will not be able to read this out either , because my eye be not good . the shadow Minister talk about what the Chancellor say at the end of the Budget , so let I tell he that he say the following about any further cut : " when it be responsible , when it can be achieve without increase borrowing and when it can be deliver without compromise high - quality public service " . — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 851 - 52 . ] so what problem do the shadow Minister have with cut taxis on work people ? the problem we have with the Chancellor ' s announcement be that he have say that in the next Parliament he want to abolish NI contribution . [ interruption . ] the Prime Minister say that on the Saturday follow the Budget . the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have again and again , in email to party member and in interview with media outlet , make it clear that that be what they want to do . I appreciate that some Treasury Ministers have be flip - flop a bit when they have be out on their media round and have not entirely be able to toe the party line . but go into the general election , I would listen to what the Prime Minister and the Chancellor be say , and if they be say that they want to abolish NI and create a £ 46 billion black hole in the public finance , they should stand up here and defend that to the people of Great Britain today . the reckless way in which the Conservatives announce their unfunded tax plan and then refuse to give any more detail expose the risk of five more year of they in power . it be clear the Conservatives will happily gamble with the public finance and yet again leave work people be force to pay the price . as they have be unwilling to explain how their plan will be fund , we will today vote to force the Government to come clean on the impact of their £ 46 billion tax plan on the state of public finance . I be very interested in this and be listen carefully to what the hon . Gentleman be say , but I be struggle to understand whether he be for or against the propose cut in NI . it would be helpful if he would be clear on that . it sound as though he be say that the opposition do not support it , but if that be the case , why would they not have come through the Lobby with we in oppose it ? I be happy to provide clarification for the hon . Gentleman . we have have an extended debate about this today , where we have make it clear on several occasion that we support the Government ' s cut in NI , because we believe that the tax burden on work people be too high and we want to see it come down . what we do not support be an unfunded £ 46 billion tax plan that the Chancellor have commit the conservative party to . that be the subject of our new clause that we be debate now , and I look forward to his join we in vote for it in a few moment . my hon . friend be make an important point , not least because , to all intent and purpose , the Chancellor ' s ambition be to abolish NI altogether . that unfunded tax cut require a 6 % increase in income tax just for we to stand still , unless something be go to give . do national insurance qualifying year not count towards how much state pension someone be entitle to get ? so how do we recalculate one ' s entitlement to state pension if the qualifying year do not exist because NI do not exist ? I thank my hon . friend for that important intervention , set out just some of the problem create by this reckless plan that the Conservatives have put out into the public domain and be refuse to explain or withdraw . we know that if the Chancellor ' s proposal to merge national insurance and income tax be to be follow , it would push up income tax by 6 . 5 % , meaning pensioner would pay , on average , £ 800 more a year . my hon . friend also make important point about the impact of the plan on eligibility to the basic state pension . again , member on the Government Front Bench have not answer those question . they have nothing to say on any of those point , which be concern people across the country , when they respond early . we have table new clause 1 because it will force the Government to come clean about these issue . minister be refuse to stand at the Dispatch Box to explain how they will fund their £ 46 billion black hole or to withdraw their policy entirely . new clause 1 will force they to set that out . because they have be unwilling to explain how they will fund their plan , we will force they to come clean on its impact on public finance . not only be there concern about where the funding would come from , but in the Treasury Committee just now the Chancellor refuse to rule out increase income tax in order to fund the abolition of NI contribution . the House of Commons Library have say that merge nic and income tax would require an 8 % increase in the basic and high rate of income tax . what will that do for the long - term future of the UK economy ? I thank my hon . friend for bring we that update from the Treasury Committee about what the Chancellor have be say . again , we can see the Chancellor be reckless by talk about merge national insurance with income tax without have a second thought for what impact that would have on hard - press taxpayer , particularly pensioner . pensioner do not currently pay national insurance on their earning and would be hit by a tax increase as a result of national insurance and income tax be merge . that be another example of how reckless these plan be , and how reckless it be for Treasury Ministers to refuse to stand up and explain how their plan would be fund . the public deserve to know . if Ministers vote against our new clause or they refuse to come clean , then the british people will have it confirm , yet again , that the Conservatives can not be trust with the economy , public finance or the finance of household across our country . thank you for call I , Mr Evans — surely it be long overdue that it should be Sir Nigel , but we will go with Mr Evans for today . I stand to move new clause 2 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . hon . member will see that the effect of new clause 2 would be fairly short in its compass . it would compel the Treasury to report to this House its forecast of the change to the number of people who be set to pay national insurance contribution as a result of the threshold for payment remain frozen until 2028 , instead of increase in line with the consumer price index , which would be the case otherwise . the Chancellor and other Ministers have speak today about the pride the Government take in what they be do . in the interest of transparency , the Government should have no difficulty accept new clause 2 . I be sure it be merely an inadvertent omission that those measure be not part of the Bill already . it be apparent that comment make by the Chancellor , the Prime Minister and other about the idea of abolish national insurance altogether have start a debate , as we have see this afternoon . it be a substantial commitment to make — £ 46 billion — and we do not yet know where that money would come from . that be maybe not the novelty that it use to be , certainly before the mini - Budget . however , it offer we an opportunity to think a little bit about the nature of national insurance as a tax , because it be quite distinct in its composition and operation . in practical term , functionally , national insurance be more or less like any other tax , in as much as money be pay into the Exchequer and fill the coffer , and then be spend as the Government or government see fit — in relation to health , policing , transport , minister ' legal fee or whatever else it be go to be . as a matter of intent and purpose , however , national insurance be identifiably different from the other taxis we pay . More than any other levy , it be the symbol of our share obligation — what we owe each other as a society and as community in support throughout our life . the point of national insurance be that we pool and share resource geographically and generationally . we pay our stamp on each payslip , trust that , when the time come for we to retire , someone else will continue to pay taxis that will fund our pension . let we remember that the root of this tax be in Lloyd George ' s Budget , and that the introduction of national insurance come with the introduction of the pension . that be why we have the legacy of the link between national insurance and pension , which be point out by the hon . member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) in an intervention . that be significant . these be matter that must be clarify before we undertake a change of this sort . at the heart of any healthy liberal democratic society , there be the idea that we have last obligation to one another . we have obligation to those we know , to those we do not know , to generation that be old than we , and to those who be yet to be bear . we can be bind by policy with which we disagree , and sometimes we must pay taxis for thing that we dislike or that we feel we do not need . that be the system in which the national insurance contribution have a demonstrably significant and different impact than other taxis . it be part of the tapestry of government and public life in this country . this be perhaps just pull at a thread , but the Minister and , indeed , people in all part of the House would be well advise to consider exactly what they may be unravel by pull at this thread . full transparency from the Government on the effect of freeze national insurance contribution in the way that have be propose should be an important part of this debate as it proceed . thank you very much . can someone from the liberal Democrats inform the Chair who their teller will be , as their amendment have be select for a separate division ? as I mention early , the impact of policy and any change to policy will be subject to the usual public scrutiny , include from the OBR on cost . it be therefore not necessary to produce additional report . I will not play into the hand of the opposition today by comment far on their scaremongering . I refer the shadow Minister to the answer that I give early , which I think be quite clear . I be sorry that he be incapable of understand the difference between an ambition and a policy , but the rest of the House seem to understand it . hopefully , he will catch up at some point . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Yvonne Fovargue Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mary Glindon Tonia Antoniazzi Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Andrew Percy Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Joy Morrissey the Committee divide : Ayes 170 , Noes 292 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 2 - Review of effect of frozen threshold " the Treasury must lay before the House of Commons within three month of the passing of this Act a report which set out its forecast of the change to the number of people pay national insurance contribution as a result of the threshold for payment of national insurance remain freeze over the period 2023 / 24 to 2027 / 28 , rather than rise in line with CPI . " — ( Mr Carmichael . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Yvonne Fovargue Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mary Glindon Tonia Antoniazzi Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Andrew Percy Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson the Committee divide : Ayes 169 , Noes 293 . question accordingly negative . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . Bill , not amend in the Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . member who have participate throughout the Bill ' s passage today , and to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the other Deputy Speakers for skilfully guide we through the process . I also thank all the Clerks , all stakeholder and all the official for their work on bring the Bill to the Floor and deliver tax cut to the people of the United Kingdom . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . as I have make clear throughout the Bill ' s consideration , Labour support the national insurance reduction that it seek to deliver . I be disappointed , however , that conservative mp vote to block our new clause . since the Chancellor announce the Conservatives ' plan to abolish national insurance contribution last week , Ministers have refuse again and again — include today — to say how that will be fund or what impact it will have . we believe people deserve to know what impact the Conservatives ' £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan will have on pensioner and their pension , on public service and on the health of our economy . our new clause would have require the Government to come clean and be honest with the british public . instead , Ministers have decide to vote against we and stick to their reckless and irresponsible unfunded tax plan . it be still not clear how this reckless commitment to abolish national insurance will be fund or what impact it will have on pensioner , pension , public service , borrowing or the state of our economy . but what be clear than ever be that the Conservatives be the party of reckless , irresponsible , unfunded tax plan that threaten our economy , our public service and the finance of household across the country . only Labour will bring stability and the responsible approach our economy need and only a general election will give the british people the chance to vote for change . I call Scottish National party spokesperson Kirsty Blackman . we do not support this change . this cut disproportionately benefit those earn the most . we in the SNP recognise the value that the public sector provide . we believe it should be properly fund to deliver our vital public service , and we do not believe that they can cope with more cut on the back of 14 year of austerity and the trial of Brexit and the pandemic . we want excellent public service for all , and we be not scared to make that absolutely clear . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Andrew Percy Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Joy Morrissey Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill John McNally Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Steven Bonnar Gavin Newlands the House divide : Ayes 293 , Noes 41 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft North East Mayoral Combined Authority ( Establishment and Functions ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 February , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Trade Unions that the draft Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels : Fire and Rescue Services ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 8 February , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Andrew Percy Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Luke Pollard Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Tonia Antoniazzi Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 291 , Noes 147 . question accordingly agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Sea Fisheries that the draft Sea Fisheries ( International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 12 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . Petition Petition - Immigration health surcharge I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk in relation to the immigration health surcharge . I would like to put on the record my declaration of interest , as my partner pay the immigration health surcharge . she be not , however , one of the signatory to the petition . there be no doubt in my mind that migrant worker be a vital part of our community and our workforce . they contribute greatly through taxis and national insurance , and many would agree with the point that they be effectively pay twice for their healthcare . they have face a 400 % increase in the rate of the immigration health surcharge over the last five year . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that in this time of crisis in the cost of living , the spiral cost of the immigration health surcharge pay by migrant be alarming ; far that the immigration health surcharge now stand at £ 1035 per annum , represent a 400 % increase compare with five year ago ; far that when combine with the increase in visa and immigration fee , many migrant family be face poverty , debt and destitution as they try to bear these cost ; and note that migrant worker be a vital part of our community and our workforce , include in the UK ' s health and social care sector . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to review the immigration health surcharge , take account of the fact that migrant already pay into and contribute significantly to health and care service across the UK . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002925 ] presumption of Parental Involvement in Child Arrangements Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) I be grateful to have the chance to speak in the Chamber on the presumption of parental involvement in child arrangement . when I be elect , I make a promise to be an advocate for victim of domestic abuse . at that time , I have no idea that the court proceeding between my ex - husband and I would continue for another four year , restrict my ability to raise publicly the horror of the family court system for those who have be a victim of rape , abuse and coercive control , as I have . in a landmark ruling in 2021 , I waive my right to anonymity and the Court of Appeal rule that the finding of fact against my ex - husband , confirm the allegation I have make against he of repeat rape and abuse , should be make public . the Court , in its judgment , find that I have be subject to the vile abuse , and that Andrew Griffiths have use his position of power to cause the utmost physical and emotional distress against I . those who know I well will know that I be usually a very private person . the thought of allow reporter to write about what have happen to I — very private detail , many of which I have cover up for year — be a terrifying one , but after year of be bully and control by a seemingly powerful man , I know that I have to stand up and use my platform to help other . I commend my hon . friend for her strength , courage and tenacity in speak up on this important issue , draw on her personal experience . she be a great role model for we all . I thank my right hon . friend . despite the landmark ruling that I achieve , my time within the family court system be far from over . despite the Court confirm that my child ' s father be abusive and a rapist , it be decide that contact should continue through a contact centre and that I should pay for 50 % of the cost of that contact . I could not believe that anyone feel my child , whom I have be fight to protect , would benefit from further contact with such an abusive and violent man , and that I — someone who have be subject to that violent behaviour — should not only facilitate that contact but pay towards it . thankfully , after far costly and lengthy legal proceeding , a ruling be make to overturn that decision . hopefully that have set a precedent that a victim of rape should not have to subsidise the rapist ' s cost of contact . despite the public reporting of my case , I be not able to speak freely of my experience until the final decision be make . however , after a gruelling five year , a ruling be deliver last month that confirm that Andrew Griffiths , the former MP and Minister , should no long be allow contact with his child — my child . I have finally achieve a ruling after make the case that the man who have abuse I over a 10 - year period be not safe to have contact with our child . I be really thankful that those proceeding have now conclude and , although I be traumatise not just by the 10 year of abuse I experience at the hand of my ex - husband but by the follow five year in which he continue to use the legal system to abuse I , I will not hesitate to tell my story and to try to make the change that will help other woman protect their child . these be landmark ruling because , until now , other victim of domestic abuse , violence and rape have not be able to offer protection to their child in the same way or to talk about their family court experience . have live with the thought of the prospect for many year , I can only imagine what it feel like to hand your child over to someone who have cause you , and continue to cause you , so much harm . I stand in the Chamber today as a suppose winner , congratulate on succeed against my ex - husband , but quite frankly I stand here drain financially and emotionally . I be not sure this be what people believe win feel like , but I know what the alternative must feel like and I will do all I can to stand beside those fighting for their child ' s safety . I want to give they hope that this Government recognise the problem in the family court and be determined to help . I speak to the hon . Lady beforehand , and I thank she for use this platform to tell her personal story . it take real bravery to stand up and speak about an issue that not only mean something to she but that she have live through . she have show exceptional courage in do so , and we all admire she for it . I come to the crux of my intervention , which we discuss beforehand . in so many case , victim of domestic abuse be absolutely terrified about speak up . there must be more encouragement from our Ministers , our Government and our fellow mps to ensure that the trauma be not prolong and that woman feel support to speak up and , in do so , tell other in similar situation that they be not alone . I say to the hon . Lady , you can be sure that you be not alone . I thank my hon . friend , and I absolutely agree with his point . domestic abuse be something that happen behind closed door . if people do not speak out about it , perpetrator will know that it be go to stay behind close door . that be why I agree to the publication of my judgment , in the hope that it will encourage more people to speak out and that it will help future victim and survivor . I be proud of the work that the Government have do , and I be proud that my party introduce the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , which be an incredibly important piece of legislation . the Act provide much - need clarity that domestic abuse come in many form and can be financial , verbal and emotional , as well as physical and sexual . it also recognise that abuse can be a result of pattern over time . the definition also explicitly recognise child as victim if they witness that abuse . the Act allow for a Domestic Abuse Commissioner to be appoint to stand up for victim and survivor . I pay tribute to the work of the commissioner , Nicole Jacobs , and her team , who work tirelessly to stand up for victim and survivor ; to raise public awareness ; and to monitor the response of local authority , the justice system and other statutory agency , and hold they to account in tackle domestic abuse . I be grateful for the chance I have have to work with the commissioner and contribute to her report on achieve cultural change in the family court . beyond the Domestic Abuse Act , the Government have continue to listen and learn from the experience of domestic abuse victim . in May 2019 , the Government announce an expert panel to look at how the family court protect child and victim in child arrangement case relate to domestic abuse and other serious offence . the panel ' s final report , " assess risk of Harm to Children and Parents in private Law Children Cases " , be publish in June 2020 . it raise concern about " how the family court system recognise and respond to allegation of , and prove harm to child and victim parent in private law child proceeding . " it state : " submission highlight a feeling that abuse be systematically minimise , range from child ' s voice not be hear , allegation be ignore , dismiss or disbelieve , to inadequate assessment of risk , traumatic court process , perceive unsafe child arrangement , and abuser exercise continue control through repeat litigation and the threat of repeat litigation . " the report say that these issue be underpin by a number of theme , include a " pro - contact culture " . that report be release almost four year ago . let we ignore for a second the fact that at the heart of this , the report confirm that victim of domestic abuse be be far traumatise by the court process , and let we look instead at the potential harm to child . their voice be not be hear , there be inadequate assessment of risk and there be unsafe child arrangement . perhaps in his response , the Minister might consider how much harm to child have take place in the four year since those finding be release . the report echo many of the experience the woman who have contact I have share . it say that " respondent feel there be little difference in the order make between case that do and do not feature domestic abuse " and that the court " almost always order some form of contact , frequently unrestricted , and usually without require an alleged abuser to address their behaviour " . it also say : " respondent feel that order make by the court have enable the continue control of child and adult victim of domestic abuse by alleged abuser , as well as the continue abuse of victim and child . " it go on to say that respondent " raise concern " that PD12J , the practice direction that set out what the court should do in any case in which domestic abuse be allege or admit , " be not operate as intend and be be implement inconsistently " . regard the presumption of parental involvement specifically , many mother feel that the presumption " give the abusive parent power over the non - abusive parent and the child , and a legal weapon the abuser could use at will " . they also feel it put a misplaced emphasis on the child ' s right to a relationship with both parent , and the father ' s right to family life , above the child ' s welfare and right to be safe from abuse and its effect . the report say : " overall , the evidence receive by the panel suggest that the presumption be implement inconsistently and be rarely disapplied . to the extent that the court ' pro - contact culture operate as a barrier to address domestic abuse , it serve to reinforce that culture . " it recommend that : " a review of the presumption of parental involvement … be need urgently in order to address its detrimental effect . " an urgent review be need . it be urgent because of the risk of harm to child , yet almost four year on we be still wait to hear about that review . the Government have originally expect to complete the review by the summer of 2021 . I meet the then Justice Secretary in 2021 and offer my support to his team to help they make the positive change need . in early 2022 , I be advise that the review have be delay by covid - 19 , but I be reassure that good progress be be make in take the work forward . when I raise the matter in this House in early 2023 , I be advise that the response to the review would be publish " very soon — as soon as we can do so . " — [ Official Report , 21 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 121 . ] in mid - 2023 , in a further update from the Justice Secretary , I be advise that it have take long than expect but that the report would be publish later that year . in a response to a parliamentary question in November 2023 , the Minister advise that it would be publish in early 2024 . how many court hearing involve child at risk of abuse have take place over the year while we have be wait for the review ? a horrifying example of two child , who be murder by their father after it be rule that it be in their interest to maintain contact with he , be raise previously in the House . in respond to a question about that case , the Justice Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , explain that : " the review have to be carefully consider , because of the complexity of parental involvement " . — [ Official Report , 16 May 2023 ; Vol . 732 , c . 690 . ] that feel like we be prioritise the need of the abuser again . while we await the review , why do we not prioritise the safety of the child and change the presumption ? where there have be a history of harm , the onus should be on the abusive parent to prove that they should have the contact , not the other way around . imagine someone have the courage to escape a relationship , to keep themself and their child safe , and put their trust in our legal system to continue those protection , only to find that they be lock in a further battle with a court that prioritise the right of an abuser to see their child over the safety of the child itself . despite everything I have be through , I know that I be lucky . many would give anything to have receive the judgment I do . I be grateful to have have a fantastic legal team : Melanie Bridgen , my solicitor , and Charlotte Proudman , my barrister . Dr Proudman be an incredible advocate on behalf of survivor of domestic abuse and found the organisation right to Equality , which be also campaign for a change in this pro - contact culture . right to Equality state : " family law reinforce a cultural and legal norm of parental responsibility for both parent , even in case involve rape and murder by parent , often father . this approach fail to adequately consider the safety and well - being of survivor and their child , perpetuate an environment that can place they at risk . under statute , a married father can never have his parental responsibility remove even if he kill the child ' s mother or violently assault the child . " many case law example show how survivor ' plea for protective measure be disregarded and highlight the need for the Government ' s urgent attention to fix our statute book . research conduct by a team lead by the University of Manchester speak to 45 mother of 77 child , all of whom report experience abuse . perhaps the most alarming finding of that study be that 75 out of 77 child be force into contact with father they have report for abuse , even in case involve sex abuse conviction . this Government , which have do so much for victim of domestic abuse , need to fix the exist statutory and de facto presumption of child contact at all cost . I urge the Minister to bring forward the review without further delay , to bring about legislative change that create a safe environment for child and to support a presumption of no child contact in case where domestic abuse be a relevant factor . the Minister ' s review do not come quickly enough to help I , and I too be dangerously close to be let down by our legal system . through use every penny I could get my hand on , and every ounce of resilience I could muster to stand in court and repeatedly tell my story , I be able to achieve a landmark ruling . it should not be the exception that only my child have protection from a man find by a court to have commit multiple account of rape and abuse against the mother . that should be the standard . it should send a clear message to those who carry out act of abuse that it do not matter whether they be an MP or have any other public profile : if they be find by a court to have rape or abuse the parent of their child , they be no long entitle to assume that that child will benefit from contact with they . I ask the Minister today to reform that presumption urgently . contact should be earn ; it should not be give to abuser . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Burton ( Kate Kniveton ) on secure this important debate . I sincerely commend the bravery she have show by share her story and use her experience to support other in similar circumstance . I often find that the House be at its good when colleague from across the House use their own personal experience to help shape legislation and improve thing for those who follow they . I apologise if some of what I have to say will sound rather cold and clinical , but , sadly , the law be not always warm and friendly , as much as we would like it to be . I will come on to the presumption of parental involvement , but I wish to begin by say that the act of abuse perpetrate by the ex - partner of my hon . friend be clearly and totally abhorrent . sadly , the frequency and intensity of violence , psychological abuse , sexual assault , and other type of domestic abuse within household be the horrific reality for too many people in this country , and particularly — although not exclusively — for woman and girl . the Government , include myself and my noble Friend Lord Bellamy , be commit to take every possible action to stop this , and to allow victim of abuse and their child to live free of the fear and harm inflict by their abuser . when such case come to the family court , the Government be dedicate to ensure that the court can identify and safeguard both child and parent against such abuse . when the court make a decision that affect a child , the involvement of parent be often a factor . however , it be the welfare of the child that be the court ' s utmost priority in every case . that principle , of the paramountcy of the child ' s welfare , be what underpin the Children Act 1989 . the court do seek to protect the adult in a child ' s life from harm ; for case involve domestic abuse , the provision of this be also enshrine in our law and rule of court . for example , the landmark Domestic Abuse Act 2021 prevent cross - examination of victim by perpetrator and require rule of court to be make about special measure for victim , such as screen to prevent they from see the perpetrator in court . in family court , practice direction 12j , as my hon . friend mention , note that the court must be satisfied that any order do not expose either the child or parent to a risk of further harm . therefore , while the welfare of the child be absolutely paramount , the welfare of parent victim be an equally important consideration of the family court and of the Government . move on to the presumption of parental involvement itself , the Government be very mindful of the need to ensure that , where it be safe , a child should benefit from the involvement of both parent in their life , but I do stress that it be only where it be safe to do so . the aim of the introduction of the statutory presumption in 2014 be to codify decade of exist case law and international commitment , and to place in law a process whereby the potential risk pose by a parent be fully consider , and only subsequently be their involvement in a child ' s life consider . the presumption be therefore design to achieve two vitally important aim : to ensure that , when safe , child be able to maintain some form of relationship with both their parent , even after they separate ; and to ensure that parent who may subject their child or ex - partner to the dangerous and despicable behaviour inherent in domestic abuse be prevent from involvement in their child ' s life . in the example give by my hon . friend of the serious and horrific case involve sexual abuse , let I tell she that when the parent in these case present a risk of harm to their child , they should not be grant involvement in their life . my hon . friend have also raise the terrible circumstance in which one parent have murder the other . we have amend the Victims and Prisoners Bill , so that parent who kill a partner or ex - partner with whom they have child will have their parental responsibility suspend upon sentencing . we be carefully consider option for strengthen the safeguard and procedure already in place to ensure that the family court can properly protect child . ensure that the survivor of domestic abuse be fully protect by the family court remain a priority for this Government . in 2019 , the Ministry of Justice commission a review of how the risk of harm to child and parent be assess in private family law — most commonly know as the harm panel report , to which my hon . Friend refer . follow the recommendation of the panel , we commission a further review of how the presumption of parental involvement be be apply in the family court . I know that my hon . friend , like several other in this House , have express concern over the time take to complete the review . I can put on record that Ministers in the Department share that frustration of how long it have take to bring forward our response . as my hon . Friend say , the delay be , in part , due to covid make it difficult to conduct research , particularly in term of access physical court file , and the challenge in access court document that be in a useable format . however , I be delighted to be able to confirm that the review and the accompany Government response into the presumption of parental involvement will in fact be publish by late spring or early summer of this year . I hope that provide some reassurance that we at least have a slightly firm date come forward . again , I reassure my hon . friend that minister be equally frustrated . we will bring the response forward . I assure she that the Ministry of Justice be give full consideration to the literature review of the academic evidence , the session conduct with parent who have be through the family court , the individual case file analysis , the contribution from stakeholder , and the feedback from the advisory board , which be establish to ensure that we have draw upon its expertise in work with victim and child . the challenge of strike the right , careful balance between address the future risk to the child , and to the other parent , and the benefit of have two parent actively involve in the child ' s life be one that have occupy Parliament , the judiciary and wide society for decade . it be crucial that , in set out next step from the review , we consider the full range of reform at our disposal to manage the challenge . we must ensure that the understanding of the element of risk and the good interest of the child in these case be always clear , and that the balance of those element be strike correctly . let I reiterate a few thing that the Government have do to ensure that the child be at the centre , and that the family court system continue to reform and to be fit for purpose , ensure that parent , and especially child , be protect . last week , the Chancellor announce an additional £ 55 million for the family court . a key element of that funding package be the commitment to fund the roll - out of the pathfinder court approach , which provide a more investigative approach to private law proceeding , with increase support for party . the pilot engage domestic abuse agency early on in proceeding to ensure that both parent and child be receive the support and advice that they need . the approach also ensure that the need and voice of the child be central to proceeding . that be achieve through detailed investigation into each individual child ' s welfare and wish early on in each case . the pathfinder court be currently operate in Dorset and north Wales , and expand to Birmingham and south - east Wales in a matter of week . the additional funding will mean that many more family will benefit from the positive impact of the model , with the roll - out of the pathfinder model across England and Wales happen as quickly as possible . the additional funding will also result in the creation of a new authoritative online support and advice service for separate parent , and the piloting of free early legal advice for those consider court to resolve their issue . over the past 13 year , we have also significantly increase the funding for independent domestic violence adviser , know as idva , and independent sexual violence adviser , know as isva , to support victim go through the family court . we have bring 43 % more of those vital professional into post from 2009 - 2010 to 2023 , with the Ministry of Justice increase IDVA and ISVA spend by over four time what it be in 2009 - 2010 . since November 2023 , we have also increase our investment by £ 1 . 2 million over two year . rather than read out many more statistic , let I address one of the issue that my hon . Friend raise , which be the cost — the financial cost , let alone the mental cost . that be why we have be reform the access to legal aid for victim of domestic abuse . recently , we have change the threshold for income and capital ; introduce a new lone parent allowance ; create a mandatory disregard of inaccessible capital from the means assessment ; remove the cap on the value of capital asset that be not consider in the mean test assessment when they be dispute asset ; and extend the equity disregard to apply to those who be force to flee their home . that will prevent victim who may be on a low income from have to sell their home . I share the frustration of my hon . friend , and I have to say that her story and her campaigning have be incredibly move . I hope that this Government will be able to address her concern in the come month , when we finally publish our response to the report . those who have perpetrate abuse against their partner or ex - partner should absolutely feel the consequence of that action . our reform of the family court will continue to increase the support for survivor of domestic abuse and will aim to ensure that parent and child be protect against the abhorrent crime of domestic abuse . finally , I thank my hon . friend once again for secure this debate to examine the issue . I hope that we have go some way towards explain how seriously the Government consider they and how seriously we be commit to bring forward our response in the next few month . question put and agree to . House adjourn .