it be a pleasure to take part in this Easter Adjournment debate . I always find that these end - of - term debate really enlighten I about fellow member of the House , their constituency and the issue that be important to their constituent . before I talk about something close to my own constituency and heart , I associate myself with the contribution of the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) and the thank that she give to Surrey police . my own borough team in Guildford have be fantastic , just as hers have be , in support our town centre by deal with antisocial behaviour . I note the absolutely crack contribution and egg - cellent Easter pun from the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) . I will stop there with the Easter pun and move on to my constituency . I will use my time to highlight an issue in my constituency that have both national and local significance . I hope that action on the issue will not just resolve it in Guildford , but help to drive long - term change in the way we support charity and business during multi - year infrastructure project . many member will be aware of the extensive redevelopment work take place at junction 10 of the M25 , near the Royal Horticultural Society garden at Wisley . the redevelopment work start in November 2022 and be due to finish in summer 2025 , but sadly it have be confirm recently that that will not be the case ; they will finish in approximately spring 2026 . that be four year of disruption for local resident and business . ultimately , the project should improve the junction , but — it be a very big " but " — there have be serious consequence for RHS Wisley and our much - love local caf é , Ockham Bites , alongside frustration and disruption for local resident in village around the junction and everyone who have have to travel through it . while the two place be very different in scale , both have see a significant loss . Ockham Bites be lose £ 600 a day , and RHS Wisley predict that by the end of the project it will have lose £ 11 million . these financial loss be highlight in the early day of the project but dismiss on the basis that current legislation compensate only on the value of property , not for loss of business . for RHS Wisley , the loss have have far - reach consequence . plan for new arboretum have be delay , fund for scientific research have be reduce and community outreach programme have be scale back . the impact go beyond my constituency and the garden itself through to the community around Guildford and other RHS site across the country . they be be force to consider cut to training opportunity , with a project 10 % reduction in workplace student horticulturalist position over the next two year . I be sure that member of the House will be very sad to hear all those thing about RHS Wisley . I know that resident in my constituency , as well as people across the country , feel strongly about this issue . a petition that be currently live have 92 , 000 signature , and that number keep increase . I pause to thank my colleague Baroness Benjamin , who have be highlight this matter in the other place , for the answer she have gain from member of the House of Lords on the issue surround the problem at RHS Wisley . will the hon . member for Wellingborough and Rushden ( Gen Kitchen ) encourage the Transport Secretary to respond to my request to meet I and representative of RHS Wisley ? return to Ockham Bites and its fantastic cake and tea , it have suffer big financial loss for a small business . there have also be problem with water , and all those thing combine have force the owner to make serious personal and professional adjustment , include relocate their home and deal with heighten stress level . these two business ' story be of very different scale , but they highlight a serious flaw in current legislation . we should not be leave small business , charity and other organisation struggle financially and potentially fail due to multi - year infrastructure project . not only be those organisation the lifeblood of our community ; they be fundamental to our economic success . I hope that Ministers will agree to meet I and work to find a way to support those business , and commit to review the legislation to ensure that their story be not repeat and that future multi - year infrastructure project be deliver without leave key part of our local economy and community behind . I want to close on a positive note in this afternoon ' s fantastic debate by give a cheeky little encouragement to everyone in the Chamber , if they have not yet experience RHS Wisley or their local RHS garden , to please go and enjoy they during the Easter recess . I also echo my hon . friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) in encourage member and the public , when enjoy the great outdoors , to be fire safe . finally , I hope that all member of this House and all the staff , security and police have a restorative Easter , and I thank the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for lead the debate .