I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for allow I to make my first contribution to the House in this important debate . in my previous role I be proud to play my part in change the Labour party , so it be apt that I should give my maiden speech as we discuss change and modernise this House . I associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend and other member and congratulate all those who have make their maiden speech , both today and in the past few day . it be a privilege to stand here as the newly elect Member of Parliament for Cardiff West . it be not an exaggeration to say that I stand in the shadow of some impressive individual when it come to my predecessor . I be the fifth individual since world war two to have the honour of represent Cardiff West ; of my four predecessor , three stand under the Labour banner and go on to forge formidable career here in Westminster . one serve as Speaker of this House . Rhodri Morgan , my predecessor but one , serve in this House for nearly 14 year before begin his next act as First Minister of Wales , serve in that role for over nine year . Rhodri be a political giant , and very much love and miss by my constituent . as for my immediate predecessor , Kevin Brennan , as well as serve in a number of ministerial role in the last Labour Government , his single big impact in this House might be his membership of the parliamentary rock band MP4 . so we have a Speaker , a First Minister and a lead guitarist — for I , the pressure really be on . in all seriousness , Kevin serve Cardiff West with distinction for 23 year , and he be a quality act to follow . that quality be clearly spot by the House when Kevin give his maiden speech , on 20 June 2001 . after finish it , Peter Bottomley , the last Parliament ' s Father of the House , comment that Kevin " will be one of the star of the Parliament . he have the sort of speak talent that probably guarantee his join the Whips Office and be shut up for a bit . " — [ Official Report , 20 June 2001 ; Vol . 370 , c . 129 . ] Mr Bottomley be prescient because , follow the 2005 general election , Kevin be indeed appoint an Assistant Government Whip . I want to place on the record my thank to Kevin and his wife Amy for their generosity , advice and support . have listen to a number of maiden speech over the past few day of debate , I believe it have become a tradition to refer to one ' s constituency as the most beautiful in all the land . as this place be steep in tradition , with perhaps a sprinkling of modernisation to come , I would not want to disappoint , so I can confirm that Cardiff West be indeed the most beautiful — or , as we say in Welsh , prydferth or hardd . until this election , Cardiff West exist entirely within the boundary of the city of Cardiff , but follow the most recent set of boundary change , the ward of Pontyclun in Rhondda Cynon Taf now form part of it . Cardiff West ' s gain be Pontypridd ' s loss , as Pontyclun be a vibrant community , full of good people and a thriving high street that we must strive to maintain . on that note , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) for her work represent Pontyclun in the last Parliament . move east , there a diverse , prydferth and hardd constituency . in one corner be Llandaff , a city within a city that house the beautiful Llandaff cathedral , one of two cathedral in Cardiff . in St Fagans , we find the St Fagans National Museum of History , one of Europe ' s pre - eminent open - air museum . in Canton there be a thriving cultural scene , include chapter art centre and the Corp . Cardiff West also regularly punch above its weight when it come to sport . it be home to Glamorgan cricket , Sophia garden , the athletic stadium at Cardiff international sport stadium and Cardiff City stadium , the home of Cardiff City football club and the Welsh national team . Cardiff West also house Riverside , Pontcanna , Fairwater and Pentrebane , Pentyrch , Radyr and Morganstown , Gwaelod - y - Garth , Ely and Caerau , to name but a few . each area be define by its own unique character , but the common thread that run through they be a proud community , replete with family , local activist , sport club , volunteer and faith leader , all commit to serve the community they call home . that become clear to I during the election campaign . as their newly elect Member of Parliament , I will work with anyone who genuinely seek to support Cardiff West . in the past few day , the Labour Government have set out their plan to deliver on the commitment we make to the british people at the last election . throughout that election campaign I meet countless constituent who demand change , but not just for change ' s sake . they want change with a purpose : change that would improve their life by make work pay , by deliver a new deal for work people , by rebuild their broken public service , by make their street safe , by offer a more inclusive and tolerant discourse , and by make an offer of a future for our country that be more positive , more hopeful and more honest . of course , for we to deliver that change we must embody that change , and we need only look around the Chamber to see that . in this Parliament , 263 woman be elect , represent a record high of just over 40 % . this be also the most diverse Parliament by race , and this Parliament include the large cohort of LGBT + member of any Parliament in the world . progress do not always move in a straight line , but if one look around this Chamber and consider the tenor of maiden speech we have hear in these last few day of debate , there be indeed reason for hope . at the outset of this new Parliament , that deserve special mention ; while we can disagree in politic , we should always strive to do so with decency , honesty and respect . do so be not a sign of weakness , but of confidence in ourselves . be elect have be both thrill and humble in equal measure ; I be sure that many of my colleague across both side of the House have experience not dissimilar thought and feeling . however , I be not so blind by the excitement of be elect to this great place to forget that this be not about I . it be about what I can and will do to repay the trust of my constituent and to fight for the cause that matter to they — cause such as defend our art and culture , particularly the cut that threaten the existence of the Welsh National Opera ; support our Welsh and Westminster government to cut the level of child poverty , recruit the new teacher we need and cut NHS waiting time ; unlock our green energy potential to deliver cheap and green energy ; and make work pay by deliver on that new deal for work people . ultimately , of course , it be not just about what we each say ; it be about what we do . for so long as I be here , I will work hard for a strong and fair Cardiff West . finally , I want to thank those people but for whom I would not be here give this maiden speech . the first thank go to my family : my Mum , my Dad and my sister . my family have inspire my value of public service and have make I a well person . the other thank go to my husband , who be up in the Gallery with my sister . we celebrate our six - year wedding anniversary during the final day of the campaign , but we actually meet more than 12 year ago at a time when I be still struggle to acknowledge , let alone accept , that I be gay . through all that , he have the love and patience to support I in accept who I be and to be honest about that . I truly would not be here without his love , support and friendship . as a proud welshman and a proud gay man , I be excited to play my part in the Government ' s programme of national renewal . in so do , I will endeavour to represent Cardiff West to the very good of my ability . may I offer you my congratulation , Madam Deputy Speaker , and also thank you for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech and , in particular , to make it during this fundamentally important debate , which will ensure that we be not just a Government of service but a House of service . in my speech I will mention many people who have do precisely that — serve other . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , and to hear such excellent maiden speech from member on both side of the House . it be an honour to serve the community where I be bear , raise my family , and work in local secondary school as a science teacher and then a deputy headteacher . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Jane Stevenson and — give parliamentary boundary change — Eddie Hughes as well . I thank they for their faithful service to our community . I also wish to honour the late Ian Brookfield , former leader of Wolverhampton city council , who sadly pass away at the age of 57 after a short illness . Ian fill any room , and be a political giant . his legacy of celebrate the diversity of our city and fight for the vulnerable will not be forget . take a mere glance at the roll call of previous mp who have serve Wolverhampton North East , and you soon realise that there be big shoe to fill . Jennie Lee , who when first elect be too young to vote , be instrumental in establish the Open University . Ken Purchase , who serve for 18 year , be a deeply respected constituency MP . Ken play a pivotal role in the campaign to save our beloved Wolverhampton Wanderers football club . lose our club would have be devastating for the local community , not only in economic term but in term of our identity , as a city that truly love our football club . a return Member , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , be a Minister in the last Labour Government , and I know that she will serve tirelessly in this Government . the long and rich history of my constituency be a fascinating story of how a small village establish in 985 ad grow into the wonderful , diverse city it be today . it be a history carve out of war , plague , and economic boom and bust ; a story of determined perseverance , progress and community cohesion . these value be a testament to what make any place great : its people . the dawn of the industrial revolution bring factory and canal to Wolverhampton and Willenhall . we be ideally locate to become one of the major region involve in coal and metal production , especially the production of lock , key and enamelware . we see growth in manufacturing , with company such as Guy Motors , Goodyears , and the Chubb and Yale lock maker . we be at the heart of the " workshop of the world " . if it be mechanical , we build it . my journey to stand here today start with my parent migrate from Fiji as young adult . I be bear and raise on a council estate , Ashmore Park , watch my father work all hour in demand job . time be tough back then , but they should not be that tough today . I encounter such challenge directly when I be honour to serve as mayoress of Wolverhampton as we emerge from covid restriction . I meet extraordinary community group and many remarkable people , include the first official freewoman of the city , Lisa Potts . Lisa protect her student at a primary school nursery from be attack by an armed intruder . selflessly , she place herself between young student and the attacker , suffer horrific , life - change injury in the process . a George Medal recipient , Lisa remain in close contact with many of the student almost 30 year after that horrific day . with her humility , courage and compassion , she be the very definition of a hero . Wolverhampton and Willenhall take great pride in show our gratitude to those serve in the british armed force , and to veteran . we have extraordinary veteran community group and volunteer , such as Anne Partridge , a regimental sergeant - major , from the Staffordshire Regiment Association , a true leader know for get thing do . I be privileged to be part of the unveiling of the magnificent Saragarhi monument , commemorate the brave last stand of 21 Sikh soldier from the british 36th Sikhs regiment and one muslim cook who valiantly fight for the British Army . unity be strength , and we see a wonderful example of that when the Guru Nanak gurdwara and St Thomas ' church work together for Wednesfield in Bloom ; they have amass several gold award . I see at first hand the struggle that family face every day in my former role as a deputy headteacher . I could not believe the normalisation of hardship . school have become daily support hub for family who be desperate in so many way , face challenge that should be consign to the dustbin of history . it be these experience that have inspire I to stand and fight for well . I want every child to be able to take a seat at any table , regardless of their background . this Labour Government will break down barrier to opportunity , with free breakfast club in all primary school , a reform secondary curriculum that value creative subject , a focus on the skill need by the future workforce , and a child ' s wellbee Bill , so that child be safe , healthy , happy and treat fairly . consider the high level of deprivation in the school where I work , I can not speak highly enough of the dedicated staff , incredible student and supportive parent . I have a message for my student : I miss you , and I be proud of you . remember to find what you love , and go for it with everything you have . finally , my humble thank to the electorate of Wolverhampton North East , who put their trust in I . to those who do not vote for I , please know that I be here to serve you as well . the damage do will not be fix overnight , but the work have start . I will serve all constituent to bring you the change you deserve . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your election and welcome you to the Chair , although it feel a bit weird to welcome anyone here , give that I have be here for about two minute . I follow on from the excellent contribution make by my hon . friend the member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , and for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) among other . I praise in particular my hon . friend for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh , both because he give an excellent speech and because his mum be one of my constituent . as I start this new job , I have be think a lot about my family ; I be do so while prepare my remark today . I be think in particular of my grandpa , who be a coalminer in the coalfield of Lanarkshire , just outside Glasgow . when I be a wee boy , he would tell I of the condition that he work in : " darkness , " he say , " so black that you could hold your hand right in front of your eye and still not be able to see it . " in that darkness , he would toil away , unable to imagine his own future , let alone that of his grandwean , as he would say . all the while he toil , he be inhale fume so toxic that later in life he would have lung cancer , and live the rest of his life with just one lung . my dad , a welder , be here today — off during the Glasgow fair — along with my mum , who run her own business , to watch I from the Gallery . my career so far have be very different from that of my parent and grandparent . for a start , they have a proper job , whereas I be now do this for a living , but it have be different for two relate reason . the first be the Labour party — both in the sense that it have help to provide I with a new job , and in the protection that it have deliver for work people . health and safety legislation , deliver by Labour and build by the trade union movement , have end the kind of condition that my grandparent work in . the second reason my career have be different be technology . I suspect that today in Britain there be more bitcoin miner than coalminer , and that be ultimately a good thing . Coalmining be difficult , hard , laborious work . as a kid I spend many long hour in front of my computer and , while much of that be spend play FIFA against my wee brother Mark , some of it be more productive , because I teach myself to code . I watch YouTube video and over week , month and year I learn how to build software . I develop iPhone app that be use around the world , mean that code write on my laptop in Glasgow could be push out to device around the world in second and that this 19 - year - old kid in his childhood bedroom could run an app servicing people from Los Angeles to Dubai . if it can do that , technology can reform our public service too . technology might even help to reform this House , as we be debate today . I hope and know that high - growth , innovative business in my home city of Glasgow will be a key part of that . much have be say and write about Glasgow over the year , but one thing stick with I in particular . Anthony Bourdain be not a man know for his parliamentary language , so let we just say that he describe Glasgow as the most unpretentious place on earth — an " antidote " to the world , in his word , " so unapologetically work class and attitude - free " . I think he be right because , of all the thing I love about Glasgow , it be our people and our humour that I enjoy most . if someone ever get a wee bit too big for their boot , return home to Glasgow will soon put an end to that — something I be sure will be increasingly useful the long I spend in this place . unlike many Glaswegians , my admiration even extend to some of Glasgow ' s politician . it be customary in speech such as this to praise our predecessor , but I know that for some that will be do through slightly gritted tooth at the end of a long and bitter - fought election campaign . in my case , I talk about my predecessor with genuine warmth and admiration . Stewart McDonald serve the people of Glasgow South diligently and build an enviable reputation in this place . he be particularly respect for his long - stand support for the people of Ukraine , something that see he award the ukrainian order of merit . if I leave this place have do half as much as he do for people around the world fight for democracy , I will leave a happy man . before Stewart , there be labour predecessor . there be Tom Harris , who have be personally kind to I ; John Maxton , now Lord Maxton , whose son teach I modern study in high school , believe it or not — although I will leave it up to other to decide whether he do a good or bad job of that — and of course Teddy Taylor , who be still remember fondly by many of my constituent . I would also like to mention two other member of this House who have a big impact on my life , both from Glasgow . the former Member for East Kilbride , Adam Ingram , grow up in the east end of Glasgow and be one of the first people I ever speak to in the Labour party . his advice and wise counsel have be a constant source of support to I over the year , and I be incredibly grateful . the other be a southsider , my friend and the former Member for Glasgow Central , Anas Sarwar . I have the great privilege of serve as the director of Anas ' s successful leadership campaign to become leader of Scottish Labour . three and a half year ago , as we sit begin that campaign , it be hard to imagine what the future might hold , but even in our most optimistic of moment , I do not think we would have predict this . I stand here as one of 37 Scottish Labour mps . have praise three Glaswegians , I will do something unusual for a Glasgow MP and praise someone from Edinburgh . my right hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) have be a friend of mine for many year , and he deserve enormous credit for his long and lonely shift as the sole Scottish Labour MP , and for be someone who recognise that the Labour party have to change if it be to earn people ' s trust once again . it give I enormous pleasure and pride to see he in his rightful place as the Secretary of State for Scotland . that brief interlude aside , we return to Scotland ' s real capital city . I be privileged to represent Glasgow ' s southside , a place that have have something of a renaissance in recent year , boast the trendy tenement of Shawlands , the tree - line avenue of Newlands and the beautiful conservation village of Carmunnock , among other . my constituency contain many of Glasgow ' s beautiful park , of which Linn Park , Queen ' s Park and Pollok Country Park be just a few . in the latter , hon . member will find the Burrell collection , which be award the Art Fund ' s museum of the year award after its reopening last year . like many part of the city , however , we be not without difficulty . Castlemilk be an area with enormous spirit and the kind people anyone will ever meet , but it also remain an area with challenge . even today , the simple act of get a supermarket in Castlemilk have prove difficult , something I hope to change as local MP . what be true of all my constituency be that it be an outward - look , diverse and welcome place . the Scots - asian community in particular have contribute enormously to Glasgow ' s character , and I be very proud to represent they here in Parliament . immigration have make my constituency rich , and it make our country rich , too . the southside of Glasgow be also a passionately pro - european place . although Brexit be settle in the previous Parliament , I intend to support the Government ' s move to repair our relationship with Europe . my first duty be to my constituency and my country — be the Member of Parliament for Glasgow South be the only job that I will do , so long as the people of Glasgow South wish for I to continue — but I also feel a sense of responsibility towards the many million of people at home and around the world who do not have a voice ; the people toil away in darkness , just as my grandpa do all those year ago . I hope that none of we in this House forget the million — indeed , billion — of people around the world who be not as lucky as we , include those face persecution or war , those without access to clean water or a good education , and those bind by modern slavery . I be one of the lucky few to serve in this place , but I will never forget the people who put I here and the people who do not have a voice . deliver for they will be how I judge my success . it be an absolute honour to follow the hon . member for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) . he speak passionately about his constituency , and his love for his constituent be clear for all to hear . it be also an honour to follow maiden speech from the hon . member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) , for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) , for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) , for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , for Wolverhampton North East ( Sureena Brackenridge ) and for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) . each be , in their own way , an act to follow . I thank the people of Hazel Grove constituency for place their trust in I . that trust be a profound responsibility , and I be committed to repay it through hard work , integrity and service to my community . I acknowledge the work of my predecessor William Wragg , who serve in Parliament from 2015 until he stand down at the last election . he stand up to those in power when he feel that it be need , and he speak openly about poor mental health in a way that I be sure will have help to break down stigma . on behalf of all resident of Hazel Grove , I wish he all the good for the future . I accept that I may be a little biased , but Hazel Grove be quite clearly the fine constituency in the land . it range from central Stockport out to the edge of the Peak district , take in the community of Bredbury , Bosden Farm , Compstall , Great Moor , Hawk Green , Heaviley , High Lane , Little Moor , Marple , Marple Bridge , Mellor , Mill Brow , Norbury , Offerton , Romiley , Strines , Woodley , and some , but not all , of Hazel Grove itself . whether the peaceful haven of our green space or the proud reminder of our industrial heritage , Hazel Grove have it all . we have the Peak forest , the Macclesfield canal , which have one of the steep lock flight in the country , and our beautiful river : the Goyt , the Mersey and the Tame . it be no wonder so many people want to call our area home . our river would be even more beautiful if the water company be not pump quite so much sewage into they . we very much look forward to the Government implement their plan to clean up that scandal . however , it be the people who really make our community . start Point social enterprise in Woodley be tackle digital exclusion by give some of my more mature constituent the confidence to get online , the Cherry Tree Project in Romiley empower young people to live their good life , and NK Theatre Arts work with child and adult of all ability across the borough , use creativity and the perform art to transform life . local people have many of the answer that we seek on how to fix the problem we face as a country . my job , and the job of this House , be to empower they , not tell they what be good for they . I be a liberal and a liberal Democrat . we exist to build and safeguard a fair , free and open society in which we balance the fundamental value of liberty , equality and community , and in which no one shall be enslave by poverty , ignorance or conformity . I join the Lib Dems and get involve in politic because shout at the television be not bring about the change that we need . my constituent have be very clear with I that their top priority be our local health service . they should not have a hospital that be literally fall down , they should not have to wait month or year for treatment , and they should not have to struggle to care for their love one . the phenomenal staff at Stepping Hill hospital should not have to wade through flood corridor to get to their patient because yet another pipe have burst , as it do last weekend . Stepping Hill hospital must get the repair it need , and we need a new , additional hospital in the town centre so that local people can get the health and social care service they deserve . I will not rest until they do . I could not possibly make my first speech in this House without mention the last Liberal Democrat to represent my community , Andrew Stunell . Andrew be the MP for Hazel Grove from 1997 to 2015 , and he be that rare kind of politician who give politic a good name . he be an MP who set the standard to which all who come after he be rightly hold — he be interested in do something , not just be something . he put his constituent first and bring about change in the law , both as a Minister and as a Back Bencher . Andrew make thing well for the whole country : as a Minister , he deliver the Localism Act 2011 , but as a Back Bencher he come top of the private Member ' s Bill ballot in 2003 , result in the sustainable and secure Buildings Bill become an Act of Parliament in 2004 . More than all that , he be one of the warm , kind people I have ever meet . he be the kind of person you want on your team : hard - work , honest and kind . he help I work out what it be to make a difference in public life . the people of Hazel Grove , the whole Lib Dem family , and I will miss he and his guidance hugely . I be the first woman to be elect as the MP for Hazel Grove , and I take that responsibility really seriously . I be especially delighted to be a Member of the large group of Liberal Democrats ever elect to this House : there be 73 of we , if we include the right honourable Jennie . I go to a comprehensive school , and be the first member of my family to go to university . before decide that shout at the telly be not bring about the change that I want to see in the world and that stand for elect office be the way to be part of that change , I work in a business as a director of client relation — my client be big pension fund , charity and foundation . I be then the chief exec of a charity , educate woman and girl in the develop world . for the past eight year , I have also be lucky enough to represent some of my constituent as an elect councillor for Bredbury Green and Romiley on Stockport council , a role I have love . I be one of a rather large number of colleague who come to this House know at first hand the value of local government , and the desperate need for it to be fund properly . I turn to the substance of today ' s debate , which be standard and modernisation . the main thrust of what we have hear from the Government and the Leader of the House — that any further role should benefit an MP ' s constituent — be absolutely right . in the short term , we should of course stop mp from take on role as pay parliamentary adviser , strategist or consultant . in the long term , daylight be often the good disinfectant , so I ask the Leader of the House to consider whether publish any employment contract for outside arrangement — with suitable redaction — and the transparency that would bring would allow constituent to judge for themselves whether they be get value for money from their MP . as a new MP , I be strike and more than a little bemused by some of the wonderful convention and habit of this House . take it as read that colleague be honourable be a good thing , and refer to one another as the Members for our constituency act as a powerful reminder of who send we here , but I be also strike by how much modernisation be need . we on the Lib Dem Benches look forward to support the government when we agree , but I would expect we to urge , persuade , and on occasion push the Government to go far and fast to make we the most effective we can be , because our constituent deserve no less . with so many newly elect colleague , we have a crack opportunity to change this place for the well . it could be so much more efficient and so much more effective . let we do that with fresh eye before we be all too institutionalised and think that some of this stuff be normal . however , that be also go to take some courage from the new Government , because make process and procedure less obscure so that more people understand they and make this place more efficient will mean that mp have more power and the Government slightly less of it . government — especially government with new large majority , I be guess — will probably grow rather fond of that power quite quickly , so let we get crack . alongside modernise this place , we should of course reform our politic and our democracy more fundamentally . the House of Lords should obviously be elect , 16 and 17 - year - old should be able to vote , and we must replace the antiquated and deeply unfair first - past - the - post system with a fair , proportionate voting system . I look forward to make the case for these change during my time here . this election be the fourth time I have stand to represent the people of Hazel Grove as the Lib Dem candidate , and it probably take a certain sort of stubbornness , resilience and determination to do that . it most certainly take the support of my family , and especially of my partner , Ed . I be so grateful to he . our mischievous rescue dog Bonnie have not quite make up her mind yet about what she think about I work away from home rather more , but I hope to be able to convince she that win be well than lose , as it undoubtedly be . win enable we to get stuff do , and there be a lot to do . it be the honour of my life to be elect to represent my phenomenal community , the people of Hazel Grove constituency . they will be at the heart of everything I do here , and I hope I do they proud . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the many maiden speech of new Members I have hear today , include the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) for her fine speech . hon . member have speak with affection and commitment about their home constituency . each of they rightly place their own area above all other , and that be understandable , but I stand before you as the Member for the old continuous constituency to send a member to this House . for almost 1 , 000 year , man and woman have stand , as I stand today , proud to proclaim themselves the Member for Lincoln . I walk in the footstep of a series of strong Labour woman . Lincoln ' s first female Member of Parliament be a titan of our movement , Margaret Beckett . Grafton House , Lincoln ' s labour club , be found and sustain by the much - miss Leo . Margaret be succeed by two other formidable labour woman , Gillian Merron and Karen Lee , both of whom continue to serve our movement in local and national Government . I be honour to succeed they . I would like to pay tribute , too , to my immediate predecessor , Karl McCartney , who also love the city . he dedicate himself particularly to improve local transport provision . he press forward with relief road for the city , and I now take up that cause too . Lincoln be a beautiful , historic , young and dynamic city , but we be far from other major urban centre and , indeed , from any of my hon . friend on these Benches . we need a public transport network that reflect that relative geographical isolation , and I hope to work with colleague across the House to make sure that Lincoln and Lincolnshire get the transport network they need . right hon . and hon . member may not yet be sick of hear I talk about the urgent necessity to upgrade the Lincoln to Newark line , one of the slow in the country , but I assure they that they will be . all of we elect to serve our community will of course be seek the support that they deserve , as I also intend to in relation to the cost of living , healthcare and housing , but I also want to pause to pay tribute to the service my city have do for this country . that service snake back even far than my predecessor . over 1 , 000 year ago , in 1217 , England seem almost lose . french force loyal to Prince Louis have take most of England , and even the majority of Lincoln herself . it be only our castle , lead by a woman in her mid - sixty , Nicola de la Haye , the constable of Lincoln castle , who survive month of bitter siege warfare , that finally repel the invader at the battle of Lincoln , secure the city and save England . hundred of year later , Lincoln and her worker again spring to the defence of this country . in the chaos of the first world war , face mechanised industrial - scale warfare of the most horrifying kind , Lincoln invent the tank . we produce one in 14 of all Royal Air Force plane at Ruston , and the work people of Lincoln deliver to this country the equipment and people need to prevail against the odd . on these Benches , and in this movement , we never forget that . Lincoln ' s connection with the RAF have never since dim , and less than a decade later young man , include my grandfather , train to fly at the RAF station surround our city . to this day we be proud to continue to host RAF Waddington , one of the most important RAF basis . at this moment RAF Waddington and its brave man and woman protect this country and this House , as do Sobraon barrack in uphill Lincoln . I be proud of their service , and I will be a champion for they and their family for as long as I be in this place . as for so many of my constituent , public service take I far from home , and I be surprised and honour to be ask to return to the Foreign Office shortly after my election to this place . I know that my constituent expect I to do my duty there , as they do at Waddington and across the world . it be an honour to join the Government , but before I speak from the front Benches on Government business , I wish to send a message to my constituent : I be first and foremost the Member for Lincoln — for the city and Bracebridge , Waddington and Skellingthorpe ; for the school and two university ; for the barrack and the airbase ; for the hospital , cathedral and castle ; for our copy of Magna Carta ; for the independent shop of the bail ; for Sincil Bank and the park of Boultham and Hartsholme ; and for the Gillies , the Ermine , Birchwood and Steep Hill . this be the honour of my life , and our city on a hill will be my first and last priority for as long as you send I here . it be an honour to rise to make my first formal contribution as a Member of this House , and I start by congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker , and on take your seat in the Chair . I also start with a slight admission of honesty . since arrive here , I have be nervous and anxious about make my maiden speech — we might even say that I delay make my maiden speech for fear that my new colleague be superb orator who would go on to make excellent speech . I be happy to admit that that fear come to pass : there have be some superb speech over the past couple of day . even today , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) and for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) , and the hon . member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) , for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , and of course my neighbour , the hon . member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) , whose great speech do justice to that town . I thank he for his kind word . he be no long here , so I will stop the nicety there . I be in the fortunate position of have be send to this place to represent a constituency and a people that have play a huge role in my life . my grandfather grow up in east London before move to Essex to raise a family . it be in the 1980 , after retirement and with my grandmother Mary , that he make that all - too - familiar trip up the A12 to settle just 20 minute outside Ipswich . my early and happy childhood memory be spend fall in love with a country and a countryside that I still call home today , and a county and a people I be now humble to represent in this place . shock horror , Madam Deputy Speaker : I think Central Suffolk and North Ipswich be bless with some of the most beautiful countryside in England , but it be the history of the area that make it unique . the Anglo - Saxon King Raedwald be one of the rich and most powerful of his era . consequently , Suffolk have become a treasure trove for archaeologist for nearly a century . my neighbour the hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) can boast of Sutton Hoo , but on my far - eastern border , just last year a 1 , 400 - year - old pre - christian temple be discover . expert can trace back human activity in the area almost 6 , 000 year . I be fortunate to have the beautiful market town of Framlingham in my patch . it be home to Framlingham castle , a former seat of the famous Howard family , and St Michael ' s church , which contain the tomb of Tudor royalty and nobility , and which I love to take my two child to see . I also have Helmingham hall in my constituency , which have unbelievably host both Queen Elizabeth I and Queen Elizabeth II . it be unsurprising , give our ancient , lush and beautiful landscape , that we have a rich history of produce great artist who be inspire by those surrounding . Thomas Gainsborough , John Constable , Benjamin Britten and even Brian Eno and Ed Sheeran , to name a few , be all product of our wonderful county in some way or another . I be afraid to say that this child of Suffolk be not bless with the same artistic talent . the other great contribution that I have always feel that Suffolk make to our country be in food and drink . I have be tell by my wife that it be certainly a domain in which I have more expertise and experience . central Suffolk and North Ipswich be home to Aspall cider , manufacture for almost 300 year from apple tree in the ground of Aspall hall . it be now one of the most recognisable brand in the global drink market , export product to customer around the world . it be a great example of global success by a home - grow british business . we be great exporter of not only cider but sausage , spud , chocolate and condiment . it be not uncommon to find Suffolk produce in shop across the country . it be for that reason that I have in the past , and will now in this place , support initiative like that of my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) that give consumer in this country the opportunity to buy produce from producer in this country . the Suffolk farming and agricultural community be such an important part of our local society , and they be also emblematic of our local culture and identity , with their no - nonsense attitude to hard work , love for family and community , complete and utter ambivalence to the weather , and deep affection for our natural environment . I be sure that all member have their bias , but I be of the firm belief that the people of Central Suffolk and North Ipswich be the fine our country have to offer . while I hope to be a voice primarily for the people of Suffolk and Ipswich , I hope to use my time in this place to speak up for another cause . in a previous life , before enter this place , I work under my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) at the Centre for Social Justice , and then as an adviser in the Department for Education . in that time , I realise that the Conservative party and conservativism have a proud story to tell on the critical issue of help those who need help — on offer the most vulnerable in our society not just a handout but a leg up , and on stand up for what be just and fair in society . More than anything , they be about give people the opportunity to fulfil their potential . I count the ward of Whitton , Whitehouse and Castle Hill as part of my patch . Whitton and Whitehouse be two of the most deprived ward in our country . Castle Hill be probably one of the most unequal . by any measure , Ipswich be , like its football team , a huge success story , but large part of it , include many family live in Whitehouse , Whitton and Castle Hill , have be leave behind . the story be all too familiar : the failure to adapt in a post - industrial economy ; generation of low - wage work , if not worklessness ; the proliferation of crime ; and high level of immigration that have cause a degree of social polarisation . for however long the people of Central Suffolk and North Ipswich want I to represent they , I will fight in this place to empower those people who feel left behind , those who want to get on in life , and those who want to , and can , reach their potential . at a time when faith and trust in politic be at an all - time low among those who feel lock out of our economy and our society , there be no more pressing cause than ensure that Britain work for everyone . today , we be debate the merit of allow mps to have a second job . time and again on the doorstep during the election , and across dining table for many year , I have hear from people — rich and poor , young and old , left and right — that they have lose faith in politician do the right thing . believe it or not , the NHS , immigration , job , income and access to home be all hugely important to the voter at this general election , but the most important thing to the people across my constituency — from Whitehouse to Whitton , Kesgrave to Claydon and Ringshall to Rendham — whether they vote for I or not , be restore a sense of moral probity and public spiritedness to our political system . as we embark on this debate and other in this place , let we keep that in mind . before I finish , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Dr Dan Poulter . he be as dedicate a servant to the people of Suffolk and Ipswich as ever there be , both an MP and in his second job as a consultant doctor . he use his invaluable NHS experience when he be a junior Minister in the Department of Health , and when he be on the draft Bill Committee review the Mental Health Act 1983 for the first time in 40 year . we feel the benefit of his healthcare expertise in Suffolk when he manage to save Hertismere hospital , which be previously in my constituency and be now in neighbour Waveney Valley , and when he lobby the Government for a new accident and emergency wing for Ipswich general hospital . as many people know , Dr Dan arrive in this House as a Member of my party and leave as a Member of another , but I do not feel any ill will , for another political hero of mine , Winston Churchill , perform a similar journey over 120 year ago . I do not mind say it here , Madam Deputy Speaker : I , too , hope one day to cross the Floor . before I give my whip a heart attack , I should add : not to swap political allegiance , but as part of a conservative party elect back into government , take our place on the Government Benches . that be a whip - issue line . in the meantime , though , I would like to thank my wife and my two little boy , Leo and Jasper , who I be sure be watch on BBC Parliament right now . I also thank the Doorkeepers and the Clerks . I also want to thank my mother , who have be a real troup to sit through a nearly 3 . 5 - hour debate . she look bright now than she do when I put she in a polling station as a teller . as I be say , I look forward to work with member from across the House in the pursuit of deliver for the people of this great nation .