Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — innovation : Co - operation between Universities and business whether she have have discussion with Cabinet colleague on encourage co - operation between university and business to promote innovation . of course , I speak to colleague on this important topic all the time . our science and technology framework be design to ensure that we do not just challenge university ranking , but translate they into material benefit for the United Kingdom . my Department have a number of programme break down the barrier between university and business , which have contribute to the nearly 90 , 000 interaction report between university and business in 2021 - 22 . that be a 5 % increase on the previous year . since we have have the impact assessment of university globally , many of the new and more innovative small university have outstrip the more conventional and well - know university . indeed , the Huddersfield health innovation campus be lead in this area . do the Minister agree that that innovation partnership offer real opportunity for job in the future , and should there not be more incentive to make innovation come fast rather than slow ? I agree with the hon . member about the importance of focus on innovation and collaboration in this area . the University of Huddersfield receive £ 1 . 63 million this year through the high education innovation fund to support knowledge exchange and collaboration with business , and I be sure that we can write to the hon . member with more detail . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . on 1 January this year , the UK become an associate member of the Horizon Europe programme and Copernicus . give our delayed start , could the Secretary of State say what step she be take to encourage participation by UK university and business ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . I welcome the news share just last week by Commissioner Ivanova , who say the early sign of uptake be absolutely excellent . indeed , some programme be project an increase of over 50 % . we be not be complacent . we have launch a comprehensive international marketing campaign , introduce a pump - prime scheme with the British Academy and already start on roadshow . I call the shadow Minister . british researcher be among the good in the world . we be not so good at turn our brilliant research into the growth that our economy so desperately need , which require collaboration between business and university throughout the long year of discovery , testing , adoption and commercialisation . funding science in chunk of three year or less do not help , so university , business and researcher have all welcome Labour ' s commitment to set 10 - year budget for funding body in key institution . do the Secretary of State agree , or be that too much to expect from a short - term , stick - plaster government ? while the word sound good , it be this Government who be deliver on our plan . just a few month ago we publish our response to the spin - out review , and we be make record level of investment — £ 20 billion in research and development . this be a Government who be not just talk the talk , but actually deliver . woman in STEM Jobs what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support woman into science , technology , engineering and mathematic job . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support woman into science , technology , engineering and mathematic job . our priority be to ensure that everyone , regardless of background , can pursue the exciting opportunity in STEM . that ambition fully extend to the hon . member ' constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire North and in Livingston . new datum from Times Higher Education reveal that female science undergraduate be twice as likely to experience sexism as their peer on non - science course . many have report be patronise or belittle by their male classmate , with this behaviour routinely go unchallenged by staff . what step be the Minister take to address the pervasive culture of sexism in STEM so that more woman can be encourage to pursue job in that important sector ? a key priority for this Government be ensure that everybody , regardless of background , face no discrimination and can pursue an occupation in STEM . I be pleased to report that the number of STEM apprenticeship start by woman this year be up by almost 8 % , and since 2016 a total of almost £ 8 million have be award to 152 remarkable woman role model to help they grow their business and innovation . a vaccine firm in my Livingston constituency , Valneva , do lifesave and pioneer work , and nearly 50 % of its workforce be woman . it do brilliant work to encourage woman into STEM career . would the Minister consider come to Livingston , visit Valneva , and meet the company and I to see at first hand the fantastic work it do ? yes , and I commend the hon . Lady for have that very successful female - opportunity - give firm in her constituency . I be in Scotland later this month and I will try to visit she . there can be no well example of business encourage STEM education right through school and university for both man and woman than the James Dyson Foundation in Malmesbury in my constituency . will the Minister join I in warmly thank and congratulate Sir James Dyson on his recent contribution of £ 6 million to Malmesbury Primary School , which will also be available for all child in Malmesbury to promote STEM at the heart of my constituency ? I warmly congratulate the Dyson Foundation on that . it be a fantastic example of philanthropy . as my hon . friend will know , math education be a key building block , and we be consult on establish a national academy of mathematical science , back by £ 6 million of funding . the consultation end this Sunday and I hope that many hon . member will respond . improve diversity in STEM be not just the right thing to do ; it be vital to our future success . diversity bring new way of thinking , a well understanding and a new approach . can the Minister ensure that the Department for Education encourage people to think about STEM career at the early possible level , particularly in primary school ? my hon . friend make an important point about diversity in STEM start at the early possible age . I will of course talk to my colleague in the Department for Education about do precisely that . a number of my constituent who work in STEM area have express concern about female research partner currently in Gaza . can the Minister confirm whether any discussion have take place with colleague at the Home Office about provide emergency visa to female STEM academic who be currently work in collaboration with UK partner ? I be not aware of that , but I will happily ask the question of Home Office colleague and write to the hon . Lady . space Industry Skills Gap what step her Department be take to tackle the space industry skill gap . deliver a national space strategy be a key priority for I and the Department . I recognise that a strong space workforce be critical to this , and my hon . friend will be pleased to know that we will be publish a space workforce action plan later this year . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his answer and for his work on this . he know , as I do , that the innovation economy in this country be create hundred of thousand of new job . indeed , 500 , 000 be forecast over the next 10 year in space , agritech , cleantech engineering and bio , in cluster all around the country , as the recent cluster map show . will he ensure that the excellent Department for Education future skill unit liaise closely with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology cluster team to make sure that we be properly build the job creation plan into the local skill improvement plan on the ground ? my hon . friend have do so much to advance the interest of skill in the sector during his many year of public service , and he be quite right to draw attention to the successful cluster map that be launch by the Secretary of State 10 day ago . the development of skill be a share responsibility between Government and industry and we take our responsibility in that respect very seriously . I want to put on record my thank to the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) for have take the Sutherland spaceport to where it be . it be now well under way . do the Minister agree that the skill we have at Dounreay and at the nearby Thurso College could play a large part in make this a centre of excellence for space launch ? I do agree with the hon . gentleman . this be a very exciting moment in UK space , and he have long champion the cause of his own constituent in that respect . I look forward to this year be a very successful year for he and the whole space supply chain , and inspire a future generation locally . Rural Connectivity what step her Department be take to improve rural connectivity . what step her Department be take to improve rural connectivity . what step her Department be take to improve rural connectivity . what step her Department be take to improve rural connectivity . we have make huge progress in connect the countryside . in 2019 only 6 % of premise have gigabit - capable broadband ; now it be 80 % , and the UK be build gigabit network fast than any country in the EU . this month we launch another six Project Gigabit contract to connect another 690 , 000 rural home . the shared rural network be tackle mobile notspot and we have satellite trial for the very hard to reach . I be grateful to the Minister for all the work that her Department be do , but my constituent in Inkberrow have contact I because they be really concerned that the infrastructure for their much - need broadband be be put in use pole in the street rather than underground as they be promise . we must upgrade our infrastructure , but we must not damage our beautiful countryside in the process , so what can she do to support my constituent in Inkberrow to ensure that this much - need infrastructure be bury underground ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this point , and I agree that we want to build underground where possible . it be important that she be advocate on behalf of her constituent , because we have have issue relate to pole . we encourage share , but that be not always happen . it seem to be an issue in particular pocket of the country , and we be talk to Ofcom about this to see what more we can do . it be brilliant to hear about all of this progress . what assessment have the Minister make of the value for money cap in connect the hard - to - reach household and business , of which I have many in my very rural , incredibly beautiful but sparsely populated constituency ? my hon . friend ' s constituency have very low gigabit connectivity , partly because its geography make connection very expensive . that be why we launch one of our very first contract in Cumbria . some 15 , 000 premise be go to be connect across Copeland , and we be try to stretch the contract as far as it will go . for premise that will not be reach , we will look at other technology so that we can get to they as quickly as possible . I work closely with Philip Burrows , Denbighshire ' s excellent digital officer . he tell I that Openreach can still impose significant excess charge to connect property that be declare enable for fibre . in those instance , people be unable to claim via the gigabit voucher scheme . will my hon . friend outline what step she be take to address this matter ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the experience of Mr Burrows , who sound like a very experienced officer . I would like to hear a bit more detail , because it sound like the property he cite have access to a fibre connection and would not be eligible for a voucher . I would like to know a bit more about the excess charge so that we can deal with any problem . Rossett , outside Wrexham , have little to no connectivity , despite the Ofcom checker predict that it have a good signal . this significantly limit resident ' life . Ofcom acknowledge that it be a prediction , but Building Digital UK say that , because the Government rely on this prediction , there be little chance of Rossett receive any benefit from the share rural network programme . what would the Minister advise my resident to do ? my hon . friend highlight the challenge I have have in answer this question . the mobile connectivity figure I have for her constituency be extremely high . this highlight the issue we have with Ofcom ' s report map , which be simply not good enough . we have consistently raise this with Ofcom , and we hope to make progress . there have be significant improvement in rural broadband connectivity in Northern Ireland as a result of our agreement with the previous Government . will the Minister take step to ensure that small business in rural area across the country can far develop themselves by maximise this advantage ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the fantastic connectivity in Northern Ireland . in fact , I think it have some of the very good connectivity in the entire country . I will look into any spot that be still not cover , and I will happily get back to he . I thank the Minister for that answer . will she outline how rural business can ensure that they have superfast broadband to secure their viability in an increasingly online market ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , but his business no long want superfast . they want gigabit speed and , thankfully , Northern Ireland have tremendous gigabit speed . if there be any issue , particularly with access for small business , I be happy to look into they . Devon County Council be spend its broadband clawback money on anything but broadband . that £ 7 . 8 million be intend for improve broadband in rural area , include in village such as Northleigh . resident have encounter numerous pledge on pole , but they still do not have full fibre . do the Minister think the clawback funding for broadband should have be ringfence by Devon County Council ? these issue have be highlight many time by Conservative Members from Devon . we think we have work through some of those challenge . the clawback challenge that the hon . Gentleman highlight have not previously be raise with I , and I will happily look into it for he . some 4 . 8 million people live in rural 5 g notspot ; rural area be seven time more likely to have broadband speed bad than those at base camp at Everest ; one in five poor home have no internet to the home at all ; and cardiac arrest phone and medical monitor still rely on analogue telephony . [ interruption . ] why be this Government such an abject failure ? order . the House could not hear Sir Chris Bryant — [ interruption . ] I will have no suggestion that that be deliberate . People may need to speak , but can they do so in a quiet voice and allow Sir Chris to re - ask his question ? let we just stick with the punchline , shall we ? why be this Government such an abject failure ? I know that the hon . Gentleman love to stick the boot in , but he have choose the wrong subject here . in 2019 , there be 6 % gigabit coverage , whereas the figure now be 80 % . this be a massive infrastructure project , and it be one of the big success that we have , so he have choose the wrong thing to be snipey about . Medical Technology : Research and Development what step her Department be take to support research and development in medical technology . the UK have an exceptional record of innovation in medical technology . there could not be a more exciting time for the sector ; we be extend the length and quality of human life , and solve rare disease , with the help of the Medical Research Council ' s £ 650 million grant this year . the north - east have a fantastic life science sector , with 7 , 000 people work in it and a unique combination of medical and technology asset , network and academic expertise . however , with business investment at record low , what be the Government do to ensure that our brilliant research and development be transfer into real manufacturing job ? as the hon . Lady will know , the Government be invest in medical manufacturing . I would be happy to meet she or business in her constituency to make sure that they can access those fund . however , it be only the good stewardship of our economy that have allow we to continue to invest record amount in research and innovation in the UK . Artificial Intelligence Regulation what step she be take to ensure that regulator have adequate capacity and co - ordination to implement the AI regulatory principle . ensure that regulator have the right skill and capability to regulate in their domain be fundamental to the effective delivery of our approach on artificial intelligence regulation . to support that , we have establish a central co - ordination function , which will provide regulator with guidance on implement the regulatory principle and help they to identify emerge risk and challenge . the £ 10 million funding we have announce to jump - start regulator capacity and capability will form a crucial element of this work . AI in the UK still lack sufficient regulation , despite the pace of change and the risk pose . the Government state that they expect to introduce " a statutory duty on regulator require they to have due regard " to the five high - level principle outline in the AI White Paper . so will the Secretary of State confirm if and when she will legislate for that , and what factor will inform her decision ? the risk of AI be still emerge , so the priority of this Government be keep pace with those risk , to keep the public safe . that be why we have an agile , sector - specific approach , utilise our world - lead regulator , whereas the opposition keep call for legislation on an area they do not understand . do the Secretary of State agree that one important thing about the Bletchley conference be that it enable international co - operation on interoperability and a common approach ? do she also agree that that will enable regulator to co - operate internationally ? I absolutely agree with what my right hon . and learn Friend say , and I call it the " bletchley effect " ; we have see action take in other nation across the world since our world - lead first ever AI global summit on safety . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I call the Secretary of State . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — [ interruption . ] order . let we keep it a bit quieter it be not fair that we can not hear the Minister . we have just celebrate one year since my Department be create . in that time , we have push research and development funding to record level . we have secure a bespoke deal on Horizon Europe . we have lead the globe when it come to AI safety , and we have pass the world - lead Online Safety Act 2023 and much more . we have a plan to go even far . my Department continue to drive innovation , to create well job and to push economic growth . this month , we have set out our pro - innovation , pro - safety plan to regulate artificial intelligence , build on the success of the AI safety summit to cement Britain ' s position as a global leader in safe and trustworthy AI . we be slash red tape to free our researcher from pointless paperwork . we have a plan to go even far and become a science and technology superpower , and that plan be work . high salary requirement and visa charge for skilled worker plus impossibly restrictive family visa rule will put the UK out of reach for many early career researcher and scientist . what be the Secretary of State do to stand up against these crazy Home Office policy , which will make her own Department ' s goal for recruit researcher and technician virtually impossible to achieve ? the UK have fantastic pull power , with world - lead facility , four out of the top 10 university and a range of route for people to come here , include the very successful global talent visa . recently , after some storm , resident in Hanbury and other rural part of my constituency be without broadband for three week . the problem be fix only when I , the local MP , get involve . what can the Minister do to make sure that these provider restore service much more quickly ? three week be a completely unacceptable delay . I be sorry to hear of the problem that my hon . friend ' s constituent experience . telecommunication company be under certain obligation to Ofcom to keep network up and run . we be test those resilience measure . thankfully , gigabit broadband be a much more resilient network which , have withstand flood in York recently for example , but we hope to be able to have a much more resilient network in future . I call the shadow Minister . the Government ' s AI White Paper say that all jurisdiction will need mandatory reporting of frontier AI . the United States have already do it . the EU have already do it . why be the Secretary of State wait for a Labour Government to keep this country safe ? I will not take any lecture from the opposition when it come to AI . we have a plan that be work . we be lead the world when it come to AI safety . I have speak about the Bletchley effect . we have the world ' s first ever institute do pre - deployment testing . parent want their child to be safe . many parent be deeply concerned about what child be see on their phone . do the Secretary of State agree that seller of mobile phone should be do much more to verify the age of the user ? if the phone be be buy for a child , the seller should provide the parent with access to and advice on parental control , so that parent can help to keep their child safe . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend ' s passion when it come to online safety . we be lead the world with our comprehensive Online Safety Act 2023 . this be a matter on which we both agree and I be more than happy to discuss it far with she . the area between Cockshutt and Welshampton in my constituency be one of the many total notspot in North Shropshire . can the Minister update we on the progress she be make on total notspot ? will she meet I to discuss the progress of the share rural network in North Shropshire ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the issue of total and partial notspot . our amazing share rural network programme have £ 500 million from industry and £ 500 million from Government . we be go through all of those coverage area that be show want , and we hope to make progress in her own constituency . during recess , I take part in a cross - party Inter - parliamentary Union delegation to the UN summit on conflict and security . one of the seminar be about AI security . I know the UK hold the first ever summit on AI safety , with 28 country come together to put forward guideline . what update do we have on bring more country on board to ensure that AI can be explore safely ? there be a lot of ongoing work , include my conversation with G7 partner ; I know that the Secretary of State be meet with international partner . I would welcome a meeting and an update from my hon . friend on his conversation at the UN and what work be be do there . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 21 February . the whole House will join I in send our deep condolence to the family of Alexei Navalny . he die for a cause to which he dedicate his whole life : freedom . to return home know that Putin have already try to have he kill be one of the most courageous act of our time . together with our ally , we be consider all option to hold Russia and Putin to account , and this morning we sanction those run the prison where Alexei Navalny ' s body still lie . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I know that my right hon . friend will share the horror feel by this House — the old people ' s assembly in the world — at the acid attack against a woman and two child on the street of London . do he share my anger that we would still have be unable to deport the perpetrator have he be find because of the so - call European Court of Human Rights ? when will we stop bend the knee to this so - call european court — a travesty of a court ? this be a horrific attack , and my thought be with the victim and their family . obviously , I can not comment on a live investigation , but speak more broadly , clearly I do not think that it be right for dangerous foreign criminal to be able to stay in our country . that be why our Nationality and Borders Act 2022 make it clear that anyone who be convict of a crime and get a sentence of 12 month or more will not be grant asylum in the United Kingdom . that be the common - sense position , which I believe be support by the majority of the british public , but one that the Labour party vote against time and time again . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I start by welcome my hon . friend the new Members for Kingswood ( Damien Egan ) and for Wellingborough ( Gen Kitchen ) . I know that they will both be powerful advocate for their constituent . on a more sombre note , I join with the Prime Minister — I be glad to hear what he just have to say , because I be sure that the whole House will join I — in share our disgust at the death of Alexei Navalny , who , as the Prime Minister say , die because of his effort to expose the corruption of the Putin regime . it be a reminder that Putin have steal not just the wealth but the future and democracy of the russian people . would the Prime Minister be prepare personally to repeat the allegation make by his Business Secretary that the former chair of the Post Office be " lie " when he say that he be tell to " go slow " on compensation for postmaster , and " limp " to the next election ? as the Business Secretary say on Monday , she ask Henry Staunton to step down after serious concern be raise . she set out the reason for this , and the full background , in the House early this week , but importantly we have take unprecedented step to ensure that victim of the Horizon scandal receive compensation as swiftly as possible , and in full . make sure that victim receive justice and compensation remain our no . 1 priority , and we will shortly bring forward legislation to address this matter . I be not sure that take we very much far forward , so let I press on . on Monday , the Business Secretary also confirm categorically — I will quote this , in fairness to the Prime Minister : " that the Post Office be at no point tell to delay compensation payment by either an official or a Minister from any Government Department , and that at no point be it suggest that a delay would be of benefit to the Treasury " . — [ Official Report , 19 February 2024 ; Vol . 745 , c . 476 . ] that be on Monday . a note release by the former Post Office chair this morning appear to directly contradict that . I appreciate — [ interruption . ] this really matter to the people who have be at the heart of this . I appreciate that the Business Secretary have put the Prime Minister in a tricky position , but will he commit to investigate this matter properly , include whether that categorical statement be correct , and why , rather than take those accusation seriously , she accuse a whistleblower of lying ? it be worth bear in mind that , as the Business Secretary say on Monday , she ask Henry Staunton to step down after serious concern be raise . however , this be , on a matter of substance , one of the great miscarriage of justice in our nation ' s history , because people who be work hard serve their community have their life and reputation destroy . that be why we be work hard to ensure that they get justice and compensation , why we establish Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry , why we have already pay out over £ 150 million of compensation to almost 3 , 000 victim , and why we will introduce new legislation shortly to exonerate they . we will ensure that we do what be need , that the truth come to light , that we right the wrong of the past , and , crucially , that victim get the justice that they deserve . I do hope that the Prime Minister will instigate that investigation into what be say on Monday , because one of the feature of this miscarriage be that where concern have be raise , they have be push to one side . this week , we also learn that a 2016 investigation into whether post office branch account could be alter be suddenly stop before it be complete . have that investigation reveal that they could be alter , which we now know to be the case , the livelihood of those wrongly prosecute could have be save . what do Government Ministers know about it at the time ? the Leader of the Opposition have pick one particular date , but it be worth bear in mind that this scandal — [ interruption . ] hang on . this scandal have unfold over decade , and it be follow a landmark 2019 High Court case that the previous Government establish a statutory inquiry lead by Sir Wyn Williams , which be uncover exactly what go wrong . it be right that that inquiry be allow to do its work . also , follow the High Court case , the Government establish an independent advisory board and not one but three different compensation scheme . as of now , over two third of people have receive full and final offer . what we be focus on be ensure that victim get the justice and compensation that they deserve . this information about 2016 have come to light just this week , which be precisely why I be ask about it . consider that the Prime Minister ' s Foreign Secretary be run the Government in 2016 , and one of the Prime Minister ' s current Cabinet Office Ministers be the Post Office Minister , have he think to ask either of they what they know in 2016 ? no , Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] we do the right thing , which be to set up an independent statutory inquiry . that be the right way to resolve this issue ; it be the right way to get victim the truth and the answer that they demand . this government be get on with get they the compensation that they rightly deserve . as we all know , the Horizon scandal leave people isolate , their livelihood lose , their life ruin . some die without ever get the justice that they deserve . fear of delay , or of cover up , be cause they anguish . yesterday , Chris Head , once accuse by the Post Office of owe more than £ 80 , 000 , say this : " there be a lack of transparency … we need to see the correspondence between [ the ] Post Office , the department and UKGI because all of this time everything get shroud in secrecy " — [ interruption . ] these be his word ; have some respect , please . these be victim . I appreciate that the inquiry be ongoing , but as the Prime Minister know — as do I and the whole House — that do not provide a reason why he can not draw a line under this , give postmaster such as Chris the peace of mind that they need , and release all the correspondence that he want to see . will he now do so ? as I say , this be one of the great miscarriage of justice in our country ' s history . I do not think it be one that the Leader of the Opposition ever raise with I during these exchange over the past year , but we be work hard to get victim not just the answer but the compensation that they deserve . we now have a statutory inquiry lead by Sir Wyn Williams , who have the power to get access to all the documentation that he require and to speak to everybody that he need to . that be the right and proper way to get the truth that the victim deserve , but in the meantime , we be not waste a moment to get victim the compensation they deserve . the legislation will be before the House shortly . in recent decade , there have be numerous scandal that have leave public faith in our institution shake , and rebuild that confidence will require those affect to see that politician be be honest with they and to believe it . just like the postmaster , victim of the infected blood scandal have be subject to unimaginable trauma during their search for justice , so can the Prime Minister put their mind at ease and tell the House what undertaking he have give to ensure that the Government be not " limp to the election " on payment that those victim be owe by the british state ? when it come to the infected blood scandal , as I have say before , I be acutely aware of the strength of feeling on this issue and the suffering of all those who be impact by that dreadful scandal . I give evidence to the inquiry myself last year , and as I say then , I recognise that thousand have suffer for decade . as the Leader of the Opposition know , there be an independent inquiry . as this be an incredibly complex issue , as he well know , the Minister for the Cabinet Office update Parliament with the late Government position just before the Christmas recess . he announce that the Cabinet Office be appoint an expert group of clinical , legal and social care expert so that it have the relevant expertise to make informed decision , respond to the inquiry ' s recommendation on compensation when they come . he also confirm that the Department of Health and Social Care will implement a fully bespoke psychological service for people infect and affect . we have also commit to provide an update to Parliament on next step through an oral statement within 25 sit day of the publication of the final report . but I will end where I begin : this be a deeply awful scandal , and we will do what we need to do to make it right . there be a plan for at least 2 , 000 single young man who have come here illegally soon to be house just 3 mile from the centre of Lincoln at RAF Scampton , in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) — if Home Office Ministers have their way . on top of the huge and rise cost and the recent advice from civil servant to Home Office Ministers to can the plan , what reassurance can the Prime Minister and his Home Secretary give that Scampton will not replicate the scandalous incident that occur in Cambridge in 2014 , when 300 libyan trainee be house at RAF Bassingbourn ? my hon . friend be right to raise the concern of his constituent . I assure he that we want asylum accommodation to have as little impact as possible on the local community . I understand that the Home Office have put a number of measure in place , include a specialist security provider work on site 24 / 7 and CCTV , and it be work with the local police as well . however , I know my hon . friend agree with I that the only way to stop this problem fully and ensure that local community be not see the housing of illegal migrant — whether that be on large site or in hotel — be to have a plan to stop the boat . that be what this party and this government do , and it be labour that be block we at every step of the way . I call the SNP leader . I begin by echo the sentiment of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in relation to the heroic bravery of Alexei Navalny . we must all continue to be unite in our opposition to Vladimir Putin . as it stand , some 60 % of the building in Gaza be either damage or destroy . much of the farmland be in ruin ; some 30 , 000 people be dead , 70 , 000 be injure , and 1 . 4 million be currently shelter in Rafah , await an imminent israeli onslaught . surely the Prime Minister must accept that that do not amount to self - defence . I share the concern of many member about the high rate of civilian casualty and , indeed , the grow humanitarian crisis in Gaza . that be why we have call consistently for an immediate humanitarian pause , which would allow for the safe release of hostage and more aid go into Gaza , so that we create the sustainable condition for a long - term and endure ceasefire . that be what our diplomatic effort be focus on , and that be what I impress upon the israeli Prime Minister last week when I speak to he . tonight , this House will have the opportunity to join the majority of the international community and say that enough be enough , that the killing in Gaza must stop and that the hostage must be release , and the good way to do that be to send a clear and united message that we back an immediate ceasefire . surely , all of we , irrespective of our political allegiance , can agree on that very issue ? of course , we want to see the fighting in Gaza end as soon as possible , and never again allow Hamas to carry out the appalling terrorist attack that Israel be subject to . the hon . member talk about the UN resolution , but just call for an immediate full ceasefire now , which collapse back into fighting within day or week , be not in anyone ' s interest . we must work towards a permanent ceasefire , and that be why the right approach be the approach that we have set out and the United States have set out in its resolution , which be for an immediate humanitarian pause to get hostage out and aid in , so that we then can create the condition for a sustainable ceasefire . in the meantime , we be do everything we can to increase the amount of humanitarian aid that we bring into Gaza — something I discuss with the King of Jordan last week — and we will have more update in the come day of more airdrop into Gaza , but also just in the last couple of day , that have manage to deliver family tent into Gaza , which be provide much - need shelter for very vulnerable people . key to the much - need regeneration of Aylesbury be new link road to cut congestion . money from the cancel part of HS2 be mean to be pay towards they — that be only right , give the destruction be cause by the construction of the first part of this unwanted railway — but the cash have not arrive yet . can my right hon . friend assure my constituent they will get the road they need , so they can spend less time sit in traffic jam and more time grow the local economy ? as my hon . friend know , last autumn we announce the Government ' s vision to redirect £ 36 billion of saving from HS2 to invest in hundred of transport project across the country , include possible increase funding for two project that I know my hon . friend have campaign on tirelessly — the south - east Aylesbury link road and the Aylesbury eastern link road . I know he have meet the relevant Minister on a number of occasion to discuss these proposal , and I can tell he that the detail of how these funding uplift will be allocate will be decide very shortly . over 40 , 000 North sea oil and gas job be at risk from an incoming Labour Administration , and neither Labour , the Tories or the SNP have lift a finger to save Grangemouth oil refinery from closure . with the passing of last night ' s Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , the UK Government give not one , but two finger to Scotland ' s energy ambition within the UK . can the Prime Minister explain : in today ' s money , the UK have receive over £ 300 billion in tax receipt from North sea oil and gas , so why can not the UK Government find £ 80 million to secure Grangemouth ' s future and profitability beyond 2025 ? as I have previously tell the House , the future of Grangemouth be a commercial decision for its owner . the site will remain operate as a refinery until at least May 2025 . the UK and the scottish Governments be work together to make sure that there be sufficient assurance in place for the support of employee . but when it come to back scottish energy , it be this Government who just this week have ensure that we can support British North sea oil and gas , safeguard 200 , 000 job and increase our energy security . it be the SNP and the Labour party that oppose that , but we will always back our fantastic North sea economy . do the Prime Minister agree with I and Welsh farmer such as Gareth Wyn Jones that our farmer and food security be vital and that the agricultural budget should be ringfence , unlike the Welsh Labour Government , prop up by Plaid , who be determined to force our farmer out of business with their approach to nitrate vulnerable zone , TB and their new sustainable farming scheme , which use the Welsh Government ' s own analysis , be forecast to result in 5 , 500 job loss and a £ 200 million hit to the Welsh economy ? my hon . friend be an excellent campaigner on behalf of her local farming community , and I know she have be work hard with Gareth Wyn Jones to raise its voice , especially where there be so much concern . conservative Members be support farmer with more money to grow more british food , in contrast with the plan she highlight , which would decimate farming community in Wales and be the opposite of what be need . while we will always back our rural community across the UK , Labour would take they back to square one . it be now more than two year since the fan - lead review on football governance be produce . will the Prime Minister commit to set up an independent regulator , with the up - front power to intervene to achieve a fairer distribution of football ' s enormous rich , to ensure that no community in future lose its football club , as happen in Bury ? will he commit to bring forward legislation urgently , or will he leave it for a future Labour Government to act on behalf of football fan ? the independent regulator will put fan back at the heart of football and help to deliver a sustainable future for all club . that deliver on our manifesto commitment . the Government be engage in discussion with industry , and that be part of our king ' s Speech , as the hon . Gentleman know . I be glad he bring up bury football club , because it be my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) who ensure £ 1 million of funding to safeguard that football club , and that be what we be do to community up and down the country . gp surgery promise in planning application take far too long to be build . can we clear away the obstacle and make it easy for our amazing family doctor to use additional consulting room that they be happy with elsewhere in the community , so that GPs , and the many extra prescribing nurse they be now employ , can see more patient now while they wait for bespoke premise to be build ? I thank my hon . friend , who speak from a point of authority . he know that we have high standard to ensure that GPs provide service from premise that meet all the require criterion , but I understand it be possible for those service to be provide at alternative location that meet the contract requirement . I will happily ensure that the Health and Social Care Secretary look into his suggestion about more flexibility . he will also welcome our recent plan to expand the range of service available at pharmacy , save many people time and hassle to get treatment for seven common ailment at their local pharmacist , ease the pressure on our gps and speed up the care that people deserve . I be in the House on 18 March 2003 when this House vote to go to war in Iraq on the demand of the then Labour Government . what follow be death , misery , and destruction on an almost unimaginable scale . vote against the Iraq war be the vote I be most proud of in my time in this House . today , after 29 , 000 death in Gaza , we face a vote of similar significance . do the Prime Minister believe that mps today should look back with that same pride , know that they have do everything possible to stop the death , destruction , and misery tonight ? nobody want to see the fighting in Gaza go on for a moment long than be necessary , and nobody want to see innocent civilian suffer . that be why we be do absolutely everything we can to bring about an immediate humanitarian pause , allow for the safe release of hostage , which the hon . Gentleman fail to mention I believe , and also get more aid into Gaza to create the condition for a genuinely sustainable ceasefire . that be the position share by our ally , that be what our diplomatic effort be focus on , and that be what our motion tonight will reflect . I have have the privilege to be spend a lot of time with the law - abide , tax - pay , hard - work patriotic people of Romford in recent month , and they have be tell I what they think . do the Prime Minister agree with the people of Romford that we need a radical plan to control immigration and stop illegal immigration , to regain sovereignty over our human right law in this country , to tell the Mayor of London that we need more police to stop crime in the London Borough of Havering , and a fair funding settlement for Havering ? will the Prime Minister come with I to Romford market , follow the footstep of Margaret Thatcher , and meet the people of Romford ? one thing I can tell he they do not want be to be take back into the European Union by a socialist Government . may I welcome my hon . friend back to his place ? I agree with everything he say , and I look forward to visit he and his Romford constituent at the early opportunity . at a recent meeting of Warwickshire County Council , child with special educational need be describe by some county councillor as require " some form of strict correction " , or be " just really badly behave " . other inappropriate language be use . parent of SEN child across the country have be outrage by this , with some 30 , 000 of they sign a petition call for those councillor ' resignation . will the Prime Minister condemn the conservative councillor ' language and urge they to do the right thing and resign ? I have not see the detail of those comment and this issue . more generally , the Government have a strong track record of support those with disability . it be important that child with special educational need receive the right support in the right place at the right time . we have see funding for SEN increase by 60 % over this Parliament to more than £ 10 billion . most recently , the Department for Education and the Department of Health and Social Care be pilot a new project to improve access to specialty support in mainstream primary school , because we want to make sure that these child get all the support and opportunity they deserve . we have legislate to give the public ID verification option on social medium , and tech company know the safety value and popularity of that , because they offer it now , but for a big fee every month — it be not good enough . bereaved parent be campaign for more measure to protect kid online , fraudster be routinely exploit fake social medium account to scam , and there be fear of global political interference in election from faceless , traceless bot . it be create the perfect cyber - storm . will my right hon . friend use his influence to get tech company to get on with offer robust , visible and free verification measure as soon as possible to keep people safe ? can I start by commend my hon . friend on her work on this issue ? she be absolutely right that user verification can be a powerful tool to keep people safe online . the Online Safety Act 2023 , as she know , require company to offer all adult optional user identity verification . company will also need to take firm action to improve safety for child in particular , and Ofcom will be able to monitor tech company and have strong power to ensure they comply . I can tell she that the Home Secretary be meet the industry on Monday next week and will be sure to raise the point she have mention today . a KPMG study find a strong economic case to remove power cable over the Tyne . despite my question to previous Prime Ministers , we be no far forward . can this Prime Minister finally secure a commitment from National Grid to implement its clear legal obligation and fund this vital work ? this fog on the Tyne be impede local business and risk possible net GVA benefit of up to £ 1 . 2 billion . our great river need action now . I be happy to look into the issue that the hon . Lady raise . what would be damaging to the north - east and the Tyne be her party ' s plan to stick with their completely ridiculous 2030 decarbonisation target with absolutely no plan to pay for it , which just mean high taxis for everyone in her constituency and the country . Britain ' s food security , compromise by cheap foreign import , now face a parallel threat : all kind of industrialisation of the countryside , from large solar plant to interconnector and substation , and now huge pylon cover 87 mile of countryside . these will blot the landscape and use up valuable grow land , fill the fenland big sky . know that the Prime Minister ' s bow burn with gold , like my own , will he ensure that he join my fight for our green and pleasant land and so make sure that food security and energy security be not competitor ? my right hon . friend raise an excellent point about our food security . the Government have take step , which he have support , to protect prime agricultural land from large - scale solar development , which I know will be warmly welcome . our announcement this week at the National Farmers Union conference also demonstrate our support to increase our country ' s food security , back farmer with more funding and enhance their productivity to produce great british food . as he know , all of that , include our green and pleasant land , would be put at risk by the Labour party , which not only do not want to back our farmer but want to impose top - down planning target , which would concrete over the countryside that he and I both love . in December , the Cabinet Minister for Women and Equalities tell the House that she have engage " extensively " with LGBT organisation since her appointment 18 month ago . a freedom of information answer publish this week reveal that , in fact , the Minister have not meet a single LGBT organisation but have meet two fringe group that actively campaign against transgender right . what be the problem that the Prime Minister and a section of his party have with trans people , and that his Minister have with the truth ? as I have always say , the Government have a proud track record of support those in the LGBT community , and we will continue to do so . I have also always say that those who be question their gender and identity should be treat with the utmost dignity , compassion and sensitivity as they consider those question . but , alongside that , it be completely reasonable to highlight the importance of biological sex when it come to those question . nobody should be stigmatise or demonise for point out that fact . the Education Committee have hear compelling evidence to support the strengthening of guidance to keep mobile phone out of classroom and break time , but over the course of our screen time inquiry we continue to hear deeply disturbing evidence about the risk to young people from too much exposure to social medium too early . may I urge the Prime Minister to seek the swift possible implementation of the Online Safety Act 2023 and to consider whether it be time to review the age of digital consent ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on this issue . he know that we do have a plan when it come to education and protect child online . the Secretary of State be make sure that we can implement the Online Safety Act as quickly as possible with Ofcom , but we have also publish new guidance ban mobile phone in school , to minimise disruption and improve behaviour and educational attainment in the classroom . crucially , we be go beyond that , because what our child see online be of the utmost importance to we , and we want to make sure that we protect their safety and their mental health . when important matter of life and death be vote on in this House , do the Prime Minister think MPs should vote accord to their party Whip or accord to their conscience ? this afternoon the House will have an opportunity to consider its approach to the situation in Israel and Gaza . our position be crystal clear : we have call , and will always call , for an immediate humanitarian pause , which would allow the safe release of hostage and more aid to go into Gaza , to create the condition for a genuinely sustainable ceasefire . but just call for an immediate , full ceasefire now , which would collapse back into fighting in day or week , would not be in anyone ' s interest . we be commit not just to an immediate humanitarian pause , but to find a last resolution to this conflict that deliver on the promise of a two - state solution and ensure that Israelis and Palestinians can live in the future with dignity and security . it seem that , with the exception of the British Transport police , all other police force will treat non - contact sex crime as they would perhaps the theft of a bike , petty retail crime or antisocial behaviour . will the Prime Minister facilitate a meeting between I , colleague and the Home Secretary to give priority to these act of crime , to ensure that woman and young girl get the protection they deserve ? of course we want woman and girl to get the protection that they deserve , and I be pleased that our violence against woman and girl strategy be show result , improve the safety on our street and increase sentence for rapist . I will make sure that my hon . friend get the meeting that he need with the Home Secretary or relevant police Ministers to discuss his concern . I hear the Prime Minister ' s response to the Leader of the Opposition . just like the Business Secretary ' s claim that delay on compensation be wild , baseless allegation , his answer be unbelievable . the response from the Government Benches to the quote from my constituent Chris Head be completely disrespectful . the reality be that we would not have any action without the ITV serialisation of the sub - postmaster scandal — Government Members can shout all they like , but we all know that be the case . the Prime Minister have promise a new law to swiftly exonerate and compensate victim . today he say " shortly " , so will he commit today to ensure that it be bring forward before the next general election ? yes , the legislation will be bring before the House very , very soon . after Network Rail ' s so - call signal improvement work , there have be traffic chaos and delay at level crossing across Egham . in fact , datum analyse by my team show that in the year to September 2023 there be a 3 , 967 % increase in wait of more than 10 minute from when the barrier go down . do my right hon . friend agree that this be unacceptable and that Network Rail need to sort it out ? I be sorry to hear about the delay face by my hon . friend ' s constituent , which I know will be disruptive to their life . it be important that we have proper connectivity in our local area , and I will ensure that he get the relevant meeting he need to put pressure on Network Rail to improve the service it be provide . child and young adult be most likely to be the victim or perpetrator of knife crime . Ava White be 12 year old when she be stab and kill by a 14 - year - old in Liverpool city centre in 2021 . Danny Jamieson be 16 when he die as a result of knife crime . their mother , Leann and Mandy , be campaign for tough sentence for knife crime . will the Prime Minister support the Danny and Ava campaign to end the scourge of knife crime on our street ? I express my condolence to Danny and Ava ' s family , and the family of all the young people whose life have be so tragically cut short by knife crime . we have plan in place to cut knife crime , and they be work — we have confiscate over 120 , 000 weapon , we have cut violent crime in half since 2010 , and more dangerous criminal be go to jail for long . we be bring forward legislation to increase sentence for knife crime and to ban zombie knife , and I very much hope that the hon . Lady and her party will support those proposal when they be put before the House . after year of campaigning , it be great news that there will be a direct bus link between two of my big town in Rother Valley , Dinnington and Maltby . however , there be still a lack of bus transport to our local hospital . do the Prime Minister agree that the South Yorkshire Mayor should use some of his resource to back my plan for transport for the Rother Valley , to ensure that every single village and town have a direct bus link to our local hospital ? we know how vital bus service be to community right across the country — indeed , bus be our most popular form of public transportation — which be why we have use some of the saving from HS2 to invest in bus service . we have cap bus fare at £ 2 right across the country , and we have provide my hon . friend ' s local authority with million of pound of more funding specifically to support local bus service . I join he in call on the Mayor to ensure that there be direct bus route to hospital in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and to make sure that people can see their love one at a distressing time . at the weekend the people of south Wales march in support of the steel industry , follow the Government ' s grubby deal with Tata , which be now place thousand of job at risk in Port Talbot and beyond . the Prime Minister be fail to protect our steel industry because he fail to make protect job at the plant a red line . he now have a choice : work with the union , Tata and the workforce to protect the industry and the job with investment , or walk away and do what tory always do — abandon the south Wales community yet again . which be it , Prime Minister ? this Government have work hard to secure a long - term , sustainable future for Welsh steelmaking , and to grow the legacy of that important industry . that be why during the pandemic we step in to support Celsa , which , as the hon . Gentleman know , safeguard more than 1 , 000 job and ensure that the plant be sustainable . it be why we agree one of the large ever cash grant , of half a billion pound , for Tata Steel to safeguard at least 5 , 000 job that would otherwise have be lose . the hon . Gentleman might want to ask why the Welsh Labour Government do not put in a penny to support that deal . the Watford area continue to be the proud home of the national lottery , which employ more than 900 people . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister , and the whole Cabinet , join I in celebrate the successful handover from Camelot to Allwyn on 1 February , and also the £ 48 billion raise by national lottery player , which so far have fund 700 , 000 project in , I be sure , every constituency ? I join my hon . friend in his congratulation and thank everyone involve with the national lottery . we be all see , in our constituency , the incredible benefit from the investment that they be make , and he be absolutely right to ensure that they receive the praise they deserve today in Parliament . the Prime Minister have be at it again . in a previous answer , he boast about transfer investment from the north of England to the south . when he come to Manchester in the autumn to insult the people of the north of England and cancel hs2 — proudly cancel it — be he aware then that , because the train have to split without the HS2 line and do not tilt , he would be slow down service and reduce capacity ? do he not know that , or do he not care ? let I say a couple of thing . first , our plan to continue with phase 1 mean that we can handle triple the capacity that be currently be use on the line . secondly , every penny of the £ 19 . 8 billion from the northern bit of hs2 will stay in the north , be invest in service that people use , such as local bus , and will be deliver quick . thirdly , the hon . Gentleman be critical of the decision , but I have still not quite figure out labour ' s position on this . do they support the redeployment of £ 36 billion of HS2 saving in transport across the rest of the country , or do they not ? as ever , we do not know what they stand for , they can not say what they would do , and they would just take Britain back to square one . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder whether you could clarify for the House how we could get some transparency in relation to the question that the Prime Minister fail to answer today about the Business Secretary ' s dispute with the former chair of the Post Office , and about whose recollection of that meeting be in fact correct . have we , as member of the House , any recourse to the minute of that meeting ? the Business Secretary say that at no point be anyone tell to delay compensation payment by an official , by a Minister or by any Government Department . what we have hear this morning — and the Prime Minister fail to answer during Prime Minister ' s question — do not clarify the matter for we . I do not know whether you could help to clarify it , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . it really be not a matter for the Chair , but she have come in very quickly after Prime Minister ' s question to put her point on the record , and I know that it will have be hear by those on the Treasury Bench . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . could you advise I on how we can get to the bottom of exactly what be go on with our canadian trade talk ? on 25 January , Politico break a story about a breakdown in our trade talk with Canada . when I ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade about this , she say : " this be a good opportunity for I to state explicitly that the talk have not break down . " — [ Official Report , 29 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 657 . ] on the Business and Trade Committee , we trust but verify . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will be as surprised as I be to hear the following relay in a letter from the canadian high commissioner : " as far as I be aware , since the U . K . announce its pause on January 25th , there have be neither negotiation nor technical discussion with respect to any of the outstanding issue " . Canada be a NATO ally , a Commonwealth partner and one of our big export market . how do we get to the bottom of whether these trade talk be go on in the Secretary of State ' s mind or happen in real life ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order and for give notice of it . as he know , I be not responsible for the accuracy of Ministers ' statement in the House , but I be sure , again , that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear his remark . as Chair of the Select Committee , he will have further opportunity to pursue the matter directly with the Secretary of State . I be pretty sure that be what he intend to do . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . large number of our constituent have come to lobby Parliament today because the issue of Gaza be so close to their heart . only a limited number be be allow into Westminster Hall , even though there be quite a sizeable amount of space , so many constituent be be force to stand out in the rain . would it be possible to see what could be do to accommodate more in Westminster Hall as they come in and filter on the green card system ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . this be obviously a matter that the House authority will be deal with , but I will ensure that his comment be feed back to see if anything far can be do . I be sure that he will appreciate that large number of people try to gain entrance can inevitably cause some delay , and I be sure we be all sorry about that . as I say , I will feed back his comment . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . later today we will be vote on very sensitive matter that affect the whole House . at the start of that debate , Mr Speaker will no doubt announce which amendment , if any , he will allow to be put to the House . when he be elect , Mr Speaker give a solemn promise that he would publish the advice he get from the Clerk of the House when he make controversial decision . I do not know what he will decide or what his recommendation will be , but could you prevail on Mr Speaker , when he come back to the Chair , to release the advice he be give by the Clerk on whatever decision he come to on the amendment to the SNP motion we be debate this afternoon ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . I be sure that his comment will have be hear and that Mr Speaker will make his decision in due course , with all the comment the hon . Gentleman have raise about publication . I think we will leave it at that . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder if you could give I some advice . my office write to the Home Secretary more than six week ago and we have still not receive a response from he about an issue raise by a constituent . it be become increasingly clear that minister be either wilfully refuse to respond to member of Parliament or simply , rather worryingly , just treat member of Parliament with sheer contempt . what do we do to force Ministers to do their duty and respond appropriately to member of this House ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . this issue have be raise with the Leader of the House at business question and I know she take it very seriously . the hon . Gentleman might like to raise it again on Thursday at business question , but I have confidence that those on the Treasury Bench have hear his comment , have write they down and will feed they back . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will know that yesterday in the House there be an urgent question on border security . later on that afternoon , it become public that the Independent Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration have be sack by the Home Secretary . it be claim that the Home Secretary lose confidence in the Independent Chief Inspector . it be clear from the urgent question yesterday that one of the issue the Chief Inspector be most exercise by be the 15 report he have lodge with the Home Office since April 2023 , which have not be publish . the agreement with the Chief Inspector be that report he submit to the Home Office should be publish within eight week . clearly , a number of those report be well overdue . have you , Madam Deputy Speaker , have any indication from Ministers about whether they be plan to come to the House to make a statement about Mr David Neal and the fact that he be sack yesterday afternoon ? more importantly , what have happen to the 15 report the Independent Chief Inspector have lodge since April last year , many of which be on important issue ? far to that , Madam Deputy Speaker , there be an issue about the Government introduce legislation , which this House be very concerned about , on the Rwanda policy and asylum seeker be move to Rwanda to have their claim process . with the lack of anyone now in the role of the Independent Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration , that will mean there be no independent oversight or scrutiny at a time when a major policy decision will be implement by the Government . the Home Affairs Committee be particularly concern by any delay . we see in the Times a report that it will be six to nine month before an new Independent Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration be appoint . can you advise on the good way forward ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her point of order . she raise a number of point . I have not receive any notification that a statement be forthcoming — she do refer to an urgent question yesterday . I know the right hon . Lady regularly attend business question , and this may be something she might like to press the Leader of the House on . those on the Treasury Bench have hear what she have have to say and will feed it back . I be sure that in her role as Chair of the Home Affairs Committee she may have other mean to pursue the issue she have raise , in particular in respect of report that she may be able to ask for , but she will possibly know more than I about that . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . a year ago tomorrow , I raise with the Prime Minister a really important point about the payment of a fine to the EU of £ 2 . 3 billion . follow that question to he , I write to the Prime Minister ask for an explanation . a year on , I have not have a reply . I would have think it would be in the interest of all in this House to understand how it be that a payment of £ 2 . 3 billion be pay as a fine for late payment to the EU . it be in our interest to understand what happen , so be there any recourse I can take to understand what happen ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . again , I do not have responsibility for answer give . it may well be that he could pursue the matter through further question to the Table Office . again , those on the Treasury Bench will have hear what he have have to say , and I very much hope that they will feed back this rather long list of message to the Government . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker — [ interruption . ] I hope it will be quite a short point of order . [ interruption . ] it will not be quick if people be shout . I ask for some silence , so I can hear the point of order and deal with it quickly . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . on the Treasury Committee , we have be consider the work of UK Government Investments across a range of issue . we have now get to a situation where quite complex decision , which appear to have be refer to at board meeting of the Post Office , be obtuse to we . I wonder , give that the disagreement between Ministers and representative from UKGI who be on the board of the Post Office be very obtuse and hard to unravel , whether you have any advice on how we can bring these important issue to the Floor of the House . the hon . Lady be a senior member of the Treasury Committee . again , we have note what she have say and it will be feed back , but she might like to pursue the issue either through the Treasury Committee , or even perhaps by talk to the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , who I know be look at this at the moment . Motor Vehicles ( Driving Licences ) ( reform ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about licence authorise the driving of motor vehicle of certain class ; and for connected purpose . the principal purpose of the Bill be to reform regulation 5 ( 2 ) of the Motor Vehicles ( Driving Licences ) Regulations 1999 . these be EU rule that be put into UK law and reduce the number of vehicle that could be drive after pass a general motoring licence test . so - call grandfather right be maintain for people like I who have pass their driving test prior to 1997 to continue to be able to drive certain category of vehicle , include minibus and medium - sized good vehicle which fall under the category d1 and C1 . in particular , I be seek reform to our driving licence so that the C1 and D1 category be automatically give to everybody who have pass a driving test for a car , in the same way that happen for those of we who pass our test before 1997 . this opportunity — a Brexit bonus — to reform drive licence regulation that be put in place thank to our membership of the EU be motivate by my intention to , first , support rural community and , secondly , unlock economic growth opportunity . I recently raise this issue in the House in a debate on 31 January and give notice then of my intention to seek to change the law . other hon . member voice their support for a change , focus in particular on community transport and the d1 category . I do not seek to repeat everything I say in that debate , but since then the Community Transport Association and other have contact I to voice their full support for a change in the law . this whole issue first come to my attention when I visit Halesworth Area Community Transport in my constituency and be tell about its challenge in get more driver . to drive a van or minibus for that non - for - profit organisation , as it then be , people have to pay between £ 2 , 000 and £ 3 , 000 to do a course and pass a test to acquire a d1 licence , due to the regulation . the problem be reinforce when I visit the Voluntary Help Centre in Southwold , where I be tell a similar story . when I go to see the then Transport Minister , I be tell that they be EU regulation and that there be absolutely no way we could change they for as long as we be part of the EU . the Community Transport Association have give I further example , include Bexhill Community Bus , which state : " we be a small Community Bus operator , and we rely on person with d1 on their licence . we be face a future when Cat B driver lose the automatic right to drive a mini bus , and would face the expense of train all new volunteer driver . " change live together , an organisation in Cheshire that support a change in the law , say : " this be very much need , and we be recruit from a small pool of people every year and it be cause real problem across our area . " this issue be particularly challenge for community transport association that help people with disability in their daily life . that be recognise in the Government ' s national disability strategy , and there be a commitment from the Department for Transport to help tackle shortage in community transport driver . it be clear that there be a real need for reform in order to make it easy to acquire a d1 licence to support community transport venture and our rural community , and to avoid lose such service or turn they into exclusively pay service . I turn to the benefit of reform C1 licence , which be for medium - sized good vehicle , not heavy good vehicle . these be the kind of vehicle use to do a lot of local delivery job , but the licence also apply to horse box and vehicle such as ambulance . open up this category — perhaps with some condition , such as a minimum age of 25 or have hold a drive licence for two or more year — would provide an instant economic boost , without a cost to the Government , and help productivity in the supply chain . in recent year , we have experience a shortage of HGV driver due to a number of factor , particularly during covid . one of the reason why there have be a shortage be that HGV driver start switch to job use medium - sized vehicle , for which they be automatically qualified by hold an hgv licence . the Department introduce some sensible , temporary measure to help address the shortage . as an aside , the cost of acquire a c1 licence be typically between £ 2 , 000 and £ 3 , 000 , which be similar to the d1 licence . apprenticeship course be available for HGV drive qualification , allow business to use their apprenticeship levy funding , but there be not one for secure a c1 drive licence . I have be inform that previous attempt to secure one have be reject , as it be not consider that a 12 - month course and practical experience be need to gain the qualification . within Government , I try to persuade the Department for Transport to look at this opportunity , and I be delighted when it issue a call for evidence in August 2022 . as the then Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Karl McCartney ) , write in its foreword : " the licensing improvement " — those regard HGV driver , to which I refer early — " be achievable partly due to the fact that we have leave the European Union and have the freedom to change our legislation to improve our testing and licensing regime … the call for evidence include seek evidence on the economic benefit of widen the recruitment pool for medium - sized good vehicle and minibus driver , which may attract more people to the industry and support economic growth by far strengthen our supply chain . " there be exceptionally strong support for the change to both C1 and d1 licence , and I particularly commend the submission make by the Community Transport Association on d1 licence . business also give very strong support to the c1 change , cite significant economic advantage . the reason give include that it would be much more efficient to run a single trip in a 4 . 6 - tonne van than to be restrict to multiple trip , as it would require few journey to transport the good . in essence , it would mean few vehicle on the road and few trip . that be good news for the economy and for the environment . in the same summary , though , it be pretty clear that the Department do not want to make any change , which disappoint I . but as be self - evident , I have not give up , as I think these simple change would both bring economic growth and be hugely beneficial for rural community . I be aware that the East of England Ambulance Service be hinder in get new driver to drive ambulance due to the delay in C1 assessment , despite their already undertake advanced driver training — the blue and two , as it be know — for emergency vehicle . I be pleased to say that that have be rectify , but there be a barrier . far , while I be in the mood for sensible reform through this Bill , we should consider the economic benefit of extend the lifetime of drive licence , which , due to EU law , be currently 10 year for a car and five year for several other vehicle , include horse box . that feel unnecessarily burdensome and a change would benefit not only in the cost of processing , but in the cost to driver across the country . I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) be listen hard to these proposal for reform , and I welcome the discussion we have have . I suggest to the Government that such reform would be exceptionally popular with community transport association across the country , and with business large and small . I understand the issue around safety . drive test have become considerably more difficult since I pass my test , but I think there be a way to address some of the concern raise by certain campaign group . I be aware that the Government sign up to the Vienna convention in 2018 , although these regulation be already in place and , indeed , we have apply various reservation to the convention so as not to disrupt our common - sense practice in this country . for instance , we do not have to wait for the green light to cross the road at a pedestrian crossing when no traffic be come in either direction , which , as we know , be a criminal offence in other country in Europe . I believe that this be a real opportunity to adopt some sensible approach that , as I say , would be welcome across the House . the Bill would be a Brexit bonus , increase community transport and remove an unnecessary , costly barrier for business . recognise the strengthening of the drive test in the past 25 year , we should have the confidence to back british driver with british rule . I would like to work with the Government during the passage of the Bill to a second reading , and I commend it to the House . before I call Sir Chris Bryant , may I gently remind he that he have to give a speech in opposition to the Bill ? I take it that the hon . Gentleman wish to speak in opposition . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be very grateful for your remind I that I have to speak in opposition to the legislation , but give that the Government themselves oppose the Bill , as the right hon . Member have just point out , I presume that the Government will be oppose it as well this afternoon . while I commend the right hon . Lady for her diligence as a Back Bencher in introduce a series of ten - minute rule Bills over the last year — for instance , last year she introduce the Schools ( Gender and Parental Rights ) Bill , which fall at the first hurdle because it do not get a second reading , with 40 people vote no and 34 vote aye — we have the same right to oppose her Bill today if we think that it be not appropriate , relevant or necessary . she refer to the fact that she consider this to be — [ interruption . ] order . other Members may not wish to hear the hon . Gentleman , but I do , and I need to know whether he be in order . if hon . member want to have private conversation , it would be helpful if they could either have they outside or keep quiet . I be grateful , Mr Deputy Speaker . my main objection to the Bill be that the right hon . Lady seek to make this a " Brexit bonus " , as she refer to it . I disagree with that very concept , because I believe that regulatory convergence , rather than regulatory divergence , be more useful both so that british driver know where they stand in this country and other country in Europe , and so that european driver be able to drive in the UK . of course , there be other area where there might be Brexit bonus , because we might trade with other country elsewhere in the world , but when it come to drive licence specifically , the only other country that we be likely to deal with be those within the European Union . I believe — I think the Government do too , because so far the Department for Transport have refuse to budge in the direction that the right hon . Lady suggest — that this be an inappropriate Bill that would do harm rather than good . it would not lead to great safety , but actually imperil safety in the UK . we sign up to the Vienna convention in 2018 . exemption be allow under the Vienna convention . in a previous speech on this matter , the right hon . Lady point out that one of the exemption that we have introduce relate to when you can cross the road in the UK when a traffic light seem to suggest that you can not . under the Vienna convention , we would not normally be able to do that but we have be able to amend it . so there be an argument , which the right hon . Lady have not make , that this legislation be not necessary to achieve the end that she be try to achieve . the right hon . Lady also refer to the fee of between £ 2 , 000 and £ 3 , 000 . she make the legitimate point that some charity would like to be able to use minibus which , when they be fully load , go over the 3 . 5 - tonne limit , and that the £ 2 , 000 to £ 3 , 000 fee be a significant one that can impede they in do the work that we all want they to do . however , that matter be in the power of Government without any need for legislation . a further point be that the Government have consult on this measure , as the right hon . Lady say , but have decide not to proceed . it would be useful if the Government be able to tell we why they have not choose to proceed . my suspicion be that it be because they believe that this measure would not be safe . the right hon . Lady say that she want to extend the length of time for which a licence be provide . that would clearly be in direct contravention of the Vienna convention . presently it be set at 10 year , and I personally think that that be the safe way to ensure that every driver on the road in this country have a valid driving licence that be up to date and have the correct address on it , and that the person be properly insure . I be sure many of we have come across case in our constituency in which people have be financially disadvantaged because the crash they be involve in be with somebody who do not have a proper driving licence , perhaps because it be out of date and they be not properly insure . the right hon . Lady ' s measure would drive a coach and horse through that , if you will forgive the pun , Mr Deputy Speaker . another issue be that in recent year we have have a significant problem with get enough HGV driver in the UK . I believe that this measure would make that substantially more difficult , add cost to business up and down the country . it would make it more difficult because many of the present hgv driver on british road be not british ; they be of other nationality . if we have a separate set of regulation for the UK — completely separate from the rest of the European Union — it would make it more difficult for business to do their work and create an additional layer of regulatory burden , which be a cost to business . my final point be that there be 78 private member ' bill list on the Order Paper that will be call for Second Reading on 23 February , 1 March , 15 March or 22 March , all of which be before the final date for call a general election on 2 May . I do not think that a single one of they will enter the statute book . there be actually 26 in the name of member call Christopher , and I feel rather leave out that not one of they come from myself . the serious point be that we keep put more Bills on to the Order Paper but not put they on to the statute book , because we still have a system for ten - minute rule Bills and private Members ' Bills that be completely and utterly bust . the Procedure Committee have say time and again that we be bring the whole process into disrepute , and that be why we should not be add yet another ten - minute rule Bill to the Order Paper when we have no intention of put it on the statute book . I therefore urge all hon . member to vote against the measure today . question put ( Standing Order no . 23 ) . the House proceed to a Division . will the Serjeant at arm investigate the delay in the No Lobby ? Nickie Aiken Sarah Atherton Bob Blackman Karen Bradley Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Fiona Bruce Gregory Campbell Miriam Cates Brendan Clarke - Smith Therese Coffey Virginia Crosbie James davy Sarah Dines Jeffrey M . Donaldson Steve Double David Duguid Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Kevin Foster Liam Fox Paul Girvan Chris Green James Grundy John Hayes Philip Hollobone Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Andrew Jones Greg Knight Edward Leigh Tim Loughton Angus MacNeil Kit Malthouse Karl McCartney Stephen Metcalfe Damien Moore Lia Nici Ian Paisley Jnr will Quince Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Gary Sambrook Jim Shannon Greg Smith Iain Stewart Desmond Swayne Derek Thomas Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle John Whittingdale Flick Drummond Justin Tomlinson Diane Abbott Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Clive Betts Ben Bradshaw Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Dan Carden Feryal Clark Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Florence Eshalomi Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Margaret Greenwood Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Dan Jarvis Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Andy McDonald Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Grahame Morris James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Toby Perkins Yasmin Qureshi Steve Reed Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jo Stevens Mark Tami Sam Tarry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Catherine West Matt Western Nadia Whittome Jeff Smith Christian Wakeford the House have divide : Ayes 63 , Noes 81 . question accordingly negative . opposition Day - [ 5th Allotted Day ] Ceasefire in Gaza we now come to the Scottish National party motion on Gaza . I understand that the second motion on the Order Paper will not be move today . this be a highly sensitive subject , on which feeling be run high , in the House , in the nation and throughout the world . I think it be important on this occasion that the House be able to consider the wide possible range of option . I have therefore decide to select the amendment both in the name of the Prime Minister and in the name of the Leader of the Opposition . because the operation of Standing Order No . 31 would prevent another amendment from be move after the Government have move their amendment , I will , exceptionally , call the Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson to move their amendment at the beginning of the debate , once the SNP spokesperson have move their motion . at the end of the debate , the House will have an opportunity to take a decision on the official Opposition amendment . if that be agree to , there will be a final question on the main motion , as amend . if the official opposition amendment be not agree to , I will call the Minister to move the Government amendment formally . that will engage the — [ interruption . ] order . I be go to finish . that will engage the provision of Standing Order No . 31 , so the next vote will be on the original word in the SNP motion . if that be not agree to , the House will have the opportunity to vote on the Government amendment . proceed in this way will allow a vote to take place , potentially , on the proposal from each of the three main party . I can inform the House — [ interruption . ] just let I finish . I can inform the House that there be a precedent for an official opposition spokesperson be call second in the debate and move an amendment before — [ interruption . ] order . do somebody want to leave ? I be determined to finish . I can inform the House that there be a precedent for an official opposition spokesperson be call second in the debate and move an amendment , before a Minister have be call to speak in the debate . in that circumstance , however , no Government amendment have be table . I should also inform the House that the Clerk of the House will be place in the Library a letter to I about today ' s proceeding . I have ask for that letter to be make available in the Vote Office as soon as possible . finally , I should tell the House that in my opinion the operation of Standing Order No . 31 , which govern the way amendment to Opposition day motion be deal with , reflect an outdated approach — [ interruption . ] order . member will be go and not be vote — bring back Bercow ! that be the first one to leave , then . bring back Bercow ! if you want to , do it ! finally , I should tell the House that in my opinion the operation of Standing Order No . 31 , which govern the way amendment to Opposition day motion be deal with , reflect an outdated approach that restrict the option that can be put to the House . it be my intention to ask the Procedure Committee to consider its operation . I now call Brendan o ' Hara to move the motion . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I appreciate what you have outline , but I seek your advice , because obviously I have take advice from the Clerks . this be the SNP ' s Opposition day , and the purpose of an Opposition day be for our party to have the ability to put forward our business . we have already have a significant delay to the moving of this motion , which have significant interest , to the extent that we have drop our second motion . now , we appear to be do thing completely in a way that they have never be do before . may I ask for your advice : what be the point of an Opposition day if it be go to be do like this ? [ applause . ] let I just say that I think you will want to vote at some point , and clapping be not go to assist it . rise — a point of order have be raise by the SNP Chief Whip . as I say , I have make a judgment on a precedent — it have be do before . I have view it in that way , and that be my ruling . I be go to stand by the ruling , and I be not take any more point of order . I call Brendan o ' Hara . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I be not take any more point of order , Mr Linden . I call Brendan o ' Hara . I beg to move , that this House call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and Israel ; note with shock and distress that the death toll have now rise beyond 28 , 000 , the vast majority of whom be woman and child ; further note that there be currently 1 . 5 million Palestinians shelter in Rafah , 610 , 000 of whom be child ; also note that they have nowhere else to go ; condemn any military assault on what be now the large refugee camp in the world ; further call for the immediate release of all hostage take by Hamas and an end to the collective punishment of the palestinian people ; and recognise that the only way to stop the slaughter of innocent civilian be to press for a ceasefire now . our motion call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , from all combatant . I wish to put on record , once again , our unequivocal condemnation of the Hamas attack of 7 October , and to repeat our call both for the immediate release of all the hostage and for see those involve in those atrocity call to account for their action . the war in Gaza be one of the great define moment of our time , yet , until today , this House have not be give the opportunity to debate both the unfold human catastrophe and the wide implication for regional and global stability . nor have we have the opportunity to debate the urgent and press need for an immediate ceasefire , as an essential first step in find a lasting and just peace . no one would deny that Israel have the right to defend itself — every country have that right . what no country have the right to do , however , be lie siege to a civilian population , carpet - bomb densely inhabit area , drive people from their home , erase an entire civilian infrastructure , and impose a collective punishment involve the cutting off of water , electricity , food , and medicine from civilian . and no country , regardless of who it be , can , in the name of self - defence , kill civilian at such a pace , and on such a scale , that in just 16 week almost 30 , 000 be know to have die , with a further 80 , 000 injure . we can not allow the core principle of self - defence to be so ruthlessly exploit and manipulate in order to legitimise the slaughter of innocent civilian . if we do that , what hope be there for the future of the international rule - base order , an order create to protect people from atrocity , not to be use as a smokescreen to hide the execution of they ? if we accept what Israel be do in Gaza as the new norm — as the new accept standard of self - defence — we undermine that core principle , which be mean to protect and defend we . therefore we can not accept that what be happen now be self - defence , because of the precedent that it will set . I have no doubt that that think contribute to the United States issue its clear warning yet to Netanyahu that it would not support his propose ground offensive in Rafah . this be why the UN Security Council be currently debate a ceasefire as we speak today , and even the US have recognise that a ceasefire must happen for a peaceful political solution . of course , that do not go nearly far enough , but it do show that thing be move , opinion be change and the guarantee that Israel have come to rely on be gradually withdraw . I think that , at the moment , very few people , not only in this House but across the country , would differ from the sentiment be express by the Scottish National party spokesperson . each night , we all watch the torture of the people in Gaza with horror , and we remember every morning the pain be feel by the family whose loved one be be hold hostage . but do the hon . Member not agree that we would serve their cause , and ourselves in this place , so much well if we build a consensus behind an opinion today , rather than indulge in petty party politic that help no one ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . I be not quite sure what she mean about petty party politic . the behaviour that we have see today have be pretty petty , but we be all about consensus . if there be anything that can build a consensus for peace , which have to be base around peace , justice and an immediate ceasefire , then we will be there . I be very grateful to the hon . member for give way . I will , if I may , highlight something that I think be more important than some of the conversation that we have have up to this moment . on Monday , the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights release a statement say that UN expert have uncover that israeli force in Gaza and the west bank be be accuse of egregious human right abuse , include arbitrary detention , extrajudicial killing and sexual violence , include rape . the israeli Government , of course , have dismiss this without any investigation . do the hon . Member agree that this Government should be push hard for a proper investigation for people to be hold to account for these kind of gross human right abuse ? I absolutely agree with the hon . member . it be vital to say that , whether it be a perceive ally or a perceive foe , an egregious breach of human right be an egregious breach of human right and should be take as exactly that and investigate without fear or favour . one thing that have define this House over the past couple of year have be the unity over Ukraine , and it have be really important that all of we , from all part of the House , have stand together against Putin . may I appeal to my hon . friend to reflect on what be require of all of we today ? the issue be one of principle for those who be face famine and death in Gaza . it be important that all of we across this House show the appropriate leadership , come together and speak up against the human right abuse that be take place , and woe betide any of we who fail to show that leadership . now be the time — today be the time — for this House to come together and stand up for those in Palestine who need our support . I agree with my right hon . friend . we all have a part to play in bring peace and save innocent life , so I be somewhat surprised to hear the shadow Foreign Secretary on the radio on Sunday seemingly dismiss and downplay the importance of this debate , say : " it ' s not this vote that will bring about a ceasefire . " of course , he be right . vote for an immediate ceasefire today will not by itself bring about an end to the slaughter , but the impact , and the impact on the optic , of this Parliament , hitherto one of Israel ' s staunch ally , say that enough be enough , and call for an immediate ceasefire , would be enormous . while not in and of itself bring about a ceasefire , support for this motion would far remove that ever - thin veil of legitimacy that the UK ' s continued support give to Israel ' s merciless war in Gaza . it would also show the beleaguered and battered people of Palestine that we care and we have not forget they . call for an immediate ceasefire would be a pivotal moment in the campaign to stop UK arm sale to Israel . as a south african Foreign Minister say last week , the decision to stop the fighting in Gaza be in the hand of the country that supply Israel with its weapon . who know , it might also help some of the UK ' s political establishment and those seek to aspire to their position to locate their moral compass . the hon . member refer to the way of stop the conflict . do he not agree with I that the only way — the most certain way — of end this conflict be for Hamas to release the hostage , include a nine - month - old baby who be kidnap by Hamas ? if Hamas be to release the hostage straight away , that would be a sure - fire way of achieve a ceasefire , and that be what we should be talk about . I think the very first sentence that I say be that we utterly condemn the Hamas attack and we implore they to release the hostage , but there have to be a pathway to reach that . when the shadow Foreign Secretary say that the vote today would not bring about a ceasefire , he be right , but to try to downplay the importance of the motion do not serve he well . I suspect that , as these moment do not come around very often , he understand only too well the importance of tonight ' s vote . it be moment like these that shape the ethical identity of a country . it be the decision that we take now that will reverberate down the decade , and they will define who we be and what we stand for . that be why we be call so clearly and unambiguously for an immediate ceasefire . anything else pre - suppose that there can be a military solution to this conflict . any other form of word threaten to give credence to the idea that Israel ' s deploy its massive military capacity in Gaza will somehow be enough to destroy Hamas . in reality , as everyone know and as history tell we , the only possible solution to this crisis be a political solution . I could understand the hon . Gentleman ' s argument well if he be talk about what the Americans seem to call a temporary ceasefire to see whether more hostage could be release , but he appear to be call for an unconditional ceasefire — I see people nod — which would leave all the hostage at the mercy of Hamas . do that not put Israel in the position where previously it have have to release 1 , 000 people who have be criminally convict in order to get one soldier back ? indeed , one of the people Israel release be the person who organise the Hamas atrocity on 7 October . I thank the right hon . member for that intervention . I be absolutely clear that there have to be a roadway — a path — towards peace , and that have to start with an immediate ceasefire . if it do not , there be no pathway . I will address directly the issue of humanitarian pause in a moment . when the SNP last call for a vote on the ceasefire on 15 November , the death toll in Gaza stand at 11 , 320 — already a heartbreaking number of people kill . just yesterday , John Hopkins University and the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine release their analysis , which show that if this conflict continue on the same trajectory there will be between 58 , 000 and 75 , 000 additional civilian palestinian death in the next six month , so we know categorically what the consequence of inaction will be . no one can claim in the future that they do not know , or that they do not understand the consequence of what they be do tonight . do my hon . friend agree that , while some rule may be more malleable than other , the rule of international law be very clear on self - defence : the use of self - defence must be proportionate , and by any view , 30 , 000 civilian dead , the majority of whom be woman and child , be excessive and not a proportionate use of force . my hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right . if we accept Israel ' s response as the new norm , the danger that everybody across the world , regardless of their circumstance , will be put in be terrify . it be a terrifying example to set , and a terrifying precedent that should worry we all . I thank she for that intervention . to address the point make by the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , no one can argue with any credibility for what they use to call , and some people still do call , " humanitarian pause " — the convoluted idea of organise fix - term pause in the killing that would allow emergency aid into Gaza , only for the carnage to resume at a prearrange date and time . that should be see for what it always be : a smokescreen for politician to hide behind while wait to see in which direction the wind of public opinion will blow . rise — rise — well , we have see the way public opinion be blow , across the world and here in the UK , with million take to the street , and poll show 75 % - plus support for an immediate ceasefire . the harsh reality be that the Government , have expend so much political and diplomatic capital on defend and justify Israel ' s prosecution of this war , now find themselves stick on the wrong side of global opinion . [ interruption . ] consequently , the UK ' s international reputation have be so diminish that when the process of find a just , last peace in the region begin , the UK will struggle to play a meaningful part in it . [ interruption . ] if the government can not see the long - term damage that they be do , it be up to this House to tell they by demand an immediate ceasefire . an immediate ceasefire have already be endorse by Pope Francis , the Archbishop of Canterbury , the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland , the Archbishop of York , Scotland ' s catholic bishop , the catholic bishop ' conference of England and Wales , the Church of England ' s House of Bishops , the Muslim Council of Britain , the Quakers , the leader of the Methodists and the United Reformed Church , the Lutheran World Federation , the UN Secretary - General , the UN General Assembly President , UNICEF , the World Food Programme , the World Health Organisation , save the Children , Amnesty , M é decin Sans Fronti è re , Oxfam , ActionAid , the International Rescue Committee , Action against Hunger , the Co - operative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere , medical aid for Palestinians , the Council for arab - british Understanding , the Balfour Project , Islamic Relief , christian aid , War on Want , the Carter Centre , War Child , unite the union , Unison , the King Centre , World Vision , WaterAid , Tearfund , Street Child , Start Network , Peace Direct , Mercy Corps , CIVICUS , and score and score more church , non - governmental organisation , charity and individual who have see Israel completely abandon international humanitarian law by impose collective punishment on a defenceless civilian population . [ interruption . ] in just 16 week , an estimate 18 , 000 palestinian child have be leave without a single living relative . the only way we can ensure a permanent end to the cycle of violence be by facilitate the establishment of a sovereign palestinian state alongside Israel . the main blocker to that be Prime Minister Netanyahu , who have double down on his opposition to an independent palestinian state . do the hon . Member agree that the UK must show strong opposition to Netanyahu ' s plan by unilaterally recognise the state of Palestine as a matter of urgency ? I could not agree more with the hon . member . the United Kingdom have show a dereliction of duty towards the Palestinians . the SNP have be very supportive , and will continue to be supportive , of a palestinian state . all the organisation , individual and church that I list will not ignore the evidence of their own eye . nor will they turn a deaf ear to the cry of suffer Palestinians . neither should we . the palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish once write that " in silence we become accomplice , but … when we speak every word have the power to change the world . " as I bring my remark to a close , I want to share with the House the word of those be force to live through this hell every single day . thirty - year - old Islam Harb lose three of his four child , along with his mother , two of his sister and both his brother when a missile hit their home . Islam say : " my family spend day try to dig the remain of the dead out of the rubble . the body of my brother Khalil be find 200 m away from the house due to the power of the strike , in piece . my child ' s small body be tear to piece . " his survive sister , Ahlam , add : " my brother Mohammed … be only recognize by his hair ; nothing be leave of my brother Khalil except his hand " . thirty - year - old Ahmad Nasman , a physiotherapist in Gaza , lose his wife and their three child , aged five , four , and just three month , along with both of his parent and his sister when a missile hit their home . he say it take he four day to retrieve the body of his baby daughter ayla from the rubble ; she be only recognise by the clothe she be wear . the same blast decapitate his five - year - old daughter , Arwa . he say : " when the war start , I have only one mission in my life , to protect my child . I wish I be with they when the house be hit … my body survive but my spirit die with my child , it be crush under the rubble with they . " that be why tonight really matter . that be why it will be time like these for which we be all remember . we will be remember for what we do , or for what we choose not to do . decade hence , people will say to we , " you be there , " and they will ask we , " what do you do ? " some will have to say that they choose to engage in a debate on semantic over " sustainable " or " humanitarian " pause , while other will say that they choose to give Netanyahu both the weapon and the political cover that he require to prosecute his relentless war . but some of we in this House will be able to say that when we see 30 , 000 innocent people kill , when we see almost 100 , 000 innocent people injure , when we see ten of thousand of traumatise child with physical and mental damage that will last for the rest of their life , when we see 2 million people displace from their home , when we see refugee camp bomb , when we see hundred of journalist kill , when we see hospital reduce to rubble , when we see place of worship and the people shelter in they attack , and when we see ambulance that have be send to rescue child be hit by missile , with those rescue child still inside — at that point , we will say that we choose to do everything that we possibly could to make it stop . we will also say that we choose to listen . we listen to the International Court of Justice when it determine that there be plausible ground that Israel be in the process of commit genocide . we listen to the anguished plea of innocent Palestinians beg for our help to make it stop . we listen to the anger of million of people from across these island . and then we use our immensely privileged position as member of this House to demand an immediate ceasefire . by support the SNP ' s motion call for that immediate ceasefire , this House can put itself on the side of peace , it can put itself on the side of justice , it can put itself on the side of the people , and it can put itself on the right side of history . [ applause . ] order . can I just say to those member clap — it ' s a new rule ! I have a list and I can rule who speak when . we need to hear a debate , not a debating society . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I beg to move amendment ( a ) , to leave out from " House " to end and add " believe that an israeli ground offensive in Rafah risk catastrophic humanitarian consequence and therefore must not take place ; note the intolerable loss of palestinian life , the majority be woman and child ; condemn the terrorism of Hamas who continue to hold hostage ; support Australia , Canada and New Zealand ' s call for Hamas to release and return all hostage and for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire , which mean an immediate stop to the fighting and a ceasefire that last and be observe by all side , note that Israel can not be expect to cease fight if Hamas continue with violence and that Israelis have the right to the assurance that the horror of 7 October 2023 can not happen again ; therefore support diplomatic mediation effort to achieve a last ceasefire ; demand that rapid and unimpeded humanitarian relief be provide in Gaza ; far demand an end to settlement expansion and violence ; urge Israel to comply with the International Court of Justice ' s provisional measure ; call for the UN Security Council to meet urgently ; and urge all international partner to work together to establish a diplomatic process to deliver the peace of a two - state solution , with a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable palestinian state , include work with international partner to recognise a palestinian state as a contribution to rather than outcome of that process , because statehood be the inalienable right of the palestinian people and not in the gift of any neighbour . " there be time when this House can come together with clarity and a unity of purpose , and I hope that this can be one of those moment . it be with pain and sadness that this House gather today — the pain and sadness of war that have go on too long . it be now 137 day since the appalling 7 October massacre , and since that day , the killing have go on . flatten city , ransack kibbutzim , teem refugee camp , hostage in chain — we have see it all on our tv and phone screen . a ground offensive in Rafah would be a humanitarian disaster , a moral catastrophe and a strategic mistake . it must not happen . that be our position , it be the position of the European Union , it be the position of our friend in the arab world , and it be the position of our five Eyes partner in Australia , Canada and New Zealand . we must not just avert a ground invasion of Rafah , essential though that be ; all violence against civilian must now stop . that be why Labour be say unequivocally that we need an immediate humanitarian ceasefire to end the bloodshed and the suffering . it be important that we try to come out of this debate not only with the House united , but with the United Kingdom in line with international partner . if the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) have give way , I would have say to he that although the leader of the SNP , the hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , speak during Prime Minister ' s question about be in line with the international community , it be actually Labour ' s amendment that would put we in line with international partner . the SNP motion put we outside the space in which the vast majority of the international community be . I be grateful to my hon . friend . this be a moment when the whole House can come together . let we be clear , whether from the Government Benches or the Opposition Benches , that we all agree that the time for a ceasefire have come , to end the bloodshed and suffering , and to allow a sustained effort to salvage the hope of a two - state solution . there be three motion before we today . only one can be support by all side . we all want to see the fighting stop . we can not begin to imagine the horror of what will happen if Israel go into Rafah . the problem , as I think we can all imagine , be that Israel might ignore international opinion and do just that . can we start to think about what action we will take — what sanction we will propose — against Israel if it do that ? there have to be consequence for Israel if it behave in that way , completely contrary to all international opinion . my hon . friend know that the UN be meet to discuss those very issue . I think we in this Chamber can all agree that , be that to happen , particularly over Ramadan , as be be indicate at the moment by the israeli Government , it would be a catastrophic mistake . labour support an immediate humanitarian ceasefire , a stop to fighting by both side now , the release of hostage , a surge of aid into Gaza , and a two - state solution . I hear what the right hon . Gentleman be say about a humanitarian pause — Ceasefire . or about a humanitarian ceasefire and humanitarian effort in Gaza . how do he feel when the Leader of the opposition say publicly that Israel have the right to withhold power and water from the people of Gaza ? one hundred and thirty - seven day into this crisis , I say to the hon . Gentleman , have be in this House for almost 24 year , that this be the moment to lift the tone , not low it . let I turn to the SNP motion . it express our common desire for the fighting and the suffering to stop , but as draft — and I listen to the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) — it do not address how the fighting will not restart . it call for an end to the war , but it do not lay out a path to a sustainable peace . it do not fully explain how a last ceasefire can be achieve , and it make no mention of a two - state solution or palestinian statehood . it do not reference the ICJ ruling and the need for its full implementation . rise — I will give way in a moment . frankly , colleague , the SNP motion appear one side . for any ceasefire to work , it must , by necessity , be observe by both side , or it be not a ceasefire . that be why we be clear that Israel can not be expect to cease fight if Hamas continue with violence . Israelis have the right to the assurance that the horror of 7 October can not happen again . I have no doubt that the SNP agree with those sentiment — I hear they in the speech of the hon . member for Argyll and Bute — so it should vote for the Labour amendment . I be listen closely to the right hon . Gentleman . the problem be that we in this House do not have operational control over the combatant . this war will end when both side be exhausted , decide that they want it to end , and lie down their arm . I listen to the SNP spokesman , the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) . he read out a very long charge sheet against Israel , but at the end of the day , Hamas be use their own people — man , woman and child — as human shield , and they know what they be do . that be why I say that a ceasefire , by necessity , mean both side . hon . member should be very careful not to vote for the appearance of this House take one side , however concerned we be about the loss of innocent life . the right hon . Gentleman be talk about a permanent ceasefire . clearly , that be what we all want — we need peace in the region — but he can not demand an immediate ceasefire and also that the ceasefire must be permanent , because we can not guarantee that . surely , if the right hon . Gentleman want it to be a permanent ceasefire , that allow the carnage to continue and Gaza to be wipe from the map . let I be clear : the Labour party be call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire . we have be absolutely clear that when that ceasefire come , we do not want to see the fight restart — I have be crystal clear about that position . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give way , and for the position he be now adopt around an immediate ceasefire — I think there be more cohesion in this House today than we be show the public . there be still some people in this House who be demand that a ceasefire have to be permanent . I do not like make a comparison to our own peace process , but the basic principle be the same . we can not guarantee the permanence of a ceasefire : we work for a ceasefire and then work to make it permanent , so some people ' s bar be too high . if they listen to what the public be say and watch the tv screen , people be die today . we have to call for an immediate ceasefire right now , and I thank the right hon . member for take that position . I encourage all member to support any opportunity to vote for an immediate ceasefire tonight . the hon . Gentleman remind this House of the seriousness of the issue before we : not just the ceasefire , but the long yard and road to peace . that be why in Labour ' s motion , we talk about compliance with the International Court of Justice ' s ruling and international law , and about palestinian recognition on the road to the two - state solution . we be also absolutely clear that we should do nothing in this Chamber that cut across the hard work of arab partner , EU partner , the United States and our five Eyes ally that be in the room try to broker that peace . we on the Opposition Benches say that with some humbleness , because neither of our party be in the room . the shadow Minister have talk about how the SNP ' s motion do not contain any plan for a long - last peace after an immediate ceasefire . I therefore want to know why the labour motion include a caveat that note that " Israel can not be expect to cease fight if Hamas continue with violence " . Hamas be not the people of Palestine , so why be that line in the Labour amendment ? the hon . Lady be as educate as I be . she understand that a ceasefire take two side , so it be crystal clear that if we expect Israel to lay down its arm , we must ask Hamas to do the same . I be very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for give way , and I be very pleased to hear he make the point that any ceasefire have to be agree and commit to by both side . unfortunately , though , there be a ceasefire on 6 October , which be break by Hamas . the previous ceasefire at the end of last year be also break by Hamas , so why do the right hon . Gentleman have any faith that if a ceasefire be agree now , Hamas would stick to it ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point , but let we be clear : the last pause come before there have be any release of any hostage . it come at a point when very little humanitarian aid be go into Gaza , and it be because of that pause that we see some hostage release — Hamas do stop the rocket fire at that point . as I say , we be all clear that we need an immediate humanitarian ceasefire . the humanitarian situation self - evidently need the fighting to stop , but it be also our belief that if we get that ceasefire , we will see more hostage release . we be listen to what hostage family in Israel be themselves say . rise — I will make a little progress before take further intervention . turn to the Government ' s amendment , again , there be element that we agree with , but there be a serious omission : its failure to call for a ceasefire that be immediate . I do not believe that the gap be unbridgeable — and I be look forward to listen to the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) when he get to his foot . the Foreign Secretary say that he want the fighting to stop now , mirror my language and that of the Leader of the Opposition . throughout this war , the Government have follow we . we call for violent west bank settler to be sanction on 6 November , and again on 9 November — the Government move on 14 December . for two year since Boris Johnson ' s appalling letter , we have be call for the Government to accept the International Criminal Court ' s jurisdiction over the conduct of all party in the occupied Palestinian Territories — again , the Government move on 14 December to do just that . for a decade the Labour party have support the recognition of the palestinian state , as express in our motion — early this month , the Foreign Secretary move to our position . therefore , we once again ask the Government to reflect on the mood of the House . we ask Conservative Members to accept the language in our amendment , so that we can speak together with one voice . I say that with all seriousness . we all know that while we can debate these issue in this House , their effect on the ground be something else entirely . however , if the UK Parliament can speak with one voice on this great of issue , perhaps we can genuinely make a difference . I have be listen very carefully to the way in which the right hon . Gentleman have be prosecute the merit of each of the different amendment . I would point out that there be a liberal Democrat amendment that answer positively all of the point that have be make so far , but it be not select for debate , which I feel be a shame . I will be encourage my party to vote for all amendment that push the cause of peace . he mention how this debate will be see on the ground . unfortunately , after today , it be likely that the headline from Parliament will be that an immediate ceasefire be reject because of a lack of co - ordination , particularly between the Opposition Benches . do he agree that we should and could have do well ? I have huge respect for the hon . Lady . since 7 October , she and I have be in Bahrain together , meet with middle east leader to talk about these very issue . the whole point of Labour ' s amendment be to give this House the opportunity to come together , and her poignant message to this House a few week ago be a reason why this be the moment to do so . I thank my right hon . friend for give way , and of course I be very pleased to be support an immediate humanitarian ceasefire and the recognition of Palestine . when that desperately need ceasefire happen , do he agree that the Government need to do everything they can to urgently ramp up the amount of aid go into Gaza , to try to save more life ? my hon . friend raise the central reason why we be call for that immediate humanitarian ceasefire at this moment . we all know that before this crisis about 500 truck a day be get in , and today that figure be less than 95 . starvation be widespread and medical aid be hard to come by . the last hospital be close , and — this be personal to I , because one of my child be adopt — there be now 17 , 000 young people in Gaza who be orphan . that be horrendous . it be why the seriousness of this debate demand that we all act with one voice . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that there need to be an immediate humanitarian ceasefire , but that need to be in accordance with a clear political framework for a two - state solution , because otherwise we may have the same problem six month or a year down the line . People outside be feed up with politician — with Prime Ministers and Leaders of the opposition — say that they want a two - state solution but not clarify what that be . look at Labour ' s amendment , do he now agree with I and other parliamentarian that , when we talk about the recognition of a " viable palestinian state " , it would need to be in line with the UK - draft UN Security Council resolution 242 about what a recognise palestinian state need to be , so that people know and have a clear framework ? otherwise — as in 1967 , 1977 , 1987 , 1997 and 2007 , and now in 2024 — we will have just keep call for it . let we make it clear what recognition of that state mean , and have a clear timeline for when we will recognise that state . the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point , which be why our amendment talk about the political solution that be necessary . all of we know that it be not the military and weapon that will bring an end to the crisis ; it be political discussion and dialogue — the business that we be all in . he talk about the circumstance for such a two - state solution . recognition in and of itself do not achieve that two - state solution , but it be our commitment , if we could work with partner . we be on a road and a journey , and we have hear partner in other country speak to that issue at this time . Most colleague , when they talk about those two state , be think about the 1967 border , but I hear what he say . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I be go to make some progress , because many member will want to speak and I do not want to dominate the whole debate . [ interruption . ] let I just make some progress , and I will return to SNP colleague . labour ' s amendment reflect the common sense and moral purpose of the british people . they see the endless killing of innocent and find it intolerable . we want it to stop now through an immediate humanitarian ceasefire . Labour want that immediate ceasefire not tomorrow and not in another 100 day , but now . the british people see the prospect of an israeli ground offensive in Rafah and know it will lead only to more death and suffering . they want it to stop not tomorrow and not in 100 day ; they want it to stop now . they see the family of hostage in agony , whose capture be prolong their agony . they want to see the hostage release not tomorrow and not in 100 day ; they want they release now . the common sense of the british people understand that rule exist for a reason , and that the international rule of law must be follow . they want Israel to comply with the ICJ ' s provisional measure — not tomorrow and not in 100 day , but now . the common sense of the british people also understand that no ceasefire can be one - sided . they know it be not enough just for Hamas or just for Israel to stop fire rocket ; they want both side to stop , and not tomorrow or in another 100 day , but now . the right hon . Member make the point that only politic and diplomacy can take we to that two - state solution . that underpin why it be necessary to have the ceasefire on both side and the return of the hostage . however , it be incumbent on all of we — we have debate the two - state solution for decade — that this now have to be a wake - up call , and the international community have to come together to insist that the right of Israelis and Palestinians be recognise . however , in order to begin that process we need this House to vote today for that ceasefire . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman and ask he to vote for Labour ' s amendment . on the shadow Foreign Secretary ' s point about wish no more day to elapse , the official Opposition be here just 16 day ago with their own Opposition day debate , and they discuss ministerial severance . can he tell we why they do not give the same priority to the people of Gaza as they give to ministerial severance just 16 day ago ? I have be call for the fighting to stop for week . the Leader of the opposition have be call for the fighting to stop for week . I say to the hon . Gentleman that I be in the west bank , and in Egypt , Qatar , the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia — that be how seriously we take the issue . I be also in Israel . none of we — [ interruption . ] order . the right hon . Gentleman be mean to be speak through the Chair , not the other way . none of we have more moral authority than each of we act to pass a motion and speak with one voice in this House today . the british people have see the spectre of violence in Northern Ireland over many decade . they understand that a ceasefire be not the final destination , but a step on the road to a last peace ; one that require hard negotiation and a road map for a political process . there be no way out of the crisis without the hope that both Palestinians and Israelis have a path to security , justice and opportunity in land they can call their own . progress will require genuine partner for peace on both side of the table . Hamas and israeli hardliner want to bury a two - state solution , and we must now unite to show that we will not let that happen . as I say before , my discussion with the United States and with european and arab leader in Munich have make clear the widespread acknowledgment of the need to urgently seek that just and lasting solution : a sovereign and viable palestinian state , and a safe and secure Israel , with strong and trusting relation with the country in the region . that be the prize . I do not underestimate the great pain and division that must be overcome , or the challenge ahead . the UK can not advance this agenda on its own , but it can not sit this one out . it be time for the international community to stand up and achieve an end to the fighting and a path to peace , and the UK must play its part . that be why our amendment make it explicit that we will not give up on a two - state solution . it make it clear that we will work with international partner to recognise a palestinian state as a contribution to , rather than an outcome of , a two - state solution . in this House we be use to division because our trade be politic , but on this matter we must rise above it . when the british people be so clear and so concerned , from Truro to Inverness , let no one tell we that they take no interest in foreign affair . would it not send a powerful message if , for once , we could come together as a House for the sake of the nation and for the sake of peace ? in this spirit , we design an amendment that my hon . friend to the left and to the right of I , and those on the Government Benches across from I , may vote for . it be my appeal to those in this House that we come together , call in one voice to end the killing and for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire , and call on both side to stop . a united Parliament today can show we be roll up our sleeve , and commit to the long , hard road to peace . so we will have make the voice of our nation hear to influence this war , and to help these tragic child of the same land to find peace in the beautiful Palestine of tomorrow and in an Israel without tear , where the stone of Jerusalem shall finally be a city of peace . I beg the House to approve the Labour amendment . this have already be an extremely interesting debate . we hear from the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) — will the Minister give way ? I will give way later , but I be not give way for the moment . the shadow Foreign Secretary speak about the huge benefit of our speak with one voice . the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) talk about there be more cohesion in the House than people currently think . the shadow Foreign Secretary talk about the importance of have some humility , because member of Parliament be not in the room . I emphasise that the Government be in the room . there be a call for the tone be lift ; the shadow Foreign Secretary say that we should " come together . " I submit that the right thing to do be to support the Government amendment . the opposition have be supportive in the past , and the House ' s speak with one voice help Britain ' s argument , which he and I share , in the middle east . subject to your advice , Mr Speaker , we will move our amendment , which I want to be sure that the House will consider seriously and in the tone that the shadow Foreign Secretary call for . our amendment state that the House , support Israel ' s right to self - defence , in compliance with international humanitarian law , against the terror attack perpetrate by Hamas ; condemn the slaughter , abuse and gender - base violence perpetrate on 7 October 2023 ; far condemn the use of civilian area by Hamas and other for terrorist operation ; urge negotiation to agree an immediate humanitarian pause as the good way to stop the fighting and to get aid in and hostage out ; support move towards a permanent sustainable ceasefire ; acknowledge that achieve this will require all hostage to be release , the formation of a new palestinian Government , Hamas to be unable to launch further attack and to be no long in charge in Gaza , and a credible pathway to a two - state solution which deliver peace , security and justice for both Israelis and Palestinians ; express concern at the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and at the prospect of a military offensive in Rafah ; reaffirm the urgent need to significantly scale up the flow of aid into Gaza , where too many innocent civilian have die ; and call on all party to take immediate step to stop the fighting and ensure unhindered humanitarian access . " I submit that that carefully craft amendment ought to carry the vast number of right hon . and hon . member with the Government as we seek , in this incredibly difficult situation , to forge a common path and a common purpose . will the Minister give way ? I will do so , but not yet . this morning I return from Qatar , as part of the british Government ' s collective effort to make progress on key objective . I must apologise to you , Mr Speaker , and to the House , because I will need to be absent for part of the debate , as it now extend to 7 o ' clock , to engage in other ministerial duty . we all want an end to the fighting as soon as possible , but we must also recognise and understand that a ceasefire will not last if hostage be still be hold , and if Hamas still rain down rocket on Israel and maintain control of Gaza with capability to carry out further terrorist atrocity . the immediate priority must be negotiate a humanitarian pause , because that will create a window to get more hostage out safely , to get considerably more aid in quickly , and to get further negotiation on a sustainable ceasefire go immediately . rise — we want the pause to become a complete ceasefire without — I say this to the hon . member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) — a return to fighting . that be the focus of our diplomatic effort as talk turn to a military offensive in Rafah , which have the potential for devastating consequence . I therefore welcome the opportunity to reflect to the House on the late development . as the Prime Minister say to Prime Minister Netanyahu last week , we continue to support Israel ' s right to defend its people against Hamas ' terror , but we be deeply concerned about the loss of civilian life in Gaza and the worsen humanitarian crisis . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will in a moment . let I also reflect on the terrible impact of this conflict . on 7 October , Israel suffer the bad terror attack in its history at the hand of Hamas . More than 1 , 200 Israelis be report kill , and more than 5 , 000 Israelis be report injure . even now , more than 130 hostage be still think to be hold by Hamas in Gaza . last week see the first hostage rescue since late October , with two hostage return to their family . we continue to call for the immediate release of all hostage , include british national and their family . we be use all diplomatic channel to push for that , work with partner across the region . meanwhile , we have help more than 300 british national to leave Gaza . the devastating humanitarian crisis be worsen daily , with hunger and disease spread . accord to late report , more than 29 , 000 people have be kill , 69 , 000 injure , and 1 . 7 million people have be displace . we want Israel to take great care to limit its operation to military target and avoid harm civilian and destroy home . I write to the Foreign Secretary on 2 January and receive a reply from one of his junior Ministers in the House of Lords about the plight of the 650 Christians hold in the Holy Family church , who be innocent hostage of this appalling situation . I ask the Foreign Secretary if we could give those people asylum as they be clearly in the cross - fire . I receive a frankly disingenuous reply say that the Government would " seek respite " for those people . that mean nothing . be we prepared to offer asylum to those people and get they out ? my right hon . friend will know that this be a difficult area that involve other Departments . I will ensure that he get an update on that issue from the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) when she wind up the debate . the Minister have just lay out the Government ' s position , and the difference between that and the Labour amendment may not be immediately clear to those watch . the Labour amendment call for an immediate ceasefire , and the Government ' s call for a " pause " , which by definition mean that the war be not over but there be a pause in it . the Labour amendment call for the introduction of a palestinian state , and be in line with the position of Australia , Canada and New Zealand . it oppose the action in Rafah , whereas the government only have " concern " about it . will the Minister explain , give those four difference , what he think be wrong with what Labour be say in our amendment ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s recognition that the amendment table by the Government and the official Opposition be close . it be a great pity that it be not possible for the official Opposition to support the Government amendment , and I hope that the hon . Gentleman will consider that when he come to decide how to vote . I will come directly to the other point he mention , if he will allow I to do so . as I have say , we be deeply concerned about the prospect of a military offensive in Rafah , where over half of Gaza ' s population be shelter , include more than 600 , 000 child . those be people who have flee repeatedly since the conflict begin , and as the Foreign Secretary have say , it be impossible to see how a war can be fight among they . there be nowhere for they to go . they can not go south into Egypt , and they can not go north because many of their home have be destroy . Hamas , of course , display the utmost cynicism in lurk among civilian , sacrifice innocent life in the name of their fanaticism , and we condemn that utterly . but we must also recognise the result of that cynicism : israeli soldier will only be able to reach hostage or the Hamas leadership at an incredible cost to innocent life . we share Israel ' s desire to end the threat from Hamas , and ensure that it no long exert control over Gaza , but the UK and our partner say that Israel must reflect on whether such a military operation be wise or be counterproductive to its long - term interest and the achievement of the goal that the international community have set out , before it take any further action . Britain and our partner be do all we can to help those suffering . we have treble our assistance , and we be press to get it into Gaza by all available route — land , sea , air , truck of aid roll in from Jordan , and ship load with supply sail from Cyprus — all while strive to get more crossing open . as I mention , last week I be in Qatar , where we discuss the need to increase humanitarian aid to Gaza . I be pleased to say that a joint UK - Qatar aid consignment arrive in Rafah last week , include tent to shelter family in desperate need . our partnership on that consignment prefigure our new $ 50 million global humanitarian and development co - fund initiative , which I unveil with Qatari Minister Al - Khater last weekend . the Rafah crossing be vital to ensure aid can reach the people who so desperately need it . Britain have continually underline the need for Israel to ease restriction on humanitarian supply and to ensure that the UN and aid agency can reach civilian in need throughout Gaza . rise — rise — rise — I will give way in a moment to the right hon . member for Islington North . let I also reiterate that Israel must obey international humanitarian law in the way it prosecute the war and in ensure that food , water and shelter be available to Gazans . it must also take all possible measure to ensure the safety of medical personnel and facility . the british Government have repeat that point in all our engagement with israeli counterpart and partner , include during the Foreign Secretary ' s visit to Israel on 24 January , and with regional partner , include Saudi Arabia , Oman and Lebanon . People pour cold water on the south african submission to the International Court of Justice before it be place . could the Minister now give a response from the Government to the interim decision make by the International Court of Justice — the world court — which effectively call for an immediate unilateral halt to the hostility by Israel against the people of Gaza ? surely , if the Government believe in the rule of international law , they should respect the International Court of Justice . I have previously in the House set out to the right hon . Gentleman that the Government respect the International Court of Justice . we make it clear that we think it be a mistake for South Africa to launch that case when it do , and the view of the British Government have not change since I last tell he it . the most effective way now to alleviate the suffering be an immediate pause in fighting to get aid in and hostage out . that be the good route to make progress towards a future for Gaza free from rule by Hamas . Britain have set out the vital element to turn a pause into a sustainable ceasefire without a return to fighting — that be one of the key point that the shadow Foreign Secretary make — and perhaps create the political space for a last peace . we can only turn to that if there be first a break in the fighting . anything that create an advance be good , and I welcome the Government move . I be afraid that I can not support their motion in not call for an immediate ceasefire , because it do not capture the urgency . I welcome the Government ' s sanctioning of the four extremist violent settler , because there be a link between what be happen in the west bank in the settlement , the political view of the ultra - right - wing in Netanyahu ' s Government , especially Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , and the protestation of Netanyahu that he do not want a palestinian state on ' 67 border . he have be clear about that , and when we put all that together , it in part explain why the assault on Rafah and the rest of Gaza be happen as it be . will the Minister tell the House a bit more about those sanction , because they be work ? also , what have the Government say to Netanyahu about a future palestinian state , because it be a necessary precondition for any kind of truce , ceasefire or whatever we want to call it ? I have great respect for the hon . Lady , as she know , but on her last point , she may rest assure that the Foreign Secretary , who know Prime Minister Netanyahu well , and the Prime Minister specifically in a conversation last week have be clear on the importance of that . I hope she will consider that tonight when she decide how she will vote on the various amendment . as my right hon . Friend say , and I think the shadow Foreign Secretary say , we be in the business of politic . if my right hon . friend enter into negotiation this week with the israeli Government , would we have more chance of persuade they to an immediate ceasefire or more chance of persuade they to the cause of a humanitarian pause ? my hon . friend make his point extremely clearly . look at the specific wording of the Government amendment , it mention " a credible pathway to a two - state solution which deliver peace " . with regard to that specific point and the point make early , where be the United Kingdom on the recognition of a palestinian state ? I see comment by the Foreign Secretary recently on that . for a two - state solution to be achieve , the Government need to set out what they consider a palestinian state to look like . be it base on ' 67 border and a motion that we , the United Kingdom , draft and ask other to support ? look at Ukraine , around the world people say , " if you want we to support you on international law , you have to be consistent in your approach . " my hon . friend will appreciate that it be important not to go too fast and imperil the objective we seek , and I point he to what I say in response to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) . I be come directly to that point . rise — I will give way in a minute ; I have be generous in give way . we have set out the vital step for achieve the pause we wish to see . all hostage must be release and a new palestinian Government for the west bank and Gaza form , accompany by an international support package . Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel must be remove , and they must no long be in charge in Gaza . finally , there must be a political horizon , as the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon and my hon . friend the Member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) mention , that provide a credible and irreversible pathway to a two - state solution . the resolution put forward in the Security Council yesterday do not achieve those outcome . simply call for a ceasefire , as that resolution do , will not make it happen . indeed , as it could endanger the hostage negotiation , it could make a ceasefire less likely . the way to stop the fighting and then to potentially stop it from restart be to begin with a pause to get hostage out and aid in . that be what we be call for , and it could end the fighting now . we have also take further step to hold those to account who undermine the step to peace in the west bank . last week , the British Government announce new sanction against four extremist israeli settler who have violently attack Palestinians in the west bank . our long - stand position be that we will recognise a palestinian state at a time that be most conducive to the peace process , and I submit to the House that that must be the right answer . we must give the people of the west bank and Gaza the political perspective of a credible route to a palestinian state and a new future , and it need to be irreversible . likewise , we must give the people of Israel certainty of security . that do not just come down to we , but we can help . crucially , we have make it clear that the formal recognition of a palestinian state can not come at the start of the process , but it do not have to be at the very end of the process either . I thank the right hon . gentleman for reward my perseverance by give way — I appreciate that . this have be a highly charge debate , both in the House and among the general public . People be rightly angry . part of the anger be bear from a real sense of frustration that this Parliament and this government do not give the same value to the life of a palestinian child as they do to the life of an israeli child . whether we accept that or not , it be a strongly hold belief . we know that 600 , 000 child be at risk if the Rafah ground offensive begin . no ifs and no but — will the Minister say from the Dispatch Box that the Government do not support that action ? I have set out the Government ' s position extremely clearly . I recognise the point the hon . Gentleman be make . there be strong feeling across the House on this matter . the point that I be try to make in this speech , and that have be make by a number of member , be that there be an awful lot in the Government ' s amendment that most people in the House can agree with and support . my right hon . Friend say that the Foreign Secretary have ask Israel to think again about any further military offensive or incursion into Rafah . I think we would all urge Israel to think carefully about how that would be conduct . however , do he agree that our support for Israel on 7 October , when we say it should be able to eradicate Hamas , be clear , and that there be a danger that our emerge position — certainly that of other party — would leave Hamas ' s terrorist organisation partially intact ? that be an intolerable situation for Israel : it would send a clear message that use human shield work and that we will not allow Israel to fully defend itself . how would he answer that question ? I think that I have answer it , because I have make clear the Government ' s position in respect of Hamas and Hamas ' s future . if my right hon . friend read the record and the Government amendment with care tonight , I think he will see that the key point he be make be one that inform the Government ' s view . have my right hon . Friend have any discussion with the israeli Government about how , if the hostage be release by Hamas , Israel would withdraw and the peace process could start move forward ? I be sure the House will understand that I can not comment in any detail at all about the ongoing hostage negotiation , but I can tell my hon . friend and the House that Britain be right at the front of try to ensure that the negotiation be successful . let I end by recognise that there will be a huge amount to do in the day after a pause . it will be a starting point on the road to peace , not the final destination . nevertheless , it be critical that all party give the process the good odd of succeed . that mean first secure a pause in the fighting , which then progress to a sustainable ceasefire and — we all hope — a last peace . I urge all member of the House to look carefully at the Government ' s amendment tonight before decide how to vote — if you , Mr Speaker , put it to a vote . I want begin with something that Frankie Boyle say . he point out that it make no sense to say that the situation in Gaza be too complex for a ceasefire , because ceasefire be one of the old and simple term to understand . it mean stop fire . in fact , it be so simple that it be design to be hear and understand in the middle of a literal battle . so there be no middle ground when it come to a ceasefire : you either follow the order or you don ' t . you either stop fire or you don ' t . during the 2014 crisis , there be an estimate 2 , 251 palestinian death . the then Prime Minister rightly call for an " immediate and unconditional " ceasefire . if we fast - forward 10 year to the current conflict , we have a death toll of nearly 30 , 000 , and that be not include the body yet to be recover from underneath the rubble , and yet the very same man — he be now Foreign Secretary — be fail to support a ceasefire . nearly 70 , 000 people have be injure . accord to Amnesty International , the death rate in Gaza right now be one death every four minute . it be not just bomb that be kill Palestinians ; it be poor sanitation and malnutrition as well . we know that people be starve . People be be reduce to eat grass and animal feed . in January — last month — over half of all aid delivery be deny access and could not get through to those who need it . Less than half of the hospital in Gaza be even partially function , and the few that be will quickly run out of supply unless Israel allow aid through . since 2008 , Israel have refuse entry to any UN agency individual , which to I be a giant red flag in and of itself . despite these attempt to shield themselves and hide from any accountability , we know that war crime be be commit in Gaza . church shelter hundred of innocent Palestinians have be bomb to the ground . there have be strike against people in refugee camp and hospital . early this week , there be report that israeli force order the evacuation of a hospital , only to start sniper fire on those who attempt to leave , leave 2 , 500 folk still trap in the hospital . Israel ' s own Minister of Defence say there would be " a complete siege on Gaza … no electricity no food , no water , no gas " . as the occupy power , Israel have an obligation under international law to ensure that the basic need of Gaza ' s civilian population be meet . it be not do that . the International Court of Justice specifically direct Israel to take " immediate and effective measure to enable the provision of … basic service and humanitarian assistance " it be not do that . Israel still refuse to reinstate the water supply it so cruelly shut off month ago . it be stop medicine get in . it be stop food enter Gaza and , despite the grow likelihood of famine that it will have create , it be still not budge . let we be absolutely clear that the action of Hamas be horrific and unjustifiable , but , as I say early to the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , the people of Palestine be not Hamas . Israel ' s disproportionate and indiscriminate bombing of civilian , combine with everything else that we know , must be the very definition of collective punishment , which as we all know be illegal under international law — it be a war crime . that be why how this place respond it be so important . in many respect , the ending of the violence in Gaza rest in the hand of the country supply the money and the weapon to Israel . the arm trade treaty ban the sale of weapon when there be a concern that they may be use to breach international law . give that the International Court of Justice have find that there be a plausible risk that Israel be commit genocide , it be upon the UK to revoke all arm licence and military equipment to Israel ; otherwise , we break the treaty that we have sign up to . warm word and platitude will not cut it — only action will . one death every four minute . in the time of this debate , as we all talk among ourselves , 100 more people who be alive this morning will be dead . the least we can do be call for a ceasefire . if we do not , we will be morally and directly complicit in every single life lose and every single family destroy in Gaza . the route to peace , the route to justice and the route to any humane conclusion begin with an immediate and unconditional ceasefire . anything less from we , and future generation will quite rightly never forgive we or forget . whatever anyone ' s view be about the history or the politic of the middle east , no one can be in any doubt that since 7 October we have all witness a humanitarian tragedy . the attack of the terrorist group Hamas , include the murder of young people attend a music festival and the taking of hostage , be bind to set in train a series of violence , which Hamas must have fully understand , include a full response by the israeli Government . in associate myself completely with the comment of my right hon . friend the Minister on the Government ' s amendment , particularly on the need for an immediate humanitarian pause and a permanent , sustainable ceasefire , include the release of hostage , I want to take up the point make by the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) , who be no long in his place , about the role that Britain can have in the more substantive issue around the conflict . as have be point out in the debate , we be not participant in the conflict , so we can not have a direct effect on whether arm be lay down , but we can have an influence in the process that come later . soon or later , this will have to return to a political process , and Britain should now be set down the rule by which we want to see peace put in place . will the right hon . member give way ? not at the moment . it be highly important that we understand what we mean by peace when the term be be use in this context . the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) have the privilege of be at the Manama Dialogue , and feel strongly about that . we have constantly to make clear to both side that the concept of peace be not just the absence of war or conflict but freedom from the fear of conflict , oppression or terror . peace require mutual respect , freedom from persecution and live without fear of destitution . it come with self - determination and liberation from arbitrary justice . it need hope , dignity and enforceable right . only when all the people of the region have access to all that could we talk about have achieve a peaceful solution to the conflict . we need to look at the political process with two addenda . we must move to a two - state solution , because the country that do not want that be Iran , which do not want Israel to exist , and apparently Prime Minister Netanyahu do not want a palestinian state to exist . we must recognise the will of the international community for a two - state solution in the end . for a political process to be able to exist , we need to deal with the wide security issue . there need to be a guarantee security for Israel , to protect it from the sort of attack that it have see . it be clear that the israeli construct of security have fail — otherwise , the Hamas incursion would not have take place . it be also clear that there have to be a proper guarantee of security for any emerge palestinian state . quite self - evidently , that can not be do by the state on their own . just as we look for international security guarantee for Europe after world war two , so we will need international agreement on any security architecture within which a political solution can be find to the Israel - palestinian issue . I be sure that this House can unite around the need , as a country , to be concern about the improved prosperity , hope and opportunity of all young people in the region . it have be my privilege to lead the UK Abraham Accords Group over the past two year , and I welcome the support that we have have across the House , but we must find mechanism to improve the economic wellbeing of young people , particularly , on the arab street . otherwise , there will be no lasting basis for a political solution . People who have nothing to lose will gamble . People who have something to lose will be much more circumspect . that have be the lesson from peace be bring to dispute around the world . I believe that the important issue of Rafah come into this , because we be at something of a crossroad . we can move forward with the idea of hope and prosperity , bridge building and rapprochement that the Abraham accord have bring . the government of Bahrain , the United Arab Emirates and Morocco have be far sight in maintain that process during the current conflict . if we do not take that path , we run the risk of go back to 1971 and a generation of radicalise young Arabs who will make a political solution impossible . much of this debate be quite nuanced in term of when and how ceasefire should take place , but as a country , we need to set our sight and horizon far , on what happen when the political process do re - engage . where do Britain play a role ? I believe that we have a positive and constructive role to play , and we need to take our debate on to that wide , more important and far - sighted horizon . rise — order . some 60 member wish to take part in the debate . even give the time available , and allow half an hour for the wind - up speech — 10 minute for each — we must impose a time limit . I will start immediately with a limit of five minute , but that be very likely to drop to three minute in fairly short order . I be speechless at the way this debate begin . as the House know , there have be scant opportunity for I to tell the story not just of my family or the hundred in the church where they be in northern Gaza , but of Palestinians on the ground and , indeed , those who lose people in the horrendous attack on 7 October , whether through murder or abduction . I be grateful that we have this opportunity . in the hour of debate in front of we , my first ask of anyone who speak after I be , please , to hold all those people in their heart as they say what they say . I believe sincerely that this House be move towards a right position , and I will explain what I think that be in a moment . on the suggestion that this House be in some way against a ceasefire — I would hope an immediate one , however the semantic play out in the vote later — can we please try to send a message in particular to the palestinian people perish in their ten of thousand on the ground , and to those hostage family that , fundamentally , we need this to stop now ? I do not care what we call it . I should have start by draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the register of interest . I sit as an unpaid adviser on the board of the International Centre for Justice for Palestinians . last week I go to Israel and Palestine with Yachad , and I will start with a story . on the first day , we go down to the southern border with Gaza , to a place call Nativ ha ' asara , a place I have visit before . we meet an incredible woman call Roni , who have lose family member — 16 from that kibbutzim have perish . as I go there , I look across at northern Gaza . I see the plume of smoke . I hear the drone and the " pop pop pop " of the gunfire , and I break down . as I walk back through the village , Roni , an israeli peace activist , take I to one side , give I a hug and say , " I ' m so sorry " , which I say back . we both cry and hold each other . it be important to remember that although those voice of peace in Israel have be silent for some time , many of the people kill on that day be ally of the palestinian people who have be call for decade against the occupation , call out Netanyahu ' s Government , and condemn Ben - Gvir and Smotrich . it be for that reason that I welcome the sanction on those extremist settler , because there be a direct link between the right wing element of Netanyahu ' s Government and those extremist settler . the amendment that the Lib Dems table to the motion state that we should not finish there . we need to continue those sanction on those people and their connected entity . I look across , think of my family still in that church in northern Gaza with no food , no water and no way of get down to the south , even if they could cross at Rafah with the 1 . 5 million people there . without an immediate ceasefire , they and other family who be trap can not achieve anything . that be even without think about whether they would be allow to come back if they leave , or whether there would be a political solution . that political horizon be everything . without a two - state solution on ' 67 border , we be condemn both Israelis and Palestinians to relive this nightmare over and over and over again . if there be one message that we send Netanyahu and Hamas today , let it be that we will not accept that . I very much welcome this debate on support a ceasefire in Gaza and the step require to get we there , but let I be clear : as the nation and , indeed , those beyond look on , this be a very sad day for Parliament . rather than our offer clarity on Parliament ' s position , speak with one voice as we seek to end the fighting , there be not one but three separate text as this debate turn into a political football . shame on we for fail to find common ground . what a waste opportunity this be to exhibit UK leadership and resolve in seek to get close to the very objective that we come here to debate . it be a reflection on how fragmented and polarise our world have become that no single power , or alliance of states , or indeed international organisation such as the United Nations be in control of the event that be now unfold in the middle east , with all its troubled history — a region on the junction not just of three continent , but of three great abrahamic religion . from the start , I support Israel ' s right to defend itself after those terrible 7 October attack , but I be the only voice here in Parliament , when we reconvene , to warn Prime Minister Netanyahu , before he send in the tank , not to invade until there be a clear governance and security plan which any military operation could work towards ; and that still elude we today . away from Netanyahu ' s leadership , Israel be an important UK ally , a rare democratic state in a troubled part of the world . it deserve our support , but also our frankness . the scale of the collateral damage be shocking — indeed , that phrase seem inappropriate give the loss of life — but there be nothing simple about urban warfare , and future military strategist at Sandhurst and West Point be likely to use the israeli military invasion as an example of how not to do it , and of how tactic without strategy fail . on the other side , we look for voice in the middle east condemn Hamas , but they be not there . Bahrain be the only country to say that it condemn what Hamas have do . be we expect the Palestinian Authority to step in ? it be have its own problem in its own neck of the wood . as I have say previously , before the israeli tank roll in I be the only one to suggest the formation of a temporary technical council by those who have sign the Abraham accord to take responsibility once those gun fall silent . there be no mention of any of this in the motion or the amendment . be we suggest that we should empower Hamas to stay , as they remain committed to destroy Israel ? it be in their covenant to do exactly that . shout " Ceasefire , ceasefire " alone and unconditionally , will not , I be afraid , change anything ; and I say that as someone who have be involve in a few conflict as a soldier . perhaps it be symbolic . surely with our statecraft , our influence and our convening power , we should be do so much more . a ceasefire be a contract agree between two side , and it require a third party to step forward to ensure that they can control what go on . it begin with a cessation of hostility that allow space for other activity to take place , and allow plan to advance . neither Israel nor Hamas be in that place yet . the alternative be a large third force , mobilise to enforce a ceasefire , but I suspect that no one here today be advocate that . a ceasefire call for timeframe , no - fly zone , buffer zone , emergency procedure to quash any breach , agree incentive in relation to , for example , hostage release and humanitarian support , and , of course , international monitoring team in which the UK could play a part . I do not hear any of that be discuss today ; I hear only the clarion call " let ' s have a ceasefire . " this be a detail that we need to discuss before we demand from afar something that will perhaps make we feel well . I simply make the case that , from here , it be easy to shout those word " let ' s have a ceasefire " , but it be hard to implement that in practice . Britain have a role to play : it have an important , persuasive and active role to play on the international stage . what we have do today be illustrate how much more we need to learn , and how we need to elevate the calibre of our debate in order to deal with these international matter . I will be support the Government today , but I recommend that all three party get together , so that we can come back to the House and agree a unified statement on take this forward , and how a ceasefire might proceed . rise — order . a number of member have indicate a desire to withdraw their application to speak , but we will still be play beat the clock , so I be drop the time limit to four minute . much have be say about the death and suffering of civilian in Gaza , and I add my condemnation of those responsible on both side of this conflict . in the brief time allow today , I wish to highlight the role of , and the risk take by , three specific group of people who receive little medium coverage : humanitarian aid worker , health worker , and journalist . we owe they all a great debt of gratitude for the work that they carry out in the most dangerous circumstance , in area of extreme conflict and suffering , with the ever - present risk of death , serious injury and disease . since 7 October , at least 136 staff member of the United Nations — humanitarian aid worker — have be kill in Gaza . the UN ' s Secretary - General , Ant ó nio Guterres , say recently that throughout the UN ' s history it have never witness the death of its staff in such large number . as for health worker , at least 300 have be kill during the conflict . the killing of aid worker and health worker be both unacceptable and illegal . the World Medical Association have make that clear repeatedly , and in 2002 it say : " the right to health be a fundamental element of human right which do not change in situation of conflict and violence . access to medical assistance for the sick and wound , whether they have be engage in active combat or not , be guarantee through various international agreement , include those of the Geneva Convention and of the United Nations . " Israel and those nation support she , include the United States and the United Kingdom , have sign up to those agreement , and their neglect in not enforce they be criminal . journalist , too , have pay a heavy price to bring we report of event on the ground . at least 126 have be kill in Gaza since 7 October , with many other arrest . the presence of journalist in Gaza be essential so that the world can be keep inform of the horrific event take place there , and , in due course , hold those responsible to account . the United States and the United Kingdom have much more work to do in challenge all participant in this conflict to respect the human right of civilian , include humanitarian aid worker , health worker and journalist . without those humanitarian aid and health worker many more life would be lose , and without the work of journalist the world would be far less well informed of the horror that be take place in Gaza . in the last week , 27 humanitarian and human right agency include christian aid , Oxfam and Muslim Aid write an open letter to the Prime Minister call for an immediate and permanent ceasefire and a suspension of all arm export , and for the UK to ensure that Israel fully implement the order of the International Court of Justice . any continuation of the military operation in Gaza will merely result in innocent man , woman and child pay the price for a crime that they do not commit . the only way in which to prevent further loss of civilian life , and to secure the release of hostage and the entry of lifesave humanitarian aid , be to secure an immediate and permanent ceasefire which include include call off the Rafah offensive — not tomorrow , not next week , not next month , but today . I fully support the international demand for an immediate and permanent ceasefire in Gaza , and I will be vote in favour of the SNP ' s motion . I know that every single one of we in the Chamber want the fighting to stop and the conflict to come to an end . the loss of civilian life be always a tragedy , no matter the justification for the military intervention that lead to it . so , yes , our Government must use all diplomatic mean possible to try to secure another humanitarian pause in the fighting , to get hostage out and more aid supply in . however , I be afraid that demand an immediate ceasefire amount to ask Israel to lay down its arm unilaterally while its hostage remain in peril and while Hamas retain power in Gaza . Hamas official Ghazi Hamad have say that they will repeat the 7 October attack " again and again " . he say : " on October 7 , October 10 , October 1 , 000 , 000 — everything we do be justify . " that be shocking . unless Hamas be defeat militarily and remove from power , there be nothing to stop they rebuild their capacity to commit heinous act of terrorism . I appreciate that those call for an unconditional ceasefire now be sincere and well intentione , but I feel that such a call mean abandon support for Israel in its time of great need , when it be exercise its right to self - defence . we must not forget the 7 October attack in which 1 , 000 people lose their life , involve sicken level of violence and abuse : murder and mutilation ; the killing of baby , child and the elderly ; decapitation ; and rape and sexual abuse of the most horrific kind . when I visit Israel in January — a trip record in my entry on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — I have the chance to speak directly to people suffer the torture of know their love one remain in the hand of this violent islamist death cult . we must not forget the hostage still hold in Gaza , who may well be be rape or torture right now . no pause or ceasefire can be workable , sustainable or permanent unless it come after the release of all hostage , the defeat and removal of Hamas from power , and an end to the terror group ' s capacity to repeat their 7 October atrocity . that be why I will be vote for the Government ' s motion this evening . I call Martin Docherty - Hughes . that be soon than I expect , Mr Deputy Speaker , but thank you . interestingly enough , I rise in the House on Monday and quote a former Member of the House — indeed , a former Member for Dundee and a former Prime Minister — and I would lay the same proposition before the Prime Minister and the leader of the British Labour party , if they be here , regard their delay response to the cataclysmic genocide be rain on the palestinian people : their british policy to Palestine have indeed be weigh in the balance and find want . how else can our constituent , and indeed the people of Scotland , view the British Parliament , when its political class have , since November — the last time we drag it to debate this subject — deflect the reality on the ground in Gaza ? I would like to hear from the Minister , when they sum up at the end of this debate , what assurance the Prime Minister , and indeed any other Ministers , or shadow Ministers from the loyal opposition , have receive since November from the Government of Benjamin Netanyahu regard the systematic targeting of civilian and civilian infrastructure ? have their seemingly pious intervention in any way restrain the Government of Israel from their policy of genocide , all the while enable Hamas — I have to agree with the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) on Hamas be a death cult — make they a partner in death , hate and crime ? how do this british political class find itself in this devilish and ominous situation ? one hundred and fifty - three nation have conclude that an immediate ceasefire be necessary to bring an end to the utter devastation in Gaza and to seek a way forward to deal with the death cult of Hamas , who , as we know , be support by the theocrat of Iran — a regime to which , I remind the House , the british Government have pledge to pay £ 400 million in regard to an outstanding debt . it be complicated , but the Chamber need to discuss this , while the Government be , as I see it , pirouette on the head of a pin . how be it that the French Republic have call for an immediate ceasefire ? how be it that NATO ally such as the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of the Netherlands have not only call for a ceasefire , but stop send arm to Israel ? how have they come to conclude that which this Parliament and its political class can not ? one hundred and fifty - three nation disagree with this british political class , lead by the british Prime Minister and the Leader of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . one ask : opposition to what ? the way the State of Israel have be act must be challenge . we can not sidestep the issue face by the palestinian nation — as speak to , I think , by one of the Members from the Liberal Democrats . Palestine ' s survival , and indeed that of the state of Israel , depend on it . this be a generational injustice that the palestinian people have endure . what be the answer ? it be an immediate ceasefire . the Prime Minister of Israel ' s strategy be to isolate the Palestinians in Gaza from the Palestinians in the west bank . let we remind ourselves : he be a Prime Minister who be already not only tarnish with a wicked policy in Gaza , but mire in allegation of corruption . in his Cabinet be one Minister who be a convict terrorist and another who be a confessed fascist . we must be mindful that in seek peace , we require justice . that peace , as other have say , must be found in truth , build accord to justice , vivified and integrate by charity and put into practice in freedom — freedom , I be sure , that be desire by Palestinians and Israelis alike . I say at the outset to any jewish people listen to this debate anywhere in the world , " you do have friend and ally here in this Chamber . " the SNP motion call for a unilateral ceasefire by Israel woefully fail to recognise reality . I be sorry to say that the SNP be not interested in a solution that would both safeguard the civilian of Gaza and enable an israeli victory over Hamas ; if the SNP be so motivated , it would , for example , be put pressure on Egypt to open the rafah crossing as a refuge , instead of massively strengthen it . but of course , the focus be all on Israel defend itself . Israel have be through multiple round of conflict initiate by the genocidal Hamas terror group in Gaza . the SNP motion , should it achieve its objective , would cement the prospect of many more such incursion or attack in the future . that is , of course , exactly what Hamas want : to secure endless opportunity to destroy Israel , grant by the confused logic of that motion . if the terror group be leave stand , they will regroup . Hamas say as much . that be not conjecture ; they make clear in interview that they will continue their onslaught . they must not be permit to continue as a terror statelet . I regret to inform the House that the political grandstanding that we have see in some quarter — although not all — will not make an iota of difference . Hamas have no intention of lay down their arm , and Israel , as a fellow democracy , have a responsibility . will the right hon . and learn Member give way ? I will not give way just yet . I have to say , I be shock last night to hear the leader of the SNP accuse Israel of commit war crime and hear the bandying about of such phrase . this incendiary charge be not bear out by the legality of the situation , and it be not in accordance with the fact . it be worth note that the ICJ , in its interim ruling , say that Israel have a legitimate right to continue its campaign against Hamas . let we not forget that all Hamas need to do be to release the hostage , include very small child , and hostility would cease immediately . let we not forget the third wave : the thousand of Gazan civilian cross into Israel during the 7 October attack . that be why civilian have be able to sell some hostage . Israel have take such step despite be under no international legal obligation to , for example , provide electricity and water to the people of Gaza . it have do so despite the grave security threat pose by Hamas . of course , Hamas cynically destroy those very same power line and water pipe on 7 October , which Israel swiftly repair . I notice that the hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) say that condemn Hamas ' s attack be omit from the SNP ' s motion because it go without say . I be sorry , but at the moment in this country , and in many other country around the world , it do not go without say . consider that since 7 October several thousand antisemitic incident have be record in the United Kingdom , include in Scotland , and that people be celebrate outside the israeli embassy in London in jubilation at the death of a thousand people before the Israel Defence Forces move in on 7 and 8 October , it do not go without say . a responsible Government in any jurisdiction be one that use every opportunity to stand with the victim of heinous terrorist attack . the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) begin his contribution by tell jewish people watch that they have friend in this Chamber . I wish to reiterate that in the strong possible term . jewish people be not the israeli Government and Muslims be not Hamas . in a matter of week , Muslims across the world will fast from sunrise to sunset during the holy month of Ramadan . it be a time to take life at a slow pace . that , however , be far from the reality for people in Gaza . they live with hospital bomb , home bomb , ambulance bomb , church bomb , mosque bomb , UN school bomb , refugee camp bomb and factory bomb — and the bombing continue . Gaza be under siege from the air and the F - 35 stealth bomber , often refer to as the most lethal fighter jet in the world , be be use . part for this fighter jet — the laser target system and the weapon - release system — be make in british factory . we simply do not know if those weapon be be use by israeli authority in the massacre of family and child in Gaza . politic be all about choice . the UK Government have the choice to stop or suspend arm export licence to Israel . there be precedent for that . in 2014 , the current Foreign Secretary , then the Prime Minister , suspend 12 arm export licence in the light of evidence of human right abuse . it be morally corrupt , outrageous and sicken I to my core that the UK continue to sell arm to Israel . to all the people of Gaza — mother , father , husband , wife , son and daughter — I be sorry . I be sorry that this institution of Westminster have see your tear yet ignore your pain and suffering . I be sorry that your hope of return to the beach to play in the clear blue sea have be snatch away from you . I be sorry that child be experience heart attack and will live a life full of trauma . I be sorry that your dream and aspiration have change from become scientist and footballer , to dream and aspiration of stay alive and accessing clean drinking water . I be sorry . in their hundred of thousand , the public have march on the street , a unified mass movement stand up against the status quo : people from different faith and no faith , man and woman , adult and child , and rich and poor say that enough be enough and demand a ceasefire . here in Westminster , we may have the Whip system and direction from party leadership , but every politician be accountable for their own action . it do not matter that this debate be table by the SNP , which have third party status . it do not matter if this vote be not bind . these be semantic . we can not continue to accept the systematic and deliberate oppression of the palestinian people . there must be an immediate ceasefire . in term of the semantic , do my hon . friend agree that we must remind ourselves of the word of Benjamin Netanyahu in 2019 , when he state that as long as Hamas remain in Gaza , he can always argue that there be no partner for peace during our lifetime ? he be part of the cause of this situation . I completely agree with my hon . friend and I thank he for his intervention . Britain of course have a moral responsibility towards the wide middle east region , due to the scar of the british empire , the Iraq war and the incompetence of successive government who have promise peace yet fail to deliver . when we look back on this period of history , we will surely be ask and ask ourselves , " what do you do when Gaza be be relentlessly bomb ? " yet here we be in the House of Commons with Members of Parliament play time - waste game and abandon international law . why ? the backdrop to today ' s debate have two part . one be the appalling outpouring of antisemitism in this country , which we debate in this Chamber on Monday afternoon . the other part of the backdrop to today ' s difficult debate be what I believe be a concerted campaign to pressure and even bully mp to fall into line behind a very specific wording about a ceasefire , which imply an unconditional ceasefire and have the objective of keep Hamas in place in Gaza . every right - think person in this Chamber this afternoon want to see an end to the fighting and bloodshed . it be an appalling loss of life — we can be unite on that . I be in southern Israel last week , and I go to one of the site of the bad massacre that take place on 7 October . I meet Palestinians as well when I be in Jerusalem last week , and everybody in the region be feel the pain of this . family be bleed physically , emotionally and mentally . this time last week I be sit with a group of parent of child and people still in their late teen who be be hold by Hamas in Gaza . these mother and father be worried sick about what their daughter be currently go through . no amount of wishful thinking , or we pass a simple motion call for an immediate , permanent ceasefire , be go to make it happen . the very difficult practical negotiation and discussion go on involve Egypt , Israel , America , Saudi Arabia and Qatar . do we honestly think that the messy , divide debate we be have this afternoon will make any difference to the kind of discussion that they be have right now about how we dial down the violence , open up space for aid to go in , and get some kind of negotiation go that will see the release of the hostage ? I happen to believe that if there be one single thing that would change the course of the war right now and lead to an end to the violence we be see , it would be the immediate release of the hostage . if there be one thing that we could unite around this afternoon , it would be a simple , one - line motion that call on Hamas to release the hostage immediately . that point should be make time and again . I have several issue with the SNP ' s motion . first , there be no mention of the use of sexual violence and rape as a weapon of war against israeli woman . why be that important ? it be important because there be a campaign at the moment — not just on social medium ; I see it in email from constituent , and I have a constituent confront I with this last Friday — that seek to deny that these atrocity happen . People be say that Israel have somehow concoct this and that these crime do not take place . well , they do take place . they be record on mobile phone and bodycam , and they be pick up by other security camera . there be a 47 - minute film that people can watch if they make themselves available to do so — Hamas fighter have the time of their life commit the most barbaric act . I encourage all member to grip themselves and watch the film . my second problem with the SNP ' s motion be that it contain no mention of Hamas ' s guilt or the fact that they start this round of conflict . the SNP spokesman , the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) , start his speech by say that he condemn Hamas ' s atrocity . why do the SNP motion not say that ? why do it not spell that out ? fundamentally , my problem with the SNP motion be that , at the heart of it , it let Hamas off the hook for what happen on 7 October . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way to the right hon . Gentleman . rise — after Carol Monaghan , the speak limit will have to go down to three minute . the recent ICJ ruling mean that the UK , as a signatory to the genocide convention , be legally oblige to take measure in the face of Israel ' s failure to prevent act that may be find to amount to genocide . I have be contact about this issue by many constituent , ask for I to support a ceasefire , but I want to read out the email from one constituent . she contact I , and I speak to she yesterday by phone . her email say : " I be write to you again as a jewish constituent urge you to join your fellow mps in call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . I , like many in my community , have be utterly shake by these month of violence . as I write over 28 , 000 Palestinians have be kill — 12 , 000 of they child — and over 1 . 9 million displace . Jews in the UK have be in a collective state of shock and distress since the atrocity commit by Hamas on October 7th . many in my community lose family and friend in the attack . yet this only strengthen my resolve to end the utterly heartbreaking violence Israel be unleash against palestinian civilian in Gaza . this be not a war . I pray for the safety of both Palestinians in Gaza and the hostage in captivity , but only a ceasefire can provide the relief they desperately need . life , livelihood and family be be destroy ; the very fabric of palestinian society in Gaza be be upend . such a policy of revenge and collective punishment achieve safety for nobody . the UK government be responsible for ensure international law be adhere to — yet every moment it fail to advance a ceasefire , it be complicit in the perpetration of war crime and the killing of civilian . the ongoing escalation of violence in Rafah risk further mass atrocity . this can not go on . as a jewish constituent I thank you , the First Minister , and the SNP for your action so far in work towards a ceasefire , the return of the survive hostage , and a last peace . I urge you , my MP , and my government to demand an immediate ceasefire , the safe return of hostage , and the urgent provision of substantial life - save aid to Palestinians in Gaza . " this be quite simply the only way we can end this violence and start to fight for a future that guarantee freedom , equality and dignity for all Palestinians and Israelis . three - minute limit . I call Sir Edward Leigh . I have just be talk to a lady colleague who receive a green card to go to speak to people in Westminster Hall . the moment she explain the Government ' s position and her support of their moderate amendment , she be surround by a scream mob videoe she and intimidate she . all this hatred have to stop . we have to pull together in this country . nobody in this country or in this House be responsible for the horrific attack by Hamas . we all utterly condemn Hamas and their genocidal activity . we must support moderate . there be many moderate people in Israel who want a two - state solution and who be horrify by the activity of settler try to intimidate Palestinians . we must give hope to palestinian people . nothing can justify the genocide on 7 October , but still there be a degree of hopelessness among the palestinian people at the rate of settlement in the west bank and what be happen in Gaza . we must give they hope . that be one side of the story , and surely we can unite behind that . I support the effort of the British Government in try to do so , but surely we can also take a moderate and sensible position on this issue of a ceasefire . there be no point in have a unilateral ceasefire now if a death cult will use that ceasefire to go on bombing and kill innocent Israelis — it will achieve nothing . we have to have a balanced , sustainable ceasefire in which the hostage be release and Hamas ' s leadership be remove permanently from Gaza . now I be speak largely on behalf of the people who live in Gaza . there be no future for the palestinian people in Gaza with Hamas in control . there will be constant warfare , hatred , disaster and bombing . we have to get rid of Hamas . we have to get the Palestinian Authority , for all its fault , back in control , and we have to push the peace process forward . the Government amendment be moderate and sensible . it be try to achieve peace and we should support it . late last night I return from Cairo , which I have visit as one of the member of the International Development Committee to listen to the experience of head of non - governmental agency and UN agency work in Gaza . they describe a man - make humanitarian catastrophe , and I be ashamed of the moral cowardice in the response of those in the world who first fail to prevent , and be now fail to stop , the atrocity unfold before our eye . I have hear at first hand how Gaza be characterise by death and destruction . bomb and bullet have claim the life of ten of thousand of innocent people . whole family have be wipe out and whole city leave uninhabitable . those who survive have be horrifically injure and leave displace with nowhere to go . nothing be off limit for israeli force , which have be target and destroy place of worship , school and hospital . Disease , malnutrition and starvation have become inevitable . in these condition , hope have be extinguish for so many . time and again , some of the most experienced humanitarian worker — people who have bear witness to the world ' s bad disaster and conflict — have tell I that they have never experience anything like the horror of Gaza . only 150 aid truck a day be get into Gaza . the UK say that it be supply aid , but that aid be sit in truck at the border . even so , the destroy infrastructure , the lack of security due to the constant threat of israeli bombardment , and the huge number of people contain within such a small area mean that aid can not be distribute once it arrive . the message from aid worker be clear : an immediate ceasefire must be implement to stop the slaughter and to deliver lifesave aid to the trapped people of Gaza . how anyone in this Chamber could vote against this basic notion of humanity be beyond I and my constituent . where else in the world have there be a war in which the majority of people kill be woman and child ? they be hem in with no escape and , as one witness tell I , they be be kill like " fish in a barrel . " Andrew Gilmour , the former UN assistant secretary - general for human right , tell " Newsnight " last night that the killing of woman and child " be probably the high kill rate of any military kill anybody since the rwandan genocide of 1994 . " in Cairo , I be tell of ambulance and field hospital be target , of people with white flag be shoot on the spot and of child as young as five be pronounce dead with single sniper shot to the head . this be not a proportionate response . it be collective punishment , pure and simple , and it be a breach of international humanitarian law . who here honestly believe that this immense suffering be part of a just war ? I have listen to Prime Ministers and the Leader of the Opposition in this Chamber rightly call for justice for russian war crime in Ukraine , despite there be no judicial judgment . conversely , I have vote to recognise the genocide against the Uyghurs in Xinjiang , despite the UK Government refuse to recognise it , as they say that a genocide can only be determine by a court . yet when the International Court of Justice order Israel to take all measure within its power to prevent genocide , as there be a plausible risk , the UK Government say that " Israel ' s action … can not be describe as a genocide " . and the UK Government have not publicly call on Israel to comply with the court ' s rule — order . we have to leave it there . I welcome the opportunity for parliamentarian to have their say on find an end to this horrific conflict , which have cost so many thousand of innocent life , both israeli and palestinian . I recall come to this House in October , when the Prime Minister make his first statement . I say that we have see Hamas commit horrific terrorist act on 7 October , and those horrific terrorist act take the life of innocent people , which be unacceptable . the backdrop to today ' s debate be the terrible loss of innocent life . the Library ' s briefing outline the number of innocent life lose : 29 , 000 Palestinians , with 69 , 000 - plus injure ; 1 , 200 innocent Israelis , with 5 , 431 injure ; and 88 journalist . I write to the Prime Minister on 1 November call for humanitarian pause to get aid in and hostage out . all hostage have to be release . it be now February , and we have not be able to achieve the objective of peace or the release of those hostage . eight day of confidence - building measure , with the release of hostage , have not happen . what be my position today ? I will be vote for motion that call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire , or that call for an immediate ceasefire , because the time have come . if not now , when ? the United Kingdom be a member of the Security Council , and the Prime Minister say at Mansion House that the United Kingdom will lead and not be lead . if that be the case , we need the United Kingdom to stand up . Prime Minister Netanyahu have confirm that restriction will be impose against palestinian Muslims wish to visit the al - Aqsa mosque , one of the holy site in Islam , during Ramadan . as per international law , Israel have no sovereignty over East Jerusalem or al - Aqsa , so do the hon . Gentleman agree that that be a deliberate provocation of Palestinians ? will he join I in condemn that dangerous and discriminatory move ? as the former UK special envoy for international religious freedom , I say that all place of worship must be protect . what we see about three and a half year ago , when the al - Aqsa mosque be storm on the night of Laylat al - Qadr , be absolutely unacceptable . we be now come into the period of not only Ramadan , but Easter and Passover , which be why I say early , " if not now , when ? " . of course , I accept that we need hard - edge diplomacy to deliver on a two - state solution , an immediate ceasefire , the release of hostage and immediate humanitarian assistance go into Gaza . I write to the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister about this , but the UK can have an international donor ' conference for Palestine — we do this for friend of Syria . we be look at creative way to move forward and save all innocent life . yes , the UK need to put its position firmly out there on what we see as a two - state solution and a palestinian state . that have to be in line with the 1967 border and our position at the UN — resolution 242 . we draft that resolution and therefore we need to ensure that we deliver on it . today be the time to ensure that we deliver a ceasefire , a last peace in the region . how do I find word in my allotted three minute for the tragedy that have engulf the palestinian people ? israeli bomb have kill 30 , 000 . More than 10 , 000 child have die . the death toll per head of population be great than in any conflict since the second world war . Gaza lie in ruin . People be starve . woman be endure caesarean without anaesthetic . and yet this House have be paralyse . I vividly recall that when I be a journalist in palestinian refugee camp , Palestinians would come up to show I key to lose home their family be force to flee in what be now Israel , when advance guerrilla troop spread terror . along with their old - fashioned key , they would also show I British Palestine mandate house deed — issue by we , guarantee by the United Kingdom and stamp with the mark of the Crown . we owe they . at the very least , we owe they our voice raise in outrage at the collective punishment they be now endure in defiance of international law . we be talk about innocent people , child , baby , who be not remotely responsible for the atrocity carry out by evil Hamas . slaughtering , indiscriminately , the innocent for the crime of the guilty be the very definition of collective punishment . some say , " what ' s the point ? " . we know we can not force Netanyahu to stop bomb . but we can apply pressure . silence be tacit acceptance of Israel ' s action . we can show Palestinians , who still imagine that this House have a moral compass , that we do care passionately about their plight , we lament their suffering and we despair at the lost innocence of their child , as another generation learn to associate Israel with cruelty , extremism and hate . the vote at Westminster tonight , the second we on these Benches have call , be not and never be , as some commentator parochially claim , about embarrass political opponent . not everything be about Britain . I will not speak for colleague in other party , but I know that many outwith the SNP support our motion ; some have lose their Front - Bench job because they can not , in good conscience , remain silent . I hope the majority of Westminster MPs now feel the same . embarrassed silence will not save life . if we do not call for an immediate ceasefire now , when will we ? how many more innocent have to die ? no , it be past time for our voice to be hear loudly and unambiguously : enough bombing , enough slaughter . I , too , be on the emotional cross - party visit with Yachad to Israel and Palestine last week . we stand at the site of mass murder in Kibbutz be ' eri and Netiv HaAsara and hear with horror the account of the victim and bereaved relative of what happen there . we also stand on a bluff above Gaza City and see the artillery landing and hear the gunfire and the drone overhead . I contemplate the futility of 30 , 000 dead , and , with horror , think of the assault on Rafah and its 600 , 000 child . various thing become clear during that visit . first , there can be no military victory over Hamas — that be widely accept across the world and be be whisper even in Israel — not least because every bomb and every bullet that land be a recruiting sergeant for that appalling organisation . secondly , the security of these two people be intrinsically intertwine . anybody who be interested in the security of Israel in the future have to recognise that this conflict be make thing bad , not well , and that the security of the Palestinians be require for the security of Israel into the future . we also meet some remarkable people : Rachel Goldberg , whose son , Hersh , be still be hold by Hamas ; Maoz Inon and Yonatan Zeigin whose parent be both kill by Hamas ; and a group of young Palestinians who yearn for freedom . all of they be dedicate their life to peace . they be the thread of hope that we meet on our visit , and they offer the prospect that these two remarkable people could find a way to live side by side . then I return to the United Kingdom , Mr Deputy Speaker , to find we trap in a crazy battle of semantic . I must confess that I do not understand the difference between " ceasefire " , " pause " , " cessation " , " truce " , which be then qualified by " sustainable " , " credible " , " humanitarian " , or " one that last " . the british people think that our moral compass be spin in this House , that we have no clue what we be do any more , yet they see the body of shredded child come across the medium pretty much every day . they want three simple thing : they want the killing of Palestinians and Israelis to stop ; they want the hostage to be return ; and they want aid to flow into Gaza . our job as Back Benchers be to vote for the outcome that we want to see , not some clever process by which we might get there . it be not to second guess what the party be go to do , but to say now what we want to happen . I agree with the british people that the violence must stop . if those people who hold out the prospect of hope in Israel stand a chance , there must be an atmosphere of peace . it be Menachem Begin who say that war be avoidable , but peace be inevitable . it be time for the bloodshed to stop and for the talking to begin , and in this House , in this country , we must do what we can to make that so . we sometimes rattle off statistic in this place and they have no real meaning , but what we do know be that , in this dreadful conflict , there be 1 , 200 innocent Israelis who be brutally and evilly murder , behead , rape and kidnap on 7 October . the consequence of that have be the unfolding of utterly horrific image across the Gaza Strip , with almost 30 , 000 man , woman and child — innocent citizen — tragically kill in this brutal conflict . I will be vote for an immediate ceasefire tonight , because the fighting need to stop and it need to stop now , but I will be do so on the basis of the Opposition amendment ( a ) , which be set out so eloquently by my right hon . friend , the shadow Foreign Secretary . word matter and it matter that we call for a ceasefire — not a unilateral ceasefire , but a ceasefire of both side , otherwise it be not a ceasefire . [ interruption . ] those on the SNP Benches can laugh , but if Hamas do not lay down their arm , too , it be not a ceasefire . that be a simple fact . I want to ensure that the offensive on Rafah do not happen , that we get aid into the Gaza Strip in the quantity that we want to see . aid be not mention in the SNP motion . we need to ensure that the ICJ ' s provisional ruling be implement and uphold , because international law matter , and that we get a two - state solution and a peace process . we need to tackle the wrongdoing in the west bank . the illegal settlement have to end . we also need to ensure that there be justice for the Palestinians , and that we get a palestinian state . none of that be in the SNP motion . there be no reference to water or oxygen in the SNP motion . do the hon . Gentleman presume , therefore , that the SNP do not want people to have water or oxygen ? Don ' t be so silly , man . you know exactly what this be about . this be about stop the killing now . yes , we know exactly what it be about . the hon . Member be play party political football — [ interruption . ] he be play party political football with the most atrocious situation that be go on in the middle east . as the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) rightly say , there be a lot more that bring people together in this place . we want to see a ceasefire . we want to see an end to the killing . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . the hon . Gentleman say that I be play party politic . I be not in a political party . he should know that . that be not a point of order for the Chair ; that be part of the argument . the hon . Member can still play political football . we need a palestinian state . we need to get justice and an end to this conflict , which have last for seven decade . as those on both side of the House have say , the brutal reality , and the real tragedy , be that there be a lot of consensus but the extreme voice in the debate have be the loud . that be true in Israel and Palestine as well . it be a simple fact that the moderate voice on both side have be drown out for two decade . those who believe in a two - state solution have be leave at the edge . both the Netanyahu Government , together with his ally , and Hamas have thrive on , and need , each other ' s extremism . enough be enough . let peace prevail , and let we have a ceasefire now . I do not think that anyone in this House , or anywhere else , do not want to see a ceasefire in Gaza . I be sure that we have all be deeply move and concern by the horrific sight of people suffer in Gaza . no one want to see an escalation , and I add my voice to those say to Israel , " think very carefully before escalate your action into Rafah , " but a real ceasefire have to be an agreement between both side . unless Hamas agree to lay down their weapon and keep to a ceasefire , a ceasefire effectively become Israel surrender . we all know that Hamas be very unlikely to do that . there be a ceasefire on 6 October , and Hamas break it with the most appalling action in kill more than 1 , 200 Israelis and commit the most despicable gender - base violence , sexual assault and rape . the point have be make that the one thing glaringly miss from the SNP motion be an utter condemnation of the action of Hamas on 7 October , and their gender - base violence . [ interruption . ] will my hon . friend give way ? I will not give way , because of the time . Hamas break the ceasefire that be in place in November , when the initial tranche of hostage be release . my understanding be that Egypt propose a peace deal in December that involve a ceasefire , but Hamas refuse to take part in it . we need to be very clear in this place that the big obstacle to a ceasefire be Hamas . that be where our attention need to be . I would have far more time for SNP Members if they put just as much energy into put the focus on Hamas and call for Hamas to end their threat to Israel , to renounce violence against Israel and to remove from their charter the objective of see Israel destroy , as those member spend put the spotlight on Israel . the real barrier to a ceasefire be Hamas , not Israel . I want to see a two - state solution . I want we to be able to start recognise Palestine as a proper state , but that will never happen while Hamas continue their leadership in Palestine . the only way forward in my view be an end to Hamas and a proper ceasefire in place , so that we can start to build a two - state solution for the future peace and prosperity of Israel and Palestine , but that will not happen while Hamas stay in place . in the short time available to I , I would like to discuss the value of a palestinian life and why , for some in this place , it seem to be worth less than a ukrainian life or an israeli life . we all watch in horror as the 7 October atrocity unfold . no one in this place be not disgusted — sicken — by the act of evil of perpetrate that day . similarly , we all watch on , horrify , as Putin ' s force invade Ukraine and carry out unspeakable act . we speak as one in our complete condemnation of those act . that be where the indefensible double standard begin . Government and Labour Front Benchers be able to talk about near genocide and war crime in Ukraine , yet they be unable to do so now in respect of Gaza . I want to tell the story of just two family and the tragedy that have befall they — war crime . Associated Press report : " the sound of gunfire crackle over the phone as the teenage girl hide in the car and speak . an israeli tank be near the vehicle as she and her family be try to heed Israel ' s call to evacuate their home in Gaza . israeli troop be fire on the car , the teen say in terrified call to relative and emergency service . everyone in the vehicle be kill except she and her 5 - year - old female cousin , Hind , she say . ' they be shoot at we . the tank be next to I . ' and then there be a burst of gunfire . she scream and fall silent . " the Palestinian Red Crescent send an ambulance but lose contact with the crew . the report continue : " 12 day later , the ambulance be discover blacken and destroy . the two medic be dead . the Palestinian Red Crescent accuse israeli force of target the ambulance as it pull up near the family ' s vehicle . the organization say it have coordinate the journey with israeli force as in the past . the family car be find as well with six body , include Layan ' s and Hind ' s . " fifteen - year - old Nahed Barbakh be wave a white flag in Gaza when he be shoot dead . it be all witness by his nine - year - old sister , Rimas , who tell ITV News : " they fire and hit he in the leg and he fall . my father keep tell he to crawl back towards we . then he be hit in his neck and back … my brother Ramez want to go to he . my father grab he by the jacket but he get free and run towards Nahed . ramez try to pull he , but then he too be hit , in his heart , and fall on his brother . he look at we with a smile and then pass away . " the report go on : " she add that she can ' t sleep because she cry her ' eye out ' every time she think of her brother . " their father say : " they use loudspeaker to tell we to evacuate , when we do they kill my son before my very eye . " nowhere in Gaza be safe , even when the IDF promise that it will be . it be IDF state - sponsor barbarism . anyone in Gaza watch their daughter have a c - section under a tarpaulin without anaesthetic , pick up part of their brother from around the neighbourhood or bury a child be not worry about the wording of a motion . they want to see a ceasefire to stop all that now . do my hon . friend agree that , whatever happen tonight — whether we vote for the SNP motion or the labour - amend motion — the House should vote for a ceasefire ? that be what be need . I could not agree more . that make some of the nonsense that happen early on , which do not do this House any justice whatsoever , even more shameful . some people need to reflect on their action this day . everything that I have describe be carry out while the Government and Labour Front Benchers collectively cover their eye , put their finger in their ear and pretend not to see and hear what the rest of we can not unsee . I ask at the start what the value of a palestinian life be . honestly , that question should haunt the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition , because I can tell they that 24 Palestinians have be kill for every Israeli kill on 7 October , and that number be go up every single day that we sit here and do nothing . it have be a truism across so many of today ' s speech that we have a universal desire for the violence to stop , and for it to stop immediately . the only question that exercise we in this Chamber today be , what be the most effective method to achieve that immediate cessation of violence ? I will do the SNP the courtesy of address its motion . this be an SNP debate , and it be that party ' s motion that be important . however , as have be refer to multiple time today , the SNP motion make no reference at all to the Hamas attack on 7 October last year . it make no reference to the state intention of Hamas to repeat atrocity again and again , similar to and bad than that which be achieve on 7 October . we know that remove Hamas from Gaza — again , something that the SNP motion make no reference to — be the only way to stop civilian , israeli and palestinian , from be kill . if we address only half of the issue , we will condemn any ceasefire to failure and bring about a renew cycle of kill time and time again and a repetition of that appalling history of violence . rise — I will not give way , because I have so little time . I be sorry . the most important thing for people in the region right now be an immediate cessation of violence , which will be achieve through a humanitarian pause . such a pause would stop the fighting , get the aid in and allow for the hostage to come out . it be not delay by the wide ceasefire negotiation — those be inevitable , because this be a complex matter — but it make space for those negotiation to take place . those negotiation be go to have to deal with the release of all hostage . a one - sided ceasefire be no ceasefire at all , nor be a ceasefire that leave Hamas in possession of their hostage . the negotiation will also have to deal with the recreation of a palestinian Government for both the west bank and Gaza , free the people of Gaza from the terror of Hamas : they terrorise not just Israelis , but Palestinians too . crucially , the negotiation have to lead to a credible and irreversible pathway to a two - state solution . that all take time , but the fighting need to stop now , so the Government be absolutely right to call in their amendment for an immediate humanitarian pause to give space for ceasefire negotiation but to stop the killing now . on 13 November , I have the honour of meet Adi and Dvir Efrat , a mother and daughter kidnap by Hamas on 7 October . thankfully , they be rescue by brave IDF soldier . for the last number of week , I have stand in Parliament Square hold poster contain the name of people such as Tsachi Idan , Ran Gvili , Inbar Haiman and other who be kidnap — not just Israelis , but people from around the world who remain kidnapped today by Hamas and torture today by Hamas and its instigator the Muslim Brotherhood . all of this be a consequence ; the awful war that we be witness in Gaza be a consequence . it be a consequence of the unjustifiable attack on Israelis and jewish people on 7 October — an attack that the hon . member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) quite rightly identify as not even be mention in the motion that we be be ask to vote on today . we be not be ask to vote for the comment of the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) , no matter how sincere or mealy - mouthed they may have be ; we be be ask to vote for a motion that do not contain any word about the rape of the woman , the murder of the child or the unjustifiable attack . it be as if it do not happen ; it be as if it be invisible . other people in the 20th century deny thing that happen to Israel and jewish people . that be essentially what we be see tonight : the denial of an attack on Israel . [ interruption . ] yes , it be utterly vile that it do not appear in the motion . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . we have all hear much today about what various motion and amendment contain and do not contain . let we focus on the situation and what we all agree on : as the hon . Gentleman well know , all of we in this House condemn the despicable behaviour of Hamas . we all call for the release of the hostage — their poor family must be in absolutely terrible situation . we all want people to stop be kill , woman and child particularly , but I say to the hon . Gentleman that the remark he just make , in which he conflate thing that should never be conflate , do not show this House in the good way . we be all entitle to our view , but we need to treat this particular subject seriously and with the dignity and respect it deserve . I be sorry to tell the hon . Gentleman that he do not do that . I be sorry that the hon . Lady ' s motion , which she be ask I and other member to vote on tonight , do not contain a single word about 7 October . it be a denial , and it be invisible because it be as if it do not happen . that be what we be be ask to vote on tonight by the SNP . the tragedy of the thousand of palestinian civilian casualty in Gaza be the moral responsibility of Hamas , just as the israeli casualty be the moral responsibility and the actual responsibility of Hamas , who have deliberately and cynically initiate a high - intensity conflict in one of the most densely populate area on earth specifically to maximise civilian death and to turn global opinion against Israel . today , Israel face attack on eight front : Gaza , Iraq , Lebanon , Syria , the west bank , Yemen and Iran , plus the one the hon . member for Argyll and Bute want we to open up as another front , which be the parliamentary front against Israel . he want we to oppose Israel in this place . the SNP fail to recognise that this House can be pro - peace and pro - ceasefire , but also recognise Israel ' s right to exist , and it be a shame that the SNP could not do that tonight . I call Rob Roberts . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker — [ interruption . ] on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I hope you can direct I . I have just be call an " antisemite " by the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , and I think it be an absolute disgrace that that be where he take this debate today . Mr Speaker have point out time and again that we must use temperate language , particularly in debate that be very heated , so I would ask Members to be very careful . I do not hear what be say , but I must reinforce : please use temperate language whether you be on your foot or you be sit down yell something . I would prefer you not to yell anything , but please use temperate language . last week , I write to Israel ' s ambassador in the UK . it occur to I that , for as long as I can remember , we have hear that israeli military strength be among the great in the region , and that israeli intelligence network , lead by Mossad , one of the large espionage agency in the world , be second to none in gather information . in my letter to the ambassador , I ask why , with such a strong military that be presumably lead by such a brilliantly inform network of intelligence , it be not possible to be surgical and precise about the strike . I explain that I would be embarrassed , if I be one of they , not to be able to tell the difference between an innocent civilian and an enemy combatant . can one of the world ' s great intelligence network really not isolate and take out these terrorist without need to simply level entire city block ? if they can not strike with more precision , I say , arguably they should not be strike at all , because every time they do so , they put innocent people in harm ' s way . now , in a completely foreseeable and obvious development , have be tell to flee south by Israel , the plan seem to be to attack the southernmost city . I have to say that , if I be in the israeli military and intelligence service , I would be ashamed of some of the thing I be be ask to do . if I be in the israeli military command , I would hope that I would be brave enough to say , " stop . this isn ' t right . this be no long self - defence . " a friend of mine ask I , " why do you think they ' ll listen to your letter when they have disregard everyone else ? " I reply , " well , they probably win ' t , any more than either side will listen to call for a ceasefire . " she say , " if it ' s your view that either way both side will ignore call whatever , but you believe that stop the killing be right , and if it be your family in Gaza , why would you not vote for a ceasefire , at least for your own conscience ? " that simple point of logic from my friend win the debate , and have shape the speech I be make today . as I have mention family , I would like to take a moment to metaphorically reach out across the Chamber , as I be sure the whole House do , to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) not only for face the horror of have family trap and , indeed , kill in the region , but for have have to deal with ignorant and bigoted comment in medium interview because of her palestinian heritage . it may not always feel like it , but I be sure that if we allow ourselves to be human and not politician , the whole House would conclude that we be all with she and our heart go out to she , as indeed they do to the family of the hostage hold by Hamas . in the word of Martin Luther King : " we must accept finite disappointment , but never lose infinite hope . " I hope that this House can stop its foolish bickering , and reinforce a clear and unequivocal message of hope for the people embroil in this conflict . I hope that they can recognise the sanctity of all life , and bring this madness to an end . as the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) and for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) say early , we must not dance on the head of a pin about the wording ; we must get behind a simple message of peace . I return last night to toot from Egypt , where I have be with colleague from the International Development Committee , meet some of the world ' s lead humanitarian worker , medic , and representative on the ground of the United Nations agency in Gaza . none have ever witness a humanitarian catastrophe so hopeless and so bleak . they describe the bitter stench of death , dead body , sewage , one latrine for every 600 people , not enough water to drink or food to eat , and people eat weed grow on the roadside , or eat food make for animal . every representative speak of violation of international humanitarian law — child be shoot in both foot , people so desperate to feed their family that they run towards food truck amid gun battle , and mother wave white flag , attempt to cross the street , shoot dead in cold blood . it be truly obvious to I , as it be obvious to we all , that there have not be adequate protection of civilian . indeed , 65 % of those kill be woman and child , which be the complete opposite to every other battle and war where the majority be man of fight age . psychologist on the ground be report child under five year old talk of want to take their own life , because they have watch their sibling hang dead from building , their parent exsanguinate in front of they , and they be now leave alone to face this world . health worker have not be protect from the war , and there have be over 300 attack on health facility in Gaza . Medicine have be block at the border , and most hospital be non - function or overrun by critically injure child who be unable to be treat . yes , we need a peace process ; yes , the hostage must be free ; yes , the wheel of international law must turn ; and yes , the palestinian people must have a recognise state . but first , today , this minute , now , we must have an immediate ceasefire to save ten of thousand of life . this country have an historic responsibility to the people of the middle east , and it be in our strong national interest to secure a two - state solution . what this Parliament do today will resonate with leader , government , and people across the globe . the mother of all Parliaments have something to say , and I will say this : when we be elect to this place , we want to feel that when we be look at ourselves in the mirror in the twilight of our life , and when people no long know who we be , we will be proud of who be look back . today , let we say clearly that an immediate ceasefire must come , justice must be do , and peace must be win . War be terrible and , as we have hear today , the tragic consequence of all fighting be dreadful . War should be avoid at all cost , but sometimes it can not be . sometimes war be necessary , such as when accommodation can not be make , when there be no possibility of good faith negotiation , or when the cost of allow the enemy to go unchecked be just too great . the war in Gaza be just such a war : devastating , tragic , appalling , yes , but unavoidable because of the 7 October massacre . member have remind the House of the appalling , depraved and unspeakable crime that be commit that day against israeli civilian . any Government who do not then act to prevent such thing from happen again would be fail in their duty to protect their citizen . there simply be no other way to keep Israelis safe than to destroy Hamas . we might wish it be otherwise , but that be the reality of the situation . we be all appal by the loss of life in both Israel and Gaza , and we be all call for a pause to the fighting to allow much more humanitarian aid to get through . but to call for an unconditional ceasefire now show , I be afraid , a naive judgment of the situation on the ground . there be no moral equivalence between a bunch of murderous terrorist and rapist attack civilian with glee for the sole purpose of inflict evil . [ interruption . ] I will not give way , as so many want to get in . there be no equivalence between those murderous terrorist and a nation state use conventional force to root out a dangerous enemy , however much we may criticise their tactic . for Hamas , the civilian death , include of Palestinians , be the point of the conflict and be the point of the original attack . we must be clear that Hamas bear responsibility for all the death in this conflict . the only outcome that will secure a last peace be for Hamas to be destroy . I ask those call for an unconditional ceasefire now : do they not want Hamas to be destroy ? why be they not call for unconditional ceasefire in other conflict across the world ? why be they not call on Egypt to assist refugee , as the Polish do upon the invasion of Ukraine ? I be afraid to say that Benjamin Netanyahu be not listen to this debate . it will not change the outcome on the ground . I understand that mp be face extreme pressure . they be face threat , and I feel particularly for colleague on the Opposition Benches , but we can not allow those threat to influence our democracy , our speech in here or parliamentary procedure . those demand vote for a ceasefire tonight will not stop at that ; they will call for boycott of Israel , an arm embargo and prosecution of Israel in the UN . yet again , Israel be be single out . as the world ' s only jewish state , it be be exceptionalise . we be see the rise in antisemitism here on the street in the UK . we can not afford to give into that pressure . we must respect Israel ' s right to defend itself and to prevent the most atrocious crime that have happen in my lifetime from ever happen again . for too long , the leader of the western world , include in this Chamber and those who populate these Benches before we , have turn a blind eye to the decade - long suffering of the palestinian people — a blind eye to the occupation of their land , a blind eye to the expansion of illegal settlement and a blind eye to the theft of their home . we be and have be complicit in the continue futility of their struggle for self - determination and complicit in their pain and suffering . arm sale to Israel from this place , which be then use to murder innocent woman and child in Palestine , make we so complicit . minister will stand at that Dispatch Box time after time and attempt to justify those arm sale and those death . since 7 October and the deplorable action of that day , which have be universally condemn by my party , we have be ask to do more than turn a blind eye to the collective punishment of innocent Palestinians ; we have be ask to endorse it . if it be not collective punishment , what be it ? be it merely a conflict ? be it a war , or be it more than that ? be it genocide ? if it be , be we truly prepared to keep turn a blind eye ? we on these bench say : no long . some 30 , 000 Palestinians lie dead , and 12 , 000 be innocent child . some 60 , 000 more have be injure , their life forever alter by the horror of war . we say , " no more . " do my hon . friend agree that the focus today must be on the bloodshed and slaughter in both Israel and Gaza ? some of the antic , game and name - calling we have see today in this Chamber paint this Chamber in an unedifye light . I could not agree more with my hon . friend . she be absolutely on the money . we can not afford to sugar - coat the truth of the harsh reality be face on the ground in Israel , in Gaza and in the Occupied Palestinian Territories , or the potential for further atrocity in Rafah . two third of those who be dead be woman and child . be this just another conflict ? do that seem to be proportionate ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not , and no , it be not proportionate . we be be ask to turn a blind eye to genocide . it be high time that the world recognise it as such : genocide . that be what be happen in Israel and Palestine . innocent life be be wipe out , family be be rip apart and community aare be decimate before our very eye , never to return . the concern and the anguish that our muslim and jewish community here in the UK be experience must be intolerable , watch the life and the potential of their countryman and woman be destroy by the senseless and horrific violence be mete out upon they . their anguish be our anguish , their struggle be our struggle , and their fight for justice and peace be our fight for justice and peace . the world be watch . we need an immediate ceasefire now . the SNP motion give the House the opportunity to tell the world what kind of people we be ; what kind of world we wish to live in ; what kind of Parliament be this . I urge all those who believe in the inherent dignity and worth of every human life to stand with I , stand with we , and support our motion by vote for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza today . what I have say in private score of time before today I will now say in public . I want , my constituent want and Gaza need an immediate ceasefire . teisen . tinghuo . waqf ' iitlaq alnaar . Hafsakat - esh . Jang bandi . no matter what language we say it in , a ceasefire be what we need . in keep with the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , it be not about a sustainable ceasefire or a long - last ceasefire — which be basically just sustainable in other word — or a kind of ceasefire , in hope of a ceasefire . with 28 , 000 people now dead in Gaza — 11 , 500 of they child — play around with word be just play around with people ' s life . Israel have go too far . it have not just go too far today ; it have already go too far for month . I be concerned about Rafah , because we have hear time and again about innocent people ' s life in Gaza and how they would not be hurt , but we have reach that figure of 30 , 000 . how can we have any trust and belief that the 1 . 5 million people now in Rafah will be leave untouched ? the hon . Member be make a powerful speech . too often in this House we reflect on what happen in Rwanda and Srebrenica , and on how we do not take action . he be correct that if we do not take action now to demand a ceasefire , when will we do it ? the House have an opportunity today . for goodness ' sake , let we come together and show that we will stand up to stop the conflict , deliver peace and get to the two - state solution . I agree 100 % with the right hon . member . member on my side of the House have talk about the motion be merely symbolic or virtue signalling , but at the end of the day we be mp not to fix pothole or to follow up on whether a hedge be grow into next - door ' s garden ; we be here to protect life . we have the opportunity today to call for an immediate ceasefire . yes , that may just be signal to an extent , but that signal must be give today to Israel , one of our close ally in the region . twenty year back , with the United States in Iraq , we think we be be the good friend by go along with they . no . the well friend say , " no , this must stop now ; this must stop today . " a ceasefire must happen now . no long in good conscience can I continue to back in public the line that Government Members have take , regrettably . even from a geostrategic perspective , I do not see what favour that do for Israel in the long term . Israel have have a difficult time in the region that it be sit in , but this will not create any more friend for Israel . I come from Northern Ireland — I see the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , a villager from the same neck of the wood as I — where , in the last 30 to 40 year , 3 , 500 people die in the trouble , and I know the trauma that have cause . but in five month , 30 , 000 people have die — how will people ever get over that ? in our experience , Hamas be bad people , and they have to be call out . the people behind they have to be obliterate . we do not want to work with Hamas . the SNP motion could have go far to call out Hamas . we in Northern Ireland have deal with those trouble , when very bad people hide behind political leadership . the ceasefire must happen . that be also in the interest of Israel in the long term . now be the time for the United Kingdom to step up and take a leadership position with other middle power , not wait for the next United States election . in my own good conscience , I can not acquiesce to the Government ' s position on Gaza anymore , and neither can the people of Bolton . although you sit diagonal to I today , you be not diametrically opposed to I — Order . I call Alan Brown . this call for an immediate ceasefire be about limit the horrific slaughter to the 30 , 000 civilian already kill , and stop more civilian from be kill by bomb and bullet , starve to death or die from disease . currently , one in six child in the north Gaza under the age of two be suffer from malnutrition , and 90 % of child across Gaza under the age of five be already affect by one or more infectious disease . we know that aid be available , but it be block by Israel , which breach the interim ICJ ruling . if denial of electricity , food , water and medicine be not collective punishment , what be it ? it need to be call out for what it be , and Labour and the Tories need to look at that . the 2 million displace citizen by the instruction of the occupy power breach international law by violate article 49 of the Geneva convention . where be the condemnation from the Government and labour of the displacement of civilian ? on reprisal , the Hamas attack be brutal , but 25 innocent palestinian civilian death for every israeli death be not justice . the ICJ will make a judgment on genocide , but the israeli ambassador state : " every school , every mosque , every second house have access to tunnel " . she ask Iain Dale live on air in the UK if there be any solution other than destroy every building in Gaza — she be justify genocide in term of physical destruction , which be a breach of article 2 of the convention on genocide . where be the condemnation of those comment by the israeli ambassador to the UK ? there be a deathly silence . rightly , when debate the merit of ceasefire , the issue of the release of hostage come up . it be quite clear that a ceasefire be require if there be to be any chance of they be release safely . it be obvious that unless there be a ceasefire , the hostage be also at risk of death from disease and starvation , or even be kill by the IDF , who unfortunately have already kill some of their own brother . perhaps it be time to listen to the brave family of the hostage , who have protest against Netanyahu and call for a different approach . it be time to listen to organisation such as Jews for Justice for Palestinians , or the 25 humanitarian organisation demand an immediate ceasefire . it be horrific to hear that humanitarian aid worker be die right now before we . it really be time for a ceasefire , and then to look at build a two - state solution and help the survivor , who will be traumatise for life . I believe that everyone in this House want to see peace in the middle east . we all want the killing to stop . I be not sure that I would be able to speak today , because I get a green card from a constituent who be in his late 80 who come up to Parliament . I think it be my duty to speak to he , because he be so concerned about the plight of the palestinian people and what be happen in Gaza . when I be on doorstep over the recess , I speak a constituent who be married to a palestinian man . he come to the door and tell I that he have lose 20 member of his family in Gaza . I welcome the opportunity to speak on the SNP Opposition day motion , but I do not think that we can forget the event of 7 October . we can not forget that it be a shocking and barbaric attack by a terrorist organisation — I believe that we be unite on that point . More than 1 , 400 people be murder , one by one . More than 3 , 500 be wound , and almost 200 be take hostage . innocent woman be rape , their body desecrate and even booby - trap to kill other when they find they . in the wake of that heinous attack , Israel have not only the right but the duty to protect its citizen and oppose the grave threat present by Hamas , which have not go away . however — I think this be very important — there be a night - and - day distinction between Hamas terrorist and innocent palestinian civilian who be face a devastating and grow humanitarian crisis every day . that be why it be incumbent on Israel to do all that it can to minimise civilian casualty by ensure that its campaign target Hamas leader and operative as much as possible . make no mistake : all of we in this place want to see a ceasefire , but it must be a sustainable ceasefire . the reason I can not support the opposition motion be that it completely ignore the fact that Hamas be still hold more than 100 innocent Israelis captive in Gaza . no nation can be expect to abandon its own citizen to captivity , and in the Opposition motion the ceasefire be not see as contingent on the release of those hostage . it be the release of hostage that be the key to sustainable peace , and that be why I support the Government ' s amendment . I think it be moderate , and I think it recognise the balancing of interest in a very difficult region . rise — order . there be no further speaker on the Government side , so if member can say what they need to say in few than three minute , they will be help their colleague . I will endeavour to do that , Mr Deputy Speaker . I think we all abhor the death by Hamas on 7 October , as we all should , particularly those of israeli peace activist . I can hazard a guess at what they would have want , and it be certainly not what have unfold . the death on 7 October , or on 6 October , or at whatever time before or since , be all very sad and lamentable . in August 2023 , the United Nations note that 172 people have be kill by israeli force on the west bank alone — not in Gaza , but on the west bank . why do the UN report that figure in August ? because it have pass the grisly milestone of 170 kill on the west bank in the entirety of 2022 . it be sad that this have be go on for so long — too long . the killing by Israel of 25 time as many people as be kill by Hamas on 7 October be another grisly and sad fact , especially as the majority of the 30 , 000 dead be child and woman . there can be no room for hate , and we all condemn antisemitism for fear of where it can lead and have lead in the past , but we see daily on our television where anti - Palestinianism have lead : it have lead to genocide . the Labour amendment support effort to achieve a last ceasefire , not a call for a ceasefire but effort to achieve it . the Tory amendment talk of " move towards a permanent sustainable ceasefire " . the main motion talk of a ceasefire , mean that this have to stop . what be or be not in the motion be beside the point ; it be not a history motion , but a ceasefire motion to stop the killing of people . if I be to be critical of the SNP — and I be not in the SNP — I would say just one thing to its member . effort to establish any sort of relationship with the Labour leader have not work well , and they do not bode well for the time after any election when they hope to secure a referendum . however , that be beside the point . the House can not impose a ceasefire , but it can be an important domino towards that ceasefire . it can be good for the immediate saving of life , and it can mean a safe future for Israel itself in the long term . the alternative to a ceasefire be to continue fire , and that will mean the death of hundred and thousand and perhaps ten of thousand more people . no more , Mr Deputy Speaker , no more . the SNP motion today raise the important point that we must all be call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , specifically to prevent the impending humanitarian catastrophe in Rafah , which can not be allow to continue . however , I can not vote for the SNP motion without the amendment table by my party . labour ' s amendment provide an opportunity for the whole House to speak with one voice and call for a ceasefire that be sustainable ; one that will last and put an end to the starvation , suffering , injury and death that have go on for far too long . that be why we can not call for a ceasefire without an amendment that understand that Israel can not be expect to cease fight while Hamas continue with violence and hold hostage . we can not have a meaningful and endure ceasefire if we do not recognise that it must , by definition , be two - sided . all palestinian civilian in Gaza must be protect . Hamas must be disarm and have no role in the future governance of Gaza . all hostage must be free and return to their family . the international community must act to instigate a Marshall plan for rebuild Gaza and the innocent life of all those touch by this conflict . without those condition , I fear any ceasefire would be unsustainable and would simply destabilise the environment far , cause more suffering . with Labour ' s amendment , the House have an opportunity to come together alongside our colleague in Australia , New Zealand and Canada and call for an end to this horrific period of violence . a ceasefire must stand as the start of a new chapter . there must be genuine progress towards a negotiate two state - solution . the international community must play its role in create a pathway towards the establishment of a viable and independent palestinian state , recognise as such — one that can thrive in peace side by side with Israel , within secure and recognise border , with Hamas ' s operation demilitarise and their weapon decommission beyond use . colleague from across this House should join our call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire with a clear plan for how that can be achieve , and vote for our amendment tonight . the situation in Gaza be beyond horrific . around 1 . 5 million people have be squeeze into the city of Rafah , where they flee after the israeli Government tell they it be a safe zone . they flee believe they be escape the horror of bombing , but that be not the case . we have all see the video and hear the story of the horror come out of Gaza . we have see the story of kid be force to have their limb amputate without anaesthetic . we have see the story of woman be force to use scrap of cloth from tent as sanitary product . we have see the story of journalist kill while try to document the israeli Government ' s atrocity so that the world can see . indeed , just recently , we hear the tragic story of six - year - old Hind Rajab . because of a conflict that be not of her making , and because of this government and this place ' s unwillingness to take meaningful and effective action , Hind have become yet another casualty of the israeli Government ' s vendetta in Gaza — a six - year - old casualty . let history remember they . let history remember what we do here tonight . it be a simple fact that the good way — the only way — to guarantee not only the safety of the palestinian population in Gaza , but the release of all remain hostage be through an immediate ceasefire . it be not through continuously bomb a civilian population or continuously move the people of Gaza from one area to another , and it be certainly not by assault the last remain safe zone in Gaza . it be time for we all to show moral courage and recognise that the only way to bring an end to the suffering be by vote for an immediate ceasefire . we see injured Palestinians force to travel south on foot as there be no ambulance available , and think : surely now they have to back a ceasefire . we see a pregnant woman burn to death , and think : surely now they have to back a ceasefire . we see hospital and safe route bomb , and think : surely now they have to back a ceasefire . we see premature baby die in incubator , and think : surely now they have to back a ceasefire . we see white phosphoru fall from the sky , and think : surely now they have to back a ceasefire . now we be see a death toll of almost 30 , 000 civilian , most of whom be woman and child . surely now , tonight , they all have to back a ceasefire . we need to recognise the gendered face of conflict , as the hon . Member have say . Hamas have weaponise sexual violence against female civilian in Israel , and UN expert warn on Monday that the IDF may have kill palestinian woman and girl who be hold white flag . do the hon . Member agree that we need an immediate bilateral ceasefire ? I agree with the hon . member that we absolutely need a ceasefire and that we need a ceasefire now , so I hope she join I in vote for the SNP motion this evening . People across these isle , include many of my constituent in East Dunbartonshire , demand through marche , rally , petition and email that the UK Government back a ceasefire . we must end the suffering . we must stop this humanitarian tragedy . we must have a ceasefire now . some 23 % of my casework since October have be on the humanitarian disaster in Israel and Gaza . the vast majority of my constituent seek a ceasefire , and to see the death and destruction of community , and the intolerable and unimaginable misery of innocent civilian , bring to an end . angus constituent also highlight Israel ' s right to defend itself and the plight of the people who be slaughter by the murderous criminal terrorist who be the member of Hamas in their appalling attack on 7 October . I have unity with all my constituent in their vary ambition , because the situation in Gaza be a disaster for everybody , no one more so than the innocent civilian within Gaza itself , but also for the people of Israel . I refuse to believe that we have some sort of moral superiority in this country when we call for a ceasefire . I also believe that there be people — good people — in Israel who be desperately sad at what be happen to innocent people in Gaza . that be why we need to give voice to they , and their ambition , in this Parliament and in this state . have the hon . Gentleman , like I , be strike — I be sure he have — by the extraordinary number of decent ordinary constituent , who normally would not get in touch with their MP , get in touch on this particular issue ? yes , I have . that be why it be a great sadness that it have take so long for this Parliament to have such an in - depth debate on this global issue of utter catastrophe . I be very pleased that my SNP colleague have table this Opposition Day motion , which be important in allow member on both side of the House to give voice to their constituent ' anguish over what be an utter disaster zone : 30 , 000 civilian dead ; a stain on all our conscience . civilian who play no part in the atrocity of 7 October — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will make progress . too many member need an in . we be approach five month of intolerable incarceration for those who be take hostage on 7 October . try to extract the remain of your family from the rubble do not bear contemplation . as the state of Israel , you know you be in difficult territory when the United States of America tell you that you have go over the top . the semantic in this Chamber be much to be regret : a debate on the type of ceasefire be an indulgence that people who be not live in fear for their life can allow themselves . a ceasefire be a self - explanatory , simple term , which the people of Gaza would very much like we to get to grip with and move in one motion or one amendment , so that the people of the United Kingdom can have their voice hear on this issue . one troubling issue be the false equivalence that pervade the debate . the 30 , 000 civilian death in Gaza do not atone for the tragedy that befell israeli civilian . the IDF represent the democratically elect Government of the state of Israel and the people of Israel . Hamas do not represent the people of Gaza . the equivalence be completely false . what be most important be that humanity must prevail , whatever the detail . that be why I will be support the SNP motion . we have hear some compelling speech today . my hon . friend the Member for Tooting ( Dr Allin - Khan ) , the hon . member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Ms Qaisar ) , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) and many other member give the perspective of people on the ground live in that hell that be Gaza right now . we should listen carefully to their incredibly powerful contribution . I be proud to speak to the amendment table in the name of my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition , and it be important to focus on what it say . the amendment say that we oppose the ground offensive in Rafah , which " risk catastrophic humanitarian consequence " . it would put we in line with " Australia , Canada and New Zealand ' s call for Hamas to release and return all hostage and for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire . " the amendment call for " rapid and unimpeded humanitarian relief " for the people of Gaza , " demand an end to the settlement expansion and violence " and " urge Israel to comply with the International Court of Justice ' s provisional measure " . the amendment also demand a two - state solution , to which the people of Palestine be entitle , and say that palestinian statehood be " not in the gift of any neighbour . " I challenge the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) to tell we what be wrong with the amendment . we have hear many speech from Conservative Members , and not a single one have outline what they oppose in the amendment . anybody who say that they be in favour of an immediate ceasefire be compel to support the amendment or explain why they do not . it be not enough simply to say that they be support the Government motion , because that be very different . the Government motion call for a pause , not a ceasefire . this be not semantic . a pause mean that the fighting be interrupt but then continue . a ceasefire continue to hold until someone break it , which be very different . the Government motion do not oppose the action in Rafah or speak about the need for a palestinian state . the Government motion do not bring we in line with our colleague in Australia , Canada and New Zealand , and it do not urge Israel to comply with the ICJ verdict . I be afraid that people who vote for the Government motion but do not vote for the Labour amendment be vote against all those thing , and it be really important that that message be hear . I be very pleased to hear that the SNP will support the Labour amendment . the party be right to do so , and I hope that all those — from both side of the House — who have argue powerfully in this debate for an immediate ceasefire will support the Labour amendment and see this House unite behind those word . this be a really important day for all of we in this House . our constituent have write to we in drove , ask we to speak out for a humanitarian end to the crisis . I want to reflect on some of the speech we have hear from right across the House , particularly that of the hon . member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) . he say , " if not now , when ? " that be a question we should all be ask ourselves . as a Chamber , we be very good when we reflect on the horror of genocide , when we think about what happen in Srebrenica , Rwanda and Darfur , and we ask ourselves why we do not stop the killing in those situation . yet here we be again . twenty - nine thousand people — woman and child — have be murder . why ? we be member of the UN Security Council and in a position of leadership , and we should be stand up today . yes , we extend a hand of friendship to our ally in Israel , but we see that the only way we can resolve this be if we have an end to the fighting now . we recognise everything we have say about the two - state solution over many decade , and we now have to push on . we be politician and diplomat , and we be mean to improve people ' s life . we have come together , thankfully , to support our friend in Ukraine . the House have come together to say that Putin must be defeat , but we need to recognise that we can not have any more of the needless slaughter take place in Gaza . yes , we want to see Israelis be able to live in peace and security . yes , of course we want the removal of Hamas — that vile terrorist organisation — but for goodness ' sake , today be the day that we must come together . let we stand united . let we say , " no more should innocent civilian lose their life in Gaza . " let we make sure that today be one that this House can be proud of . when the House last vote on a ceasefire in November , 11 , 320 Palestinians have be kill , include 4 , 650 child . when the ICJ ' s plausible genocide ruling make clear the right of Palestinians to be protect from genocide , the death toll in Gaza have surpass 26 , 000 . I find myself ask again — just as I ask when 10 , 000 be kill and when 20 , 000 be kill — now that over 29 , 000 man , woman and child have be kill , whether this Government believe that there should be any limit at all to the number of civilian slaughter . People all over the UK be struggle to grapple with the fact that the Government seem not to understand that starve civilian , destroy school and hospital , and target refugee camp can never be view as part of a legitimate military campaign . we can not allow benchmark of humanity to be erode in the way that we be see in Gaza . this can not be the future . I shall keep my remark brief , but I want to talk about the chilling , shock disregard for palestinian life and the dehumanisation and racism that we have witness across much of the mainstream UK political establishment . any expression of palestinian identity have all too often be deem unacceptable over the recent period , and long before . I be shock by this , member on all side of the House be shock by this , the general public be shock by this and country all over the world be shock by this , yet the US continue to use its power , along with the UK , to ensure that this nightmare continue . this be utterly shocking and it will never , ever be forget . why be Palestinians be treat differently and deny any sense of humanity ? why be palestinian life and dignity not be protect ? I will be vote for a ceasefire again tonight and I will continue to do so until the horror of what be happen stop . I urge other to do the same , because human right be inalienable , because all live matter — israeli and palestinian — and because the weight of duty and history be on our shoulder . today my boy celebrate their 18th birthday , so for I this be a special moment , in that I hope we will come to a decision that will make the world that they step into as adult a well place . I would have hope that one of the most serious humanitarian crisis in live memory would have bring consensus instead of competition . we be suppose to be vote to bring peace to a deeply polarise conflict , but that will not be achieve by political factionalism in this place . despite accusation of tribalism in the scottish independence movement , Alba intend , as we have often do before , to support the SNP motion today . my party ' s position be set out by my party leader Alex Salmond on 9 October : " there have be a long and sorry catalogue of atrocity throughout the history of this conflict . terrorist action against civilian can never be justify and neither can military reprisal which lead to kill and maiming of child . both side should be tell by the international community to now choose the path of de - escalation and ceasefire . there can be no lasting settlement which ignore long - stand United Nations resolution and there be no path to peace which can be initiate by violence against civilian . " he be right , as have be evidence by the subsequent violence , death and destruction . this serve no one , and an end to bloodshed should be the only guide principle we observe . at the start of the current conflict , many of we meet a young israeli man who have lose both of his peace - campaign parent in the 7 October attack . despite his loss , his appeal be for de - escalation , peace and the amplification of moderate voice in Israel . he describe the anger in his country towards the current israeli Government . we have also hear from palestinian representative who have lose every generation of their family in the ensue IDF attack . those family have follow the instruction from Israel to move to the south of Gaza but they be wipe out anyway . we have hear testimony from Human Rights Watch and reporter without Borders , which be witness to allege war crime . the ICJ have find it plausible that Israel ' s action may amount to genocide . the jewish Voice for Peace rabbinical council have condemn the continue violence against Palestinians and those country that support and enable it . if this House can not co - operate , and if it call those of we who seek peace naive on a matter of such humanitarian significance , how can we expect other who be so invest in this conflict to lay down their arm and talk ? member across the Chamber have set out , in move term , the context and the consequence of the last few month in Gaza , so I will not try to capture it . I work for relief and development agency for 10 year before be elect to this place , and I never encounter a humanitarian context as hellish as the people of Gaza be experience . our constituent be watch in desperation and distress , and they feel powerless to the point of complicity . that be not the main issue , but it have consequence for their faith in politic and international law , and I want to give voice to the feeling of dread that people feel when the image they have see on their screen become permanently etch in their mind . I feel the same way . I look at my sweet , smile , innocent six - year - old daughter , and I see a six - year - old trap in a car for day , with nobody listen to her cry , surround by the body of all the people she love . those story will never leave people . bad , people who express basic human emotion and solidarity with people who face the unimaginable be be meet with slur and distortion . they be smear as be pro - Hamas and slur as be antisemitic , as we hear in this Chamber just a few moment ago . like most of my constituent , I stand in full solidarity with the victim of the wicked Hamas attack of 7 October . those vile , indefensible attack be carry out by a cynical organisation that have not allow the people of Gaza to vote for a generation , but the attack do not justify the horror that have follow . I defend Israel ' s right to exist . I stand in solidarity with jewish people here and around the world , include those stand against the far - right Netanyahu Government and their excess throughout the last summer . Netanyahu be a man who , in word and deed , have repudiate the two - state solution that many of we in this Chamber advocate , and that be the only possible outcome that do not condemn the region to year of this nightmare . comparison between the middle east and Northern Ireland be shallow , and I avoid make they . the one lesson that can be learn be that the first step be to stop the killing . those who ask for a permanent ceasefire be set an impossibly high bar . even when the paramilitary be drag to that point in Northern Ireland , it take a decade for their ceasefire to be make permanent . we need to stop the bomb and the rocket , we need to release the hostage , we need to release the aid , and then we need to work every day to make it sustainable . only politic can do that . there be no military solution here , and there never be . I do not care which amendment be pass tonight and I do not care about the form of word , so long as this House send a clear message call for international momentum towards an end to this slaughter and a pathway to a just and last settlement . Israel have fail to reach its objective . if we do not support a ceasefire now , when will we ? obviously , Israel be entitle to defend itself . it be unquestionable that Hamas ' s action be totally reprehensible , but we be long past the point at which israeli action be legitimate . it have not be a matter of day or week ; it be now month . Israel have go beyond what international law view as acceptable . what Israel be now do be not a natural consequence of what Hamas do , which be evil and wicked — the retention of prisoner and the holding of hostage remain so . what be now happen be not a consequence ; it be deliberate . Israel be act to the plan of Netanyahu and other to make Gaza unliveable , which be why we have to support a ceasefire and call out Israel ' s action . Israel be not simply defend its own . it be not simply look for hostage in tunnel ; it be crush the life out of Gaza so that it will be unliveable , not for week or month but for year , if not forever . it be Israel ' s intention to flatten Gaza , which be why we have to require not just an immediate ceasefire but , ultimately , genuine peace . that come back to the role of Britain , which have be supine towards Israel and towards the US . the tragedy now be that it be move from be supine , in fail to vote at the UN , to be complicit . we know that RAF Akrotiri be not simply be use by the RAF to fly into Israel ; we have hand it over to the US so that it can move thing into Israel . of course , when we ask the UK Government what America be move from Cyprus into Israel , they can not answer . when we ask the Americans , they say , " we can ' t tell you , because it be a british base . " this be a deliberate distortion , in order to allow Israel to be supply through the UK , act in complicity with the USA . we also know that intelligence be be use and carry out by Britain , and that it be be share with other . we be tell it relate to the hostage , but what else do we know ? we be simply not tell . we know that the British Army be train the IDF and that the british military machine be see company make huge profit . the time have come for an immediate ceasefire , but the time have also come for the UK to stop be complicit with the United States , to stop be supine to Israel and to stand up for humanity . the develop world be speak out and it be about time the UK stand with it . everyone here know that what be unfold in Rafah , in a refugee camp the size of Cardiff , but with treble the number of people cram within its boundary , be an irrevocable disaster . yet in the light of that evidence , the Government ' s refusal to support call for a ceasefire be shameful . that be important , as it be do reputational damage to the UK ' s interest at home and abroad . while dismiss a ceasefire , the Government claim to be work to prevent the loss of civilian life in Gaza . but where be the action and the urgency ? what could the Government be do to make a difference ? where be the export ban of arm to Israel , give the clear evidence of their use against civilian ? where be the diplomatic pressure on the israeli Government to comply with the ICJ ruling ? where be the UK effort to restore funding to the UN in Palestine , give the dire humanitarian situation there ? where , even , be the provision of treatment for injured palestinian child in UK specialist hospital ? those be all thing we could do tomorrow . Emily fare of Llwyngwril , who be my constituent and british citizen , be desperately seek support via crowdfunde to bring over family member from Gaza . she tell I this morning : " my father - in - law be message I most of the night as Al Mawasi come under intense fire . on loudspeaker israeli force be ask displace woman and child to stay in their tent , and for man to surrender themselves . we do not hear until this morning that his brother and sister and child survive . this be mean to be a designated safe zone . they be live in terror . " the Government must be aware that the inconsistency with which Palestinians seek to escape a warzone be be treat be set to be the subject of a legal challenge . my constituent have see the support provide by the UK Government to ukrainian refugee for two year . both she and I can conclude only that the lack of similar support to refugee first from Afghanistan and now from Palestine must now be morally and legally question . will the Minister justify to Emily why there be no such scheme for people trap in Gaza ? we know that only a diplomatic mean can solve this crisis , which have bring so many new horror since 7 October — one where the fighting stop , where israeli hostage and palestinian prisoner be release and where , finally , there be a route to a sustainable two - state solution . the long we allow death and violence to continue , the more the rise reactionary force of antisemitism and Islamophobia will continue to spread through all our community . I have listen intently to those member who be support the Government amendment , and they be ask we to ignore two key fact . they be ask we to ignore the International Criminal Court investigation into war crime and crime against humanity by Israel , and they be ask we to ignore the order from the International Court of Justice , which urge the UK Government to uphold their own legal obligation to prevent Israel from commit genocide . difficult though it may seem for some , the act of voting today for an immediate ceasefire be the simple of action require of member of this House . the hard task be find an effective mean of apply pressure to do so . we could start with halt the provision of arm to Israel . the UK Government already have the mean to do so through article 6 and 7 of the arm trade treaty , which they have sign and which ban sale where there be a concern that arm may be use to breach international law . a YouGov poll in December show that 71 % of the UK public believe that there should be an immediate ceasefire in Israel and Palestine , with only 12 % against . the military escalation since then , and the impending threat to Rafah , have only strengthen those view . as Oxfam point out , more than 100 country , include Canada , Australia , and New Zealand , support an immediate ceasefire . these number will grow and we may increasingly find ourselves on the wrong side of history and humanity . both the international community and our own individual constituent be aware of what be continue to happen . Israel have intensify the airstrike on Rafah ahead of its threaten ground offensive . let we remember that Rafah have 1 . 5 million people , include half a million child , all shielding in 20 % of the Gaza Strip , without access to adequate shelter , water , food , and medical facility . that need to stop . I be bless to represent a diverse constituency . like so many other , I have have local organisation write to I . I wish to end with the word from the Crookston Community Group , which be represent by people of all faith and of none . " in the midst of conflict and turmoil , the pursuit of peace become more crucial than ever . a ceasefire between Palestinians and Israelis be not just a regional issue ; it be a call for humanity to come together and prioritise dialogue over violence . by embrace peace , we can pave the way for a bright future for all mankind . " I ask all member to support the motion . order . after Richard Foord , there will be only Labour Members leave to speak . if they can lose a couple of paragraph from their speech , they will be really help their colleague . I will spend my three minute draw on some lesson from counter - insurgency campaign in year go by and then I want to quote from one of my constituent . when we talk about be a friend of Israel , we should think about what a friend be . to my mind , be a friend involve be listen to . at present , I see no evidence that the british Government be be listen to by Israel . this be particularly evident when the Foreign Secretary say that the UK might recognise a palestinian state . it be a suggestion that have be utterly rebuff by Benjamin Netanyahu . the insurgent — Hamas terrorist if you prefer — seek on 7 October to provoke an excessive reaction . fifteen year ago , counter - insurgency expert David Kilcullen write : " if insurgent can provoke an excessive government reaction against a population , this can become a very powerful motivator for retributive action . " on this basis , the terrorist who cheer those atrocity on 7 October — the film of they be terrible disgusting and appalling — be still celebrate , because another generation will mourn dead parent and dead child and be attract magnetically to Islamism , to the very islamist ideology that Israel be try to expunge by destroy Hamas . a more successful counter - insurgency campaign would have seek to use distinction to distinguish the terrorist from the innocent — to separate the insurgent from their support . a more successful counter - insurgency campaign would have use proportionality — not parity of life lose , but a response that be proportionate to a limited military objective . a more successful counter - insurgency campaign would have involve long - term post - insurgency planning of the sort the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) say early should have happen in advance of Israel send in tank . I be proud to represent Rupert Joy , a former senior british ambassador who serve in several country in the middle east and north Africa . he write to I : " David Cameron ' s statement that Britain could formally recognise a palestinian state — before the end of negotiation — be an important step . it could serve to right historical wrong , and give Palestinians hope for the future . but I remain deeply concerned that the UK Government ' s response to Israel ' s indiscriminate action in Gaza and the rhetoric be not only ineffectual and morally indefensible but hugely damaging to the UK ' s current global standing and international interest " . I will vote this evening in favour of the motion or amendment that call for an immediate ceasefire , because I be remind of Tacitus , who write in " Agricola " : " they create a desert and call it peace . " in January , I visit Israel and see for myself the aftermath of Hamas ' s attack last October . in the kibbutz Kfar Aza , I walk the burn - out street and see the home , raze to the ground . this be not the scene of a battle , but of a well - plan and ruthlessly execute massacre : a pogrom . surprise as they sleep in their bed , the resident have no chance to defend themselves . More than 60 people be murder , 20 be take hostage , and an unknown number of woman be subject to horrific act of rape , torture and mutilation . such scene be repeat throughout the border community of southern Israel , and at the Nova music festival , where more than 360 young people be murder . in Tel Aviv , I visit the exhibition that tell the story of the festival and the appalling event that unfold there . our guide , a survivor who have help to organise the festival , tell we that she have lose so many friend in those few bloody hour that she have to choose which of their funeral to attend . we urgently need an end to the fighting , and a permanent and sustainable ceasefire in Gaza , but that require the perpetrator of the 7 October attack to be disarm , and to have no part in the future governance of Gaza , so that they can never again — as they have repeatedly pledge to — repeat the horrific crime that they commit against israeli man , woman and child nearly 140 day ago . it also require Hamas to immediately release the more than 130 hostage that they continue to hold — hostage who we know Hamas have beat , torture and rape . among the hostage be the british citizen Nadav Popplewell , whose sister Ayelet Svatitzky I meet in Israel . Ayelet ' s 79 - year - old mother , Channah , be also seize at the kibbutz Nirim , and her brother Roi be shoot and kill behind his home at the kibbutz . I also want to mention event close to home . within hour of the Hamas attack , anti - Israel protester mass outside the israeli embassy in London , and they have continue to demonstrate in our town and city ever since . some have chant antisemitic slogan and carry racist sign . other have glorify Hamas ' s butchery , and many more appear not to have notice , or not to have be concern , by what be occur around they . this manichean view of the conflict , which seek to cast one side as victim and the other as villain , will do nothing to promote or far a desperately need , genuine peace process that fulfil the Israelis ' right to security and the Palestinians ' right to self - determination . I do not doubt the sincerity of those in this House who take a different view on Israel ' s action in Gaza . we all feel distraught at the suffering of innocent civilian in Gaza . we all know that there must be a massive and immediate increase in humanitarian aid . we all fear the impact of a significant israeli military operation in Rafah ; however , the SNP motion be one - sided , and do not — order . I call Sam Tarry . like so many in Ilford , I have watch with horror the death of so many innocent civilian in Israel and Gaza . I have receive literally ten of thousand of email , letter and phone call from constituent of all background , faith and political persuasion , and from the mosque , temple and church , include the church in Ilford that have raise money for Gazan hospital for over 40 year . they be outrage by the atrocity that they have be witness , livestreame for the past four month , and they will no doubt watch how all of we vote in this Chamber today . Israel of course have a right to defend itself , and no one here be deny the horror of the 7 October attack , which see the large loss of jewish life since the holocaust . we must be clear , though , that the subsequent action of the IDF in the past five month have go far beyond self - defence . the scale of the carnage of the ground be unimaginable . the humanitarian system have collapse . thousand of civilian man , woman and child be die in their drove , with refugee camp , religious building , school and UN facility target and level on a daily basis . at the same time as those atrocity , we have hear repeat chilling remark from top israeli Government Ministers appear to condone and encourage those action . the Minister for Agriculture call the war " the Gaza Nakba " , the Minister for Heritage raise the idea of drop an atomic bomb to flatten Gaza , the Minister of National Security state that encourage emigration from Gaza be a necessity , the Defence Minister say that they be fight " human animal " , and the israeli Prime Minister himself compare Gaza to Amalek , reference a Bible passage that say : " now go , attack the Amalekites and totally destroy all that belong to they . do not spare they ; put to death man and woman , child and infant , cattle and sheep , camel and donkey . " I note that a motion be propose in the Knesset yesterday say that it would never , ever support a two - state solution . those be not cherry - pick comment . they be statement from top israeli Government Ministers . that rhetoric be a key component of the ICJ ' s rule that South Africa ' s claim of genocide in Gaza be plausible . the place of Gazans , we be tell , would be safe if they flee to Rafah . that be why , as we listen to that language , we dread the devastation that be about to be unleash , and why only an immediate and permanent ceasefire would halt that violence . we must work with neighbour arab nation to facilitate the release of the hostage , and to allow for the restoration of essential service and for international humanitarian assistance to reach those in need . we must not stop at a ceasefire . the international community must use this moment to facilitate a dialogue that build a genuine and last peace . we must put our faith in the ordinary people of Palestine and Israel for a peaceful solution . every member of this House will have be horrify by the bloodshed , suffering and horror witness on our tv screen night after night . many of we will never look at the world in the same way again . the question that we have to ask ourselves today be : what we be go to do about it ? how do we use our influence as a nation , as a member of the UN Security Council , and as a country with huge diplomatic weight , to help put an end to the nightmare that we be witness ? in late October , I table a motion call for an immediate ceasefire , which be subsequently sign by 100 mp . at that time , around 5 , 000 people in Gaza and Israel have lose their life . when this House first vote on a ceasefire in mid - November , around 11 , 000 Palestinians have be kill . have Parliament do the right thing then , it could have be part of a global push for action that save life , but this House fail . let it not fail again today . now 29 , 000 Palestinians have be kill , two third of whom be woman and child , so the priority for we all must be to do everything in our power to help stop the loss of any more civilian life , and that mean back an immediate ceasefire . the UN Secretary - General , the vast majority of government , and some of the world ' s most respected human right body , include Oxfam and Amnesty International , back an immediate ceasefire . and let we be totally clear : so do three quarter of the british public . it be shameful that our Government have repeatedly refuse to support one . as the UN Secretary - General say in October , those heinous attack — crime that we all condemn — by Hamas in October " do not justify respond with collective punishment of the palestinian people . " an immediate ceasefire would save civilian life , allow the aid need to enter Gaza , and help to ensure the safe release of the israeli hostage . it could be the catalyst for the peace process that we need and for a way of meet the International Criminal Court ruling on the genocide convention . the alternative be thousand more death , ever deep human suffering , more war crime and the risk of a wide regional war , so it fall to every one of we today to send a signal to our Government to do the right thing ; to demand that they use every diplomatic channel to push , if possible , for an immediate ceasefire as the key way to help bring an end to this crisis . tonight , I will vote for an immediate ceasefire . every other MP should do the same . enough be enough the Prime Minister have on several occasion stand before this House and profess his support for a two - state solution to the crisis in the middle east . on that , I agree with he wholeheartedly . a viable and sovereign Palestine co - exist with a safe and secure Israel be the only path towards peace that remain open . indeed , when I put that very question to the Prime Minister in October , during a statement to the House , he respond that he would recognise Palestine as a state when the time be right . if the time be not right now , when be it go to be ? it be precisely for that reason that I will vote to support an immediate ceasefire today . the violence in Gaza have now leave over 30 , 000 dead , with million displace . it be therefore clear that if the violence continue , the prospect of a two - state solution diminish , along with any hope of a lasting and just peace for the region . that be why I believe any commitment to a two - state solution must be more than word ; it must be match by action and deed . the good action towards that goal would be for the UK to work towards an immediate ceasefire , the release of any remain hostage , and the recognition of a viable and sovereign palestinian state . the vast majority of british people want a ceasefire . the path to peace will be a political solution : violence and military action will not achieve peace . the member of the United Nations Security Council want a ceasefire , yet the USA have veto it twice , with the UK abstain on 8 December and again yesterday . I say to this Government that they should get off the fence and be on the right side of history . that say , while a ceasefire be clearly a necessary condition for peace , it be not sufficient . the recent ICJ ruling state that it be " plausible " that act that could amount to genocide be be commit in Gaza against the people of Palestine . the british Government must therefore end the sale of arm to Israel — weapon that be be use to kill innocent Palestinians . finally , in make these demand I be not speak for myself . over 10 , 000 constituent in Birmingham , Hall Green have recently write to I call for a ceasefire , for the recognition of palestinian statehood , and for the ending of the arm trade to Israel . never have I witness such passionate advocacy on any issue by the people of Birmingham , Hall Green , and I be proud to stand in the Chamber today to be their voice and their vote in this debate . order . the wind - up be expect at 5 . 50 pm , and the Division be expect from 6 . 10 pm . contribution a lot short than three minute will help — please look towards two minute . for 137 day , ten of thousand of innocent Palestinians have be kill . entire family have be wipe out by intense bombing that have spare no one . israeli force have open fire on unarmed civilian in hospital , in queue for aid lorry and in fishing boat . they have kill child , such as six - year - old Hind Rajab — her desperate call to the Palestine Red Crescent Society , trap in a car alongside the body of her dead family member , should haunt we all . the UN have express serious concern about the detention of woman and girl , with credible report of degrade treatment and sexual violence by israeli soldier . People have lose everything they own , from their home to their most cherished belonging , and we have see video of israeli soldier steal or destroy those people ' s possession , include the food they have have to leave behind . meanwhile , hundred of thousand of displace Palestinians face force starvation . in one heartbreake video , a girl beg her cat , " if we die , please don ' t eat we . " this horrific situation be not some unfortunate accident . it could not be clear that what Israel be do in Gaza be immoral . it be wrong . and the International Court of Justice have rule that it amount to a plausible risk of genocide , yet israeli leader continue to defy the Court ' s order . will my hon . friend give way ? I be afraid that I need to make progress . if there be one moral principle that all of we in this House should share , it be that genocide should never be allow to take place . the ICJ have say that , under article 1 of the genocide convention , state must " employ all mean reasonably available " to prevent genocide , within the limit permit by international law , so what be the mean that our Government have ? they surely include do everything they can to bring about an immediate ceasefire , increase humanitarian aid , and end the arm sale and military training that be enable Netanyahu ' s hard - right government to continue their atrocity , while continue to call on Hamas to release all hostage . for decade , the world have be far too indifferent to the plight of the Palestinians , who be subject to oppression and discrimination simply because they be palestinian . Israel can not continue to deny their right to self - determination . it must end its 67 - year - long illegal occupation of the west bank and its brutal siege of Gaza . the UK Government must stop their selective empathy and help create a path to safety , security and freedom for both Palestinians and Israelis . rise — order . I urge colleague to try to stick to two minute . I could get everybody in if they do that . I welcome the clear call for an immediate ceasefire in the SNP motion table today , for that be what be require . I have be consistent in my call for an immediate ceasefire since the horrific massacre by Hamas on 7 October , and the declaration of the israeli Defence Minister on 8 October that the Gaza strip would pay a heavy price . I remain steadfast in my belief that a ceasefire be require . as everybody today have comment , it be only a political solution that will lead to peace in the region . the ceasefire must be sustainable , and we also need humanitarian aid to go in . hostage and prisoner must be release , and we must stop the arm export licence to Israel . however , the key thing be a ceasefire at this point to stop the killing . in the very limited time I have , I want to focus on the gendere nature of the conflict and the horrific impact it be have on woman and child in Gaza . over 70 % of the 30 , 000 people kill be woman and child . every hour , two Gazan mother be kill by israeli attack , and every day almost 200 woman in Gaza be give birth without adequate care . all this be because 1 . 7 million Gazans have be displace from their home and be live in squalor . I have lot of testimony provide by ActionAid and other charity about the impact this be have disproportionately on woman and child . what be happen to the Palestinians be collective punishment , as the Secretary - General of the UN and countless agency have state , and as the main motion before we rightly say . the icj — other have say this , but it be extremely important — have say that there be a plausible risk of genocide by the state of Israel . we be witness a humanitarian catastrophe , and we stand on the precipice of mass civilian slaughter if the Israelis attack Rafah . to conclude , I welcome the statement by the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , in the House today that this be the moment to come together . the only way this can be do be by consistently call for and support those call for an immediate ceasefire . therefore , I hope that all member across the House will support both proposition . I thank the SNP for use its Opposition day to bring about a debate on Gaza . the House have not cover itself in glory today , with all the delay at the start of this debate , and I can not quite understand why we be now finish early . the issue before we be the reality of the horror of people ' s life . the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , who speak early , talk about the pain of those kill on 7 October , the pain of those in a church and the pain of the relative of those who have be kill in Gaza , as well as the continue destruction of the life of almost 30 , 000 people in Gaza since this conflict begin . there be the use of unbelievable level of ordnance in destroy Gaza , with the carpet bombing of the whole place . some 29 , 000 bomb have be drop on Gaza by the israeli force . by comparison , the US drop 4 , 000 bomb on Iraq during the five year of that particular conflict . what we be see be the total destruction of society , life and hope in Gaza . I keep meet palestinian people who tell I how many of their relative have be kill in Gaza . our good friend Husam Zomlot , the palestinian ambassador , have lose 100 member of his wide family in this conflict . I meet a man go through unbelievable trauma , Wael , in Bristol two week ago , who have lose 17 immediate member of his family . Israel ' s lack of support or recognition for international law go back a long way . it have be find want under the fourth Geneva convention in so many case in relation to the power of an occupy force . the International Court of Justice — and I attend the hearing in the Hague — listen very carefully to the south african application , and in effect demand an immediate ceasefire , which have not happen . when this happen and the whole thing kick off , Ant ó nio Guterres , UN Secretary - General , say that this do not " come from nowhere . " it come from decade of the encirclement of Gaza and the occupation of the west bank . it come from the settlement policy . it come from the inability of palestinian people to live their life in peace . a ceasefire now be essential , and it have to go on to end the occupation , end the settlement policy , and recognise the plight of those thousand of palestinian refugee live in Jordan , Syria , Libya and so many other place around the world . the United Nations Relief and Works Agency have be defunde . we be send arm , not aid . we should be send all the support we can . the good support we can give be to stop the arm trade with Israel , end the battle in Gaza at the moment , and bring about peace and hope for the palestinian people . I want a ceasefire . we need a ceasefire , and how I wish that the simple act of call for one be enough to deliver it , as some people seem to believe . in reality , it will take a bit more than that , and we must accept that if the hostage be not release , that be a major block to a ceasefire . we should throw our weight behind talk in Egypt and Qatar and at the UN , and with the people who be make practical negotiation possible to try to bring this thing to a conclusion . it be not enough to wish for it or to march down the street , block traffic , invade railway station , and chant " ceasefire now . " that might make someone feel momentarily good , but it do not change anything at all . we need a much more practical approach to what we be go to do , and that have be absent from this debate , which at time to I sound like a prosecution of Israel . as a Labour Friend of Israel , I be happy to criticise some of the action of the israeli authority at the present time . I have no problem with that . but I know what happen in Israel on 7 October , and I do not think that should be write out of history by people chant for something else . in the time I have available , I will say simply this : I want a ceasefire ; I want the hostage release , aid deliver , and support for genuine effort to build peace . I will work with those of good will from any political sphere who share those view , but we should be careful of sanctimony and lecture from Holy Willies on this subject , because the reality be that we do not get something by wish for it or by preach at other ; we get it by work for it . accord to Euro - Med Human Rights Monitor , Israeli have kill , seriously injure or maim well over 100 , 000 people in Gaza since 7 October , the vast majority of they civilian , and the vast majority of they woman and child . More than 1 , 000 child have lose limb , and many have have to undergo amputation without anaesthetic . whole family and generation have be wipe out , and just this week the United Nations Human Rights Office say it believe that israeli soldier have engage in arbitrary detention , extrajudicial killing and sexual violence , include the rape and execution of woman and girl , and intentionally and publicly humiliate and degrade other . Israel itself have post video of its humiliation of civilian man . Israel do not even pause for breath in its slaughter in Gaza when the International Court of Justice put it on trial for genocide and order it to protect palestinian life . yet our Government continue to enable and assist the israeli military . the UK Government must explain why they have issue at least 27 arm licence to Israel in the last 137 day — British - make bomb and weapon kill civilian in Gaza . the UN World Health Organisation and other have be warn for week that famine and disease in Gaza be start to kill more civilian than bomb and bullet . the health system in Gaza have be bomb into collapse . famine be now in Gaza , and 80 % of the world ' s hungry people be in that tiny enclave . Israel be use starvation as a weapon of war . Palestinians be force to eat grass just to survive . Palestinians in Gaza be force to grind animal feed into flour just to survive . cut off funding for UNRWA , the United Nations aid organisation for Palestine , be a death sentence . only a fraction of the bare minimum for survival be be allow through in aid . Israel be bomb Rafah , where it drive almost the whole population for their suppose safety . Israel say that it plan a full invasion , which would trigger a catastrophe that would dwarf the horror we have see so far . the UK Government be under an obligation under international law to do everything in their power to stop genocide , yet they have not take a meaningful step to do so , and they will not even call for an immediate ceasefire to end the devastation . we must call for an immediate ceasefire , and it be ludicrous that we be engage in collective punishment . collective punishment be a war crime . forceable transfer and slaughter be war crime . we therefore need the motion that the SNP have put forward today , which call for an end to these war crime and an immediate ceasefire . I support it . since this House first hold a vote call for the Government to press for a ceasefire , ten of thousand of Palestinians have be kill . More than a million have be displace , not just once , but multiple time over and over again . nearly half of Gaza ' s population be starve , as food and water be restrict . the brutal bombardment have kill almost 30 , 000 man , woman and child , while more lie beneath the rubble of home , school , church , mosque and hospital in a tragedy that should be unthinkable . in Gaza , where more than 11 , 000 of those kill be child , this unthinkable tragedy have become a reality . a 15 - year - old child grow up in Gaza today have never know peace , but this conflict have be the deadly they have ever see . almost every day for almost five month , Gaza ' s child have face a multitude of danger , whether that be from the israeli military ' s bomb or sniper bullet , the grave health risk of wound treat without anaesthetic or infection control , the acute malnourishment and disease rip through the population or the psychological torment of be expose to such death and destruction . these be not combatant , and they be certainly not acceptable collateral damage ; they be child . it be shameful that child be waste away , that most baby under the age of two be starve and that nearly all child under the age of five languish with disease . within week of the attack on Gaza , we see haunt image of child beg the international community to protect they , but in the month that follow , the international community make it clear that it be not listen . the question we must ask ourselves be : what be the point of have declaration , charter and institution if they will not even protect child ? what benefit do international court that the UK tout as the bedrock of a rule - base order offer if they will not halt the killing of child ? what purpose do this international order serve if it ignore palestinian child as be as deserve of protection as any other ? the answer be simply that it have fail . today , we can either continue that legacy of failure , or reject it and vote for an immediate ceasefire to end the bloodshed . Madam Deputy Speaker , " what I witness … in Gaza be not war — it be annihilation . " those be the word of an american doctor , Irfan Galaria , who recently return from Gaza have volunteer at one of its remain work hospital . on his return , he describe the carnage inflict by Israel ' s bombardment . he speak of the " sea of tent " around Rafah , where 1 . 5 million Palestinians have be displace . he speak about how every few minute his hospital would shake as airstrike rain down nearby . the doctor describe the medical equipment he have to use for amputation as be " a Gigli saw … essentially a segment of barbed wire . " he speak about one occasion where parent carry a group of child into the emergency room . their family have try to return to their home in Khan Yunis after israeli tank withdraw , but israeli sniper remain . the child , all aged five to eight , " have single sniper shot to the head " . not one of they survive . for the last 137 day , Gaza have be subject to indiscriminate assault . More than 29 , 000 Palestinians have be kill , include more than 10 , 000 child , with many more bury in the rubble . More than 70 % of Gaza ' s home have be destroy , and all 2 . 3 million inhabitant be now classify as face either crisis , emergency or catastrophic level of food insecurity . as I have say in the Chamber before , what be truly horrifying be that israeli politician and official have say that they would unleash this atrocity on Gaza . at the start of the assault , an israeli defence official say that Gaza would be reduce to a " city of tent " . remember the american doctor ' s description of Rafah . an israeli Government Minister say there be " no non - combatant " in Gaza . remember the number of child kill . another official say that the aim be to make Gaza a place where no human being could exist . remember the number of people starve in Gaza . what israeli official say would happen have happen . the Government , to their eternal shame , have give Israel the green light , refuse to call for an immediate ceasefire and continue to arm the israeli military . that could change today . vote for an immediate ceasefire — I mean immediate — would tell the word that Britain demand that the war , this brutal assault , must end now . in the face of the moral calamity we be witness , that be the bare minimum that the House must do . we must call for an immediate ceasefire , the release of hostage and all those unjustly imprison , and a last peace , respect the fundamental right of all Palestinians and Israelis . I say to my colleague and those across the House with a conscience : history will remember this . I urge and implore they to vote for an immediate ceasefire . I be heartbroken and horrify alongside my constituent about the terror attack and hostage taking , and the horrendous death , suffering and destruction in Gaza . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I have be on two trip to Israel and Palestine in the last six month . one , last September , just before the attack , be with the Council for arab - british Understanding and medical aid for Palestine . the other be last week , along with many other hon . member , with Yachad . we visit the Kibbutzim attack on 7 October , Jerusalem and the west bank . I meet Rachel Goldberg , the mother of Hersh , a 23 - year - old , similar to my 21 - year - old . he love travel and music festival . he wave his mum goodbye and go off to a music festival on 6 October . at 8 . 20 in the morning on 7 October , he send his mum two text message : " I love you " and " I ' m sorry " . she have not hear from he since . Rachel , Hersh ' s mother , be an extraordinary woman . she summarise the war this way : it be not a competition of pain and tear ; it be just a bunch of pain and tear . we should learn from this . we should learn about solidarity both for the jewish people and the palestinian people , and find word to say that here and across our country . in the short time I have , I want to highlight issue in the west bank . there can be no peace in Gaza without peace in the west bank . I go to a village destroy by illegal settler occupation . the term " settler " sound like a nice farming fringe activity , but that be not the case ; it be an illegal and violent occupation movement that undermine peace on the west bank and in Gaza . they must be stop now with more sanction and call out and dismantle the illegal outpost . what need to happen now ? we need an immediate ceasefire , with no attack on the 1 . 5 million people in Rafah , a surge in humanitarian aid , the release of the hostage , a freeze on the demolition of palestinian home in the west bank , and the dismantle of settlement outpost . the people of south Israel and Gaza must be able to return to their home and rebuild . there must be international recognition of the state of Palestine , and we need resolution of the contest holy site in Jerusalem . the Israel Defence Forces have say that it be plan 2024 to be a year of war . we be here today to say no . the list of baby kill in Gaza before their first birthday be beyond heartbreaking . this week , at least four be kill before they have even get to the stage where they have a name . at the same time , footage emerge this week from Khan Yunis of israeli hostage Shiri Bibas and her son , age four and nine month , still be hold by Hamas . when we debate this issue , we should keep in mind all those innocent catch up in the conflict . the debate have certainly not rise to the occasion at all time . the fighting must stop . we must have a ceasefire , I think there be now cross - party agreement . I have hear many people in this House and outside say that the situation be not complex but simple : " vote for a ceasefire . it ' s symbolic ; it be send a message . it doesn ' t matter if you agree with every word of a motion , just vote for it so you vote for something . " they have say , " think of the headline on BBC News , not the detail . " how debase our politic have become , that that be what pass for foreign policy . word matter . Detail be important . not mention something in a motion matter . that be why tonight I will vote for the Labour amendment . it matter that we say what be important . we all know that the only way to get to the peaceful resolution that we need be through the hard yard of diplomacy , and for both side — Israel and Hamas — to agree to stop . will the hon . member give way ? I do not have time . this conflict be rage far beyond this place , and the tone and the tenor of the debate matter . in a week fill with politic , it be important that we have the chance to vote tonight for a ceasefire and , more importantly , that we spend time after this debate try to build a consensus — which be start to emerge on the conservative side — on what this look like go forward . we need a ceasefire , but we need to build a consensus for it . divide this House will not achieve that and it will not save life in Gaza . on Sunday I return from four day in Israel and Palestine as part of a cross - party delegation with Yachad . we meet hostage family , displace Palestinians , NGOs work in Gaza , peace activist on both side of the conflict , and israeli and palestinian official spokespeople . it be a distressing , move and humble experience . the conflict in Israel and Gaza have bring unimaginable horror on Israelis and Palestinians . it have intensify the violent displacement of Palestinians by Israelis in the west bank . in the very short time that I have , at the end of this debate , I want to bring to this House the word of an extraordinary young man , Yotam Kipnis . we meet Yotam in the Be ' eri kibbutz , which he return to with we for the first time since 7 October , to visit the home from which his parent be abduct and subsequently murder by Hamas . as we stand outside the rubble of Yotam ' s home , he say " Vengeance be a valid feeling . it be not a valid policy . " in Israel and Palestine , they talk about the day after this conflict : to get to the day after , we must first have a ceasefire . we must have a ceasefire now , before more atrocity be commit in Rafah . we need a ceasefire so that humanitarian aid can get into Gaza . we need a ceasefire for people like Yotam , who be work for peace . if they can set aside their difference and focus on what really matter — the future that Israelis and Palestinians can build of peace and security — we can put aside our difference in this House tonight and vote for a ceasefire . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the speaker who have come and raise their voice on behalf of the people of Gaza today . we be here today in condemnation of the atrocity commit against innocent people in Israel by Hamas on 7 October . we be here today in condemnation of the atrocity commit by Israel against innocent people in Gaza every day since then . we be here today in condemnation of the taking of hostage , indiscriminate violence , maiming , use of sniper , rape and sexual assault , starvation , and attack in place of worship , school and hospital . it must stop now . a pause be not enough . fill the belly of starve wean one day just to bomb they the next be not acceptable . pregnant woman — those who have not miscarry or suffer stillbirth due to the unimaginable strain of live in a war zone — can not time their labour for whenever that pause might fall . ActionAid have report that Al - Awda , the only function maternity hospital in northern Gaza , be hit three time in the past week . it be intolerable . member on both side of the House have outline the horror in Gaza . we have hear of wee Hind Rajab , aged only six ; of the poet Refaat Alareer ; and of Dima Alhaj , who live in Glasgow and be kill alongside her six - month - old baby , her husband and two brother . Dima be a health worker for the World Health Organisation . Dr Abdullatif , a colleague of my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Dr Whitford ) , lose 50 member of his family , include child and grandchild , when their home be bomb . the journalist Wael al - Dahdouh lose his wife , his daughter , two son and other family member . I highlight those story because when we get beyond the more than 100 journalist , the 150 United Nations worker , the estimate 400 health worker — the 30 , 000 of our fellow human being who have be kill — their story become a cacophony of tragedy . it can not be anything other than collective punishment . as the International Court of Justice have find , there be a plausible risk that genocide be be perpetrate by Israel . More death will follow without a ceasefire and without the full flow of humanitarian aid , which Israel have be hold up , be allow in . the Palestinian Red Crescent have see its lifesaving work disrupt by israeli force . there be a real fear for the people now shelter in Rafah — 1 . 4 million of they — if a further attack land on they . there be many way to die in Gaza , from disease or starvation as well as from bombardment . and what of those who survive — the 1 . 9 million displace , homeless and destitute , leave among the rubble of their life ; those who be orphan ; and the 70 , 000 injure and suffer endure trauma ? we must not forget those people either . I have listen carefully to activist from the Gaza Families Reunited campaign who want to allow those with family in the UK to be reunite with they , and to bring family to sanctuary here . the UK have grant very few visa to Palestinians over the year — only 1 , 300 since 2014 . my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) have talk previously about Dr Lubna Hadoura . in Glasgow , there be my constituent Sama . there be Reem , to whom I listen on a call yesterday . there be Grace Franklin and Alison Phipps , who have palestinian friend . none of they have find a safe and legal route , because none exist . People be fundraise to bribe their way out of Gaza for lack of a safe and legal route , all the time worry and wait for news of whether their relative be dead or alive . there have be a scheme for Ukraine . why be there , as yet , no scheme for Gaza ? some of the question that have be ask of we today have be about how we can know what will happen if there be a ceasefire . do my hon . friend agree that the real problem be that we know exactly what will happen if there be no ceasefire , and that that alone should be enough to ensure that we vote for one tonight ? that point be crucial . we know what the consequence will be if there be no ceasefire and we continue as we be now : thousand more people will die . we do not need to question that , because we know that it will happen , and it will be on our conscience if we choose not to act . I have never receive more email about an issue , and I know that I have that in common with many other member in all part of the House . so far , more than 3 , 000 people have contact I about this issue . the ongoing demonstration outside the House and in town , village and city across these isle show the strength of feeling about the conflict in Gaza , which bring together people from all background — people who have never protest before , but who see an injustice happen and want we , as parliamentarian , to do something about it . we all know that peace can be possible , but that it start with tentative step . ceasefire be not easy . the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) and for Belfast South ( Claire Hanna ) describe their experience , and other bring dispatch from their conversation and visit to the region . we be under no illusion about the challenge , but we must try . in this place we have a duty . we have an obligation , a very special obligation , when it come to the middle east . during every moment for which we delay and equivocate , more people die . it could not be more crucial than that . this be not a debate about semantic or procedure ; it be about principle . it be about the people of Gaza . it be about save life . the hostage must be release . aid must be allow in . negotiation must begin . it be on all our conscience here in this place if we do not stand with our international partner , with country around the world , with international aid organisation and with the United Nations . we must have a ceasefire , and we must have it now . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know that Mr Speaker be a servant of this House and that he take his responsibility to we extremely seriously . it be that duty towards we and our right as member in this place that command our respect of he . we all have obligation in this place to ensure that all view can be express , and that individual member and party of all colour and size can have their say . as a member on the Government Benches , sometimes that be difficult during Opposition day debate , as motion be always deliberately confect to try to engineer the great possible backlash against member . but we on the Government Benches have never ask that the procedure of this House be upturned to militate against such pressure , even when we have face extreme abuse . Mr Speaker have state in the decision that he have take today , and that he be entitle to take , that he wish for all proposition on the Order Paper to be put to the House . however , that decision have raise temperature in this House on an issue where feeling be already run high , and that have put right hon . and hon . member in a more difficult position . it also appear , from the advice of his Clerk , that the decision be take against the long - stand and establish process and procedure of this House , and that the consequence may be that the Government be not able to respond to Opposition day motion . as such , the Government do not have confidence that they will be able to vote on their own amendment . for that reason , the Government will play no further part in the decision this House take on today ' s proceeding . I would like to stress that the Government ' s position on Israel and Gaza remain unchanged , as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister outline today . we want to see the fighting in Gaza end as soon as possible , and we never again want to see Hamas carry out the appalling terrorist attack that Israel be subject to . we know that just call for an immediate ceasefire now , which collapse back into fighting within day or week , be not in anyone ' s interest . we will be reiterate the Government ' s position via a write ministerial statement . I fear that this most grave matter that we be discuss this afternoon have become a political row within the Labour party , and that regrettably — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the point of order . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I fear that , regrettably , Mr Speaker have insert himself into that row with today ' s decision and undermine the confidence of this House in its ability to rely on its long - establish Standing Orders to govern its debate — long - establish convention that should not be impair by the current view of a weak Leader of the Opposition and a divided party . I ask that Mr Speaker take the opportunity to reassure all right hon . and hon . member that their Speaker — our Speaker — will not seek to undermine those right in order to protect the interest of particular member , and that future Opposition day debate will not be hijack in this way . I say that for the benefit of all member . [ interruption . ] order . I thank the right hon . Lady for alert I to her point of order . I will take further point of order , but I think it will be helpful if I explain that if the government do not move their amendment , the Questions will be first on the current amendment , and secondly on the motion itself , either as amend or in its original form . I hope that be helpful . [ interruption . ] it would be helpful if I could be hear , thank you . [ interruption . ] order . I will first take a point of order from the shadow Leader of the House . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . obviously , I do not have advance notice of the point of order from the Leader of the House , so I be respond in term . of course , we support what Mr Speaker be intend to do today — [ interruption . ] hang on a minute . [ interruption . ] hang on a minute . we support — [ interruption . ] order . we be go to listen to the point of order . the Leader of the House be hear . the shadow Leader of the House will be hear , and then I will come to the SNP leader . I expect everybody to be hear with respect . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . last time I look , those on the Government Benches have a majority in this House . if they do not like the amendment before they , they could vote this evening to defeat they . [ interruption . ] but they have now decide , I understand , not to vote on they , so perhaps we have to ask whether they do still command a majority in this House and whether they be try to hide behind some other reason . [ interruption . ] keep shout , keep shout . you ' re just embarrass yourself , quite honestly . you ' ve give up govern . absolutely give up govern . Mr Speaker be try , I think , Madam Deputy Speaker — [ interruption . ] order . it be so bad just to be shout the shadow Leader of the House down . right hon . and hon . member should think about what they be do in behave like that . the shadow Leader of the House will be hear , and I be sure she be come to the point of order that she want I to rule on . there be a large number of Opposition Members who want to express their view this evening by be able to vote for an amendment in their name . [ interruption . ] government member be still shout I down , Madam Deputy Speaker . they have an amendment in their name , which they clearly do not have the number to get through the House . it be astonishing that the conservative party suddenly find itself stand in defence of the Scottish National party — something I do not think I would see . if they have the number to command a majority in this House , they should vote for their amendment . Mr Speaker have every right to let we have a say on our amendment this evening and to have the maximum number of option . the Leader of the House might want to consult the former Leader of the House , the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , who say that Mr Speaker have in fact take the right decision in make sure that the maximum number of option be available to the House this evening . let I just confirm again that if the government do not move their amendment , the other amendment and the main question will be take . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I begin by re - emphasise that we be all here tonight to vote on a motion on the civilian death in Gaza and the appalling situation that be be face by national in Israel , too ? we all must remember that . first , if I have listen correctly to what have just be say , on an SNP Opposition day , should the Labour party ' s amendment be carry , the SNP ' s vote will not be hold . secondly , if I have correctly read the Clerk of the House ' s letter to all Members , which be send to the Speaker , this be a consequence that the Speaker be warn of . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you please advise I : where on earth be the Speaker of the House of Commons , and how do we bring he to the House to explain to the Scottish National party why our view and our vote in this House be irrelevant to he ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . [ interruption . ] order . for as long as it take , I will answer the point of order and then I will take other point of order , but I suggest that member allow I to speak first . far to the hon . Gentleman ' s point of order , I have explain that , as I understand it , there be go to be three vote tonight . the Government have withdraw their amendment . the consequence be , as the hon . Gentleman say , that if the Labour party amendment be pass , it will be add to the SNP motion . he be right to say — [ interruption . ] no , let I finish . he be right to say that if there be a Division , there will be just one vote , but if it go through , we move on to the next business . rise — let I first take the point of order from the Chair of the Procedure Committee . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance . my understanding from the advice I have see be that Standing Order 31 , whereby the motion be put first , do not apply because there be two amendment . if there be now only one amendment , surely we should revert to Standing Order 31 . I thank the Chair of the Procedure Committee for her point of order , but if the Government amendment be not move , we revert to the amendment from the Labour party and that amendment have be move . if it be pass , the SNP motion be amend and then the question be put on the SNP amendment . rise — I will come back to Stephen Flynn , and then I will come to Mr Wragg . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . far to my early remark , and on the back of the remark that have just be make , I be afraid that you do not provide I with clarity in relation to , first , where the Speaker of the House of Commons be and , secondly , what mechanism be available to member to bring he to this House to explain why the SNP Opposition day have turn into a Labour Opposition day . thirdly , and most importantly , I must insist to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the SNP motion be vote on first , as the Chair of the Procedure Committee have just outline . rise — first I be go to take the other member of the Procedure Committee , then I will come back to the point raise by the hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on such a serious debate and topic and on a personal note from I , have give Mr Speaker a great deal of support in his election to the House on the basis that we be go to have a fresh start and that the convention that govern our proceeding would not be meddle with to seek one particular political view at any one time , I be hugely disappoint by what have transpire . we as a House be not show ourselves to the country as anywhere near our good or what we be capable of . I wonder if you can advise I on the nature of the early - day motion table in my name and those of a number of my colleague , which will appear live at the close of proceeding today , and on whether those in receipt of Government payroll be by convention eligible to sign such an early - day motion ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . I imagine the SNP Chief Whip want to add to what have already be say on this . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , I have to say I be slightly confused . I do not want to break any confidence , but I be assure that I would have a vote on the SNP motion today . as I understand the advice from the Clerks , if the Labour amendment be to be put first and pass , that would amend the text of our motion . give that that amendment would remove all of the text of our motion , we would not have a vote on the text of our motion , on our Opposition day . how can that possibly be allow to happen ? let I first address the point from the hon . member for Aberdeen South , the leader of the SNP . the Speaker set out very clearly this morning the reason for his decision to give the wide possible scope for different view to be hear and vote on . the hon . member for Midlothian ( Owen Thompson ) , the SNP Chief Whip , know that we would have be able to vote on all three proposition . however , because the Government motion have be withdraw , that be not possible — [ interruption . ] that be the correct position . we finish the wind - up at 6 . 15 , and there would have be the opportunity for three vote . because the Government be no long participate , I will put the question on the Labour amendment — rise — I be respond to the hon . member for Aberdeen South — [ interruption . ] I be respond to he , so he need to sit down . I will put the Labour amendment — [ interruption . ] no , I be answer his point of order . sit down . he ask I whether that would amend the SNP motion . yes , it would . if it be pass but SNP Members do not agree with the wording , they can vote against it . let we be clear — [ interruption . ] that be the situation . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it seem that Mr Speaker be put under intolerable pressure . Nicholas Watt , the political editor of BBC " Newsnight " , tweet : " senior Labour figure tell I @ CommonsSpeaker be leave in no doubt that Labour would bring he down after the general election unless he call Labour ' s Gaza amendment . " can the — [ interruption . ] a labour figure tell he that , so do not say it be rubbish . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you assure the House that everything will be do to identify who put that intolerable pressure on Mr Speaker ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . that tweet be wrong . the statement be incorrect , and I know he would want that reassurance . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be afraid that I will have to try for a third time . can you please advise I on where Mr Speaker be ? what mechanism be available to bring he to the House ? as we wait for the deliberation on that question , I move that you use the power that I trust you have to suspend this House until Mr Speaker be bring here . [ interruption . ] you can do that . the hon . Gentleman raise a point of order , which he then interrupt . I will not be suspend the House . we need to put these question . Mr Speaker will be in his place tomorrow . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . where be Mr Speaker ? I be afraid that the hon . Gentleman will have to make do with I , which I know be a great disappointment . Mr Speaker will be here in his place tomorrow . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . can you confirm that , many year ago , opposition day debate be take seriously by government , and if a Government lose a vote , as happen on the gurkha motion when Labour be in government , they would put the motion into effect ? successive Conservative Administrations have largely ignore Opposition day debate . they have refuse to take part in many vote , and they have widely ignore the result of vote in which they do not take part . Madam Deputy Speaker , do you agree that it be a bit rich for that lot opposite to give lecture about the importance of Opposition day debate when they routinely ignore they ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . first , unless there be very exceptional circumstance , opposition day vote be not bind . she know parliamentary procedure , so I think she know that . secondly , the hon . Lady be correct to say that the previous but one Leader of the House say that if an Opposition day motion be pass , even if the Government have not participate , she would come back with a response within 20 day . that be my recollection . I do not believe that be currently follow , but the hon . Lady be right that it be what use to happen . it be absolutely up to the Government , as it be for any Member of the House , as to whether they do or do not vote . it be their decision . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the House and its procedure have descend into absolute chaos , simply because of a decision take by the Speaker early today . be it too much to ask that the Speaker be ask to come to this House to explain exactly why he take those decision , the consequence of those decision and how he intend to get this House out of the mess it find itself in ? for what reason would you not suspend the House in order for the Speaker to come here to sort this mess out ? I have say twice already that Mr Speaker set out this morning in detail why he have make his decision , and he will be in his place tomorrow . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] no , you will listen to the point of order and listen politely . it look so bad , on such an important issue — [ interruption . ] there be no point in shout I down now . it look so bad to our constituent if they see member who be raise perfectly reasonable point of order just be shout down . it be not good . I call Sir Chris Bryant . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be perfectly legitimate view , on different side , as to the propriety of today ' s proceeding . however , I just say gently to some conservative Members who have say that we can not possibly have an Opposition day motion be amend by another Opposition party that some of the member who be shout the loud — [ interruption . ] I just remind some of those who have be shout the loud on the conservative Benches that they personally vote on 13 May 1999 for a Conservative Opposition motion amend a liberal Democrat motion on an Opposition day . far more importantly , surely , be the fact that the behaviour of many hon . member in the Chamber today will have make a lot of people in this country very nervous about the way we conduct our business when deal with some of the most important matter of state . most significantly , it have be the tradition of british parliamentary democracy that if a government lose control of their foreign policy , they have lose the confidence of the House , by definition , and consequently there be an immediate general election . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . rise — I will take the point of order from Sir Charles Walker , but I do want to move on and put the question shortly . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not know how we get to this point today , but it do not reflect well on Parliament . his Majesty ' s opposition have clearly behave — and I do not mean this in any way as an offence — [ interruption . ] please , I do not . they have behave — [ interruption . ] People be frightened . People have weaponise this debate in this Chamber . whip be frightened for their flock , because member of Parliament now feel that they have to vote in a certain way in order to safeguard their safety and that of their family . that be a far big issue than the debate we be have tonight , because if people be change their vote or their behaviour in this place because they be frightened of what may happen to they or their family out there , we have a real problem . so this point score off each other be not go to resolve many issue . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . he speak with his usual passion . he be absolutely right to say that what we now need to do be to move on . I want to put the question and then we will move on to a further debate . rise — I do hope that Mr O ' Brien be follow in that spirit . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I believe that today the SNP have be treat unfairly . but it be not just the SNP that have be treat unfairly . those of we who would like to vote for the SNP motion must now , if we want to do so , vote against the Labour party ' s amend motion — a motion that the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) have just say would , if we vote for it , lead to an immediate general election , so we be be place in an unfair position if we wish to support the SNP motion . we have now see the exit of SNP Members and many conservative Members from the Chamber . we be clearly in an intolerable situation . it be a sad situation , Madam Deputy Speaker . I believe that the current Speaker be a man of honour who have do a great deal over recent year to restore the reputation of the Chair after a dark period for this House . however , even if he believe that the constitutional innovation that he have introduce today be a good one , this be not the time to change the rule . we have hear from the Chair of the Procedure Committee that there be a serious question about the order here and the constitutional propriety of the order in which these question be be take — a question be put by the SNP too . may I suggest , Madam Deputy Speaker , that if you be not prepared to suspend the House , we at least defer the Divisions that be suppose to be happen this evening until we can resolve these issue ? finally , because in this House it be courteous and traditional that the person about whom one be talk be always in the Chamber when they be discuss , we should defer those division so that we can hear from Mr Speaker himself before we come to vote on these issue , because otherwise a great injustice be be do to the SNP and to other Members of the House . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . I just want to be clear again that there be the ability to have a vote on all three motion that be before the House . the situation have change , but that do not mean that I would then withdraw the question and not put they , because they be still before the House , and I intend to proceed with they in the way that I have suggest . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be go to suggest that the Speaker display immense flexibility this morning , and that that flexibility be exert again to enable we to have a separate vote . however , now that the SNP Members have go , there be no other way that I can do this to ensure that my constituent know that I will be vote for the Labour amendment , but I would also have vote for the SNP motion . I want that on the record . I be go to take a point of order from the Chair of the Procedure Committee . I gently suggest that right hon . and hon . member restrain themselves . I think the Chair of the Procedure Committee may have something to share with we about what she be look at , at Mr Speaker ' s request , I believe . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) be correct that in the precedent there be a conservative amendment to a Liberal Democrat Opposition day motion , but there be no Government amendment , and that be the difference . as there be no long a Government amendment , I be confused about why we be not return to the order of precedence set down in Standing Order No . 31 . because of Standing Order No . 31 , I be bind to take the Labour party amendment first and then move on to the SNP motion . that be all the advice that I have receive , and I be sure when the hon . Lady — I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . the House proceed to a Division . will the Serjeant at arm investigate the delay in the Lobbies ? Mhairi Black Bob Blackman Robert Goodwill James Grundy Robert Jenrick Greg Knight Jonathan Lord Jesse Norman Matthew Offord Charles Walker William Wragg Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Harriett Baldwin Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Robert Buckland Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Christopher Chope Feryal Clark Therese Coffey Yvette Cooper Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Geraint Davies Philip Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Steve Double Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Luke Evans Simon fall Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Philip Hollobone Rachel Hopkins Dan Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle David Lammy John Lamont Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Marco Longhi Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Craig Mackinlay Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Maria Miller Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Tom Pursglove Yasmin Qureshi John Redwood Steve Reed Christina Rees Jacob Rees - Mogg Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Greg Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Justin Tomlinson Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mark Tami Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 20 , Noes 212 . question accordingly negative . amendment ( a ) agree to . Main Question , as amend , put and agree to . resolve , that this House believe that an israeli ground offensive in Rafah risk catastrophic humanitarian consequence and therefore must not take place ; note the intolerable loss of palestinian life , the majority be woman and child ; condemn the terrorism of Hamas who continue to hold hostage ; support Australia , Canada and New Zealand ' s call for Hamas to release and return all hostage and for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire , which mean an immediate stop to the fighting and a ceasefire that last and be observe by all side , note that Israel can not be expect to cease fight if Hamas continue with violence and that Israelis have the right to the assurance that the horror of 7 October 2023 can not happen again ; therefore support diplomatic mediation effort to achieve a last ceasefire ; demand that rapid and unimpeded humanitarian relief be provide in Gaza ; far demand an end to settlement expansion and violence ; urge Israel to comply with the International Court of Justice ' s provisional measure ; call for the UN Security Council to meet urgently ; and urge all international partner to work together to establish a diplomatic process to deliver the peace of a two - state solution , with a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable palestinian state , include work with international partner to recognise a palestinian state as a contribution to rather than outcome of that process , because statehood be the inalienable right of the palestinian people and not in the gift of any neighbour . Speaker ' s statement I wish to respond to the point of order raise by the Leader of the House . today ' s debate be exceptional in the intensity with which all party wish to secure a vote on their own proposition . it take decision that be intend to allow the House the wide range of proposition on which to express a view . I want to do the good , and it be my wish to do the good , by every Member of this House . I take very seriously — [ interruption . ] no , the danger — that be why I want everybody to be able to express their view . I be very , very concerned about the security of all member . [ interruption . ] I be very concerned , I be still concerned , and that be why the meeting I have have today be about the security of Members , their family and the people involve . I have to say that I regret how it have end up . it be not my intention . I want to ensure that all could express their view and all side of the House could vote . as it be , in particular , the SNP be ultimately unable to vote on its proposition . I regret with sadness that it have end up in this position . it be never my intention for it to end up like this . I be absolutely convinced that the decision be make with the right intention . I recognise the strength of feeling of member on this issue . it be clear that today have not show the House at its good . I will reflect on my part in that , and of course I recommit myself to ensure that all member of this House be treat fairly . I do not want it to have end like this . I want to say to the House that I will meet with all the key player of each party . I think it be right that I meet with each one . [ interruption . ] to correct that , I have not meet with Sue Gray — I do not bump into she today ; I be offend by that comment , and I think the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) would like to withdraw it . that be the danger ; the House have end up with speculation over what be not factual . I be honest to this House , I be true to this House , and I believe in all member of this House . I have try to do what I think be the right thing for all side of this House . it be regrettable , and I apologise for a decision that do not end up in the place that I wish . I say now that I will meet all the — [ interruption . ] just be quiet , please . I will meet with the leader and the Chief Whips . let we have a discussion on what be the good way forward . I say again that I think I be do the right thing and the good thing , and I regret , and I apologise for , how it have end up . I do take responsibility for my action , and that be why I want to meet the key player who have be involve . on a point of order , Mr Speaker , I thank you for come to the House , for say you will reflect on what have happen today , and for offer your apology and to meet with member of this House . you be our Speaker and we wish you to defend the right of all member of this House . I thank you for recommit yourself to those responsibility today and for come to the Floor of the House . to respond , that be what I try to do in the first place . it end up in the wrong place , and I do apologise to all and in particular to the SNP . that it be not where I want to be , but it be where I be . I will leave it at that for the moment , but I want to meet as soon as possible . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . may I begin by echo your sentiment in relation to the debate that be have in this Chamber on the most important of matter with regard to the safety of civilian in Gaza and , indeed , in Israel ? there have be a difference of view in the House today , but I think that difference of view have be express in a way that we can all agree have be in a positive fashion and the well fitting way of any function democracy . Mr Speaker , while I acknowledge your apology , the reality be that you be warn by the Clerks of the House that your decision could lead to the SNP not have a vote on our very own opposition day . as a result , we have see the SNP Opposition day turn into a Labour party Opposition day . I be afraid that that be treat I and my colleague in the Scottish National party with complete and utter contempt , and I will take significant convincing that your position be not now intolerable . to respond to that , quite rightly , I understand the feeling . as I say , I would like to have that conversation in private . I would like to meet with you as soon as possible . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the amendment in the name of the Leader of the opposition be this evening pass unanimously , and therefore — [ interruption . ] yes , it be . [ interruption . ] and therefore — [ interruption . ] order . I do not think that now be the time . what I want to do be move on and meet with the important player . I be now go to hand over to the Deputy and leave it at that . rise — I will take one more point of order and then I really think we need to move on . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be two point in what Mr Speaker just say on which I seek your clarification . first , he imply that the proceeding of the House be manipulate by outside intimidation , with regard give to thing say outside on social medium and react to within the House . quite an important Rubicon have be cross , and it may have be cross without the consent of member . I would like to know where the process of the House be likely to go , give the outside influence that may be bring to bear . I would be grateful for some clarification on that . secondly , as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , I have the great respect for you , but , bluntly , you seem to have ram through two decision that be quite important to a lot of member in which no individual vote will have be record . a number of we have think quite carefully about how we be go to vote in those Divisions . essentially , we be — forgive I — take by surprise by those two decision be ram through . I wonder if it be possible to either void they or run they again . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . the fact be , I put the question and nobody call against it — [ interruption . ] no . not true . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be quite clear from the level of noise when the question be put that the view of the Deputy Speaker be be challenge . I think it be absolutely extraordinary that that noise level be deem to be " aye " . it be inconceivable that anybody hear it would have think it be " Aye " . it be quite clear from all our Standing Orders and all our tradition that when the Speaker or Deputy ' s decision be challenge , it should go to a Division . I be extremely sorry . I take it on the voice . I be quite clear where we be . [ interruption . ] the whole thing would have be considerably clear if the Government have not withdraw at that position . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder if the House have consider how this look to people outside . it look like chicanery . I rise to ask a question on behalf of the small party . what precedent have be set today in the way this opposition day have be handle ? how can we ever have faith in the future that our voice and our vote will actually be hear , or will it always be about the two big party here ? I think that the hon . Lady hear what Mr Speaker say — that he intend to talk with people . I also understand that the — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . excuse I , I be answer this point of order . the right hon . Gentleman must resume his seat . I also know that the Chair of the Procedure Committee will look at some of the issue that have be raise , at Mr Speaker ' s request . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance on how I can make my view more known to my constituent . I be one of the first Members of Parliament to call for the release of hostage , combine with a permanent ceasefire . I lose my Government job as a result . because people misrepresent my position , someone suggest on social medium that they would show my wife a real man . someone else suggest that they would attack I and my family . already today , labour councillor in my patch be tweet that I have not support a ceasefire . I want to vote with the Scottish National party motion on a ceasefire . can you advise I how I can make my constituent clear of my view , give that I be not able to vote ? I think the hon . Gentleman have put his view on the record by what he just say . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . will Mr Speaker tell the House how many Labour Opposition day debate have take place since 7 October in which no motion on a ceasefire be table ? why do Mr Speaker think , suddenly today on an SNP Opposition day , that it be really important that a Labour amendment be select , even though Labour Members have their own chance — several time — to bring forward a debate and a motion on a ceasefire in Gaza ? Mr Speaker have say that he will meet the leader and the whip of the party . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for hear all our point of order . I can not be alone in this place today in be utterly embarrassed at how member have conduct themselves — [ interruption . ] particularly those on the Government Benches — [ interruption . ] I continue to be shout down , which be a perfect example . and this , on an issue as serious as the one we have discuss today . I be ask for clarification , because people in this Chamber clearly be not aware of the rule and what be go on . one former Leader of the House make a complaint , when he be not even in the Chamber to hear what happen . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you please give we some clarity : have the Conservative Government not withdraw from the process today , would we have have three vote ? I be quite clear that there be the opportunity for three vote . that ' s not true . the hon . Gentleman may not know of all the discussion . I be very clear that there be the opportunity for three vote . I will take one more point of order . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would be grateful if you could provide I with some clarity on two point of procedure , because you be a much more experienced Member of Parliament than I . first , my understanding be that Mr Speaker make his decision early today on the basis that there would be three vote rather than two . once the Government withdraw their amendment and there be two vote rather than three , be the decision to put the Labour amendment before the SNP motion make by you , Madam Deputy Speaker , or Mr Speaker ? secondly , it be routinely the case that if a division — in this case on whether to sit in private — be complete after 7 o ' clock , as this one do , the motion would fall . can you explain why it do not ? first , it be Standing Order No . 31 that rule on the order in which the vote be to be take . I say that very clearly in respond to the Leader of the House , who also know what the order of the vote would be . also , with reference to it come after 7 , once an amendment be before the House , it have to be decide on . I assure the hon . Lady that , as I know she would expect I to , I do seek proper and thorough advice on both point . I hope that give she some reassurance , and I hope she accept that that be the case and that be the advice , because I certainly would not do anything that go against the order that I have say . rise — I really be go to move on now , I be afraid . [ interruption . ] okay , I will take one more point of order , from Marion Fellows . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . back in October , as soon as I could after the heinous action of Hamas , I call for a ceasefire , and I have hold firm to my belief since . my constituent have write to I in huge number tell I to vote for a ceasefire . I carry five proxy vote , and today I have not be allow either to vote on my own behalf or to use those five proxy vote that I hold . let I ask the same question that be ask by the hon . member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) : how do I ensure that the way I would have vote , which be for a ceasefire , be record in the House ? I think the hon . Lady have make very clear what she would have do , and I be sure that she and all colleague here will find way in which to express that view . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Banks and Banking that the draft Bank of England Levy ( Amount of Levy Payable ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Pensions that the draft Nuclear Decommissioning Authority ( Pension Scheme Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 19 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Petition - Ceasefire in Palestine I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk on the ceasefire in Palestine . I have never have as much correspondence on a single issue as I have on this matter ; I say that before , when I present a petition call for a cease in the arm trade to Israel , but it be doubly the case now . I hope my constituent have be watch today . if they have , they will have learn a number of thing . first , they will have learn , as we see from the Clerk of the House ' s letter , that Britannia waive the rule . secondly , they will have learn from the shenanigan we have see from the british party that this be no place for our country to be govern from , and the soon Scotland get out , the well . it seem to I — I hope my constituent will agree with I — that the difference between the position across this House be the argument over whether there be a collective punishment of the palestinian people , and by God , there have be . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to join with other in the international community in urgently press all party to agree to an immediate ceasefire , so that the processing of rebuild and find a last peace with a two - state solution can commence . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk . declare that the attack by Hamas on Israel on 7th October 2023 be act of terror , and unequivocally condemn the taking of hostage and the loss of innocent life in those attack ; condemn the disproportionate response of the Israel Defence Forces , include act which the International Court of Justice have say be plausibly genocide ; mourn the grow death toll of woman , man and child ; far that the petitioner declare for the urgent release of all hostage and an end to the siege of Gaza to allow vital supply of food , fuel , medicine and water to reach the civilian population ; and note the call by the United Nations for an immediate ceasefire on all side of the conflict and the global consensus in support of a two - state solution . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to join with other in the international community in urgently press all party to agree to an immediate ceasefire , so that the processing of rebuild and find a last peace with a two - state solution can commence . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002917 ] Water pollution : East Durham Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) it be quite interesting that the subject of my Adjournment debate be dirty water ; it might be appropriate . I thank Mr Speaker for the opportunity to have this debate . I want to start by correct the parliamentary record . in a previous Opposition day debate on water quality , on Tuesday 5 December , I say : " athlete fall ill from swim in water contaminate with E . coli " and " we know the source of the problem . " — [ Official Report , 5 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 288 . ] subsequently , in a letter date 11 January 2024 , Heidi Mottram CBE , the chief executive of Northumbrian Water , say my statement be factually incorrect . I be advise by Heidi Mottram CBE : " the UK Health Security Agency ( UKHSA ) investigate the cause of illness in participant of the World Triathlon Championships Series in Sunderland , report in August 2023 with their preliminary finding . they find that 19 of the 31 of those affect have evidence of norovirus infection , while the remain sample either test negative or be find to be positive for other infection , include sapovirus , astrovirus , and rotavirus . no evidence of E . coli O157 / STEC be find , which can cause severe gastrointestinal illness . four sample of other e . coli be find , but it be not possible to link its presence with participation in the triathlon , and these strain can be carry naturally in the gut . the UKHSA report , conclude that ' the predominance of Norovirus make it the most likely explanation of illness in participant . ' " I be happy to share those comment from the Northumbrian Water chief executive in the interest of fairness . however , the Environment Agency ' s sampling at Roker beach on Wednesday 26 July — three day prior to the event — show 3 , 900 e . coli colony per 100 ml , which be almost 40 time high than a typical reading . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this debate forward . he be right about the water pollution in east Durham ; he be also right to underline the medical circumstance . I , too , represent a constituency with an enormous coastline that be highly reliant on the fishing and tourism sector . water pollution be a vital issue because it have an impact on our environment , as well as a direct impact on livelihood . do he agree that it be imperative to have Government support to deal with small pocket of pollution before they turn into large - scale environmental crisis and medical problem , like those he refer to ? to make that happen , it take funding and a Government initiative . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . my personal belief be that the privatised water company have more than sufficient resource to address the issue if they prioritise infrastructure repair work and do the job that we , as customer , pay they to do . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will be more than familiar with this , but in previous debate we hear about correlation and causation : one be a kind of coincidence , and the other be a direct link between one event and another . the sample I refer to , which be 39 time above the average level , be not in the body of the water that be use for the swim . that be absolutely correct . I be therefore sure that it be only a coincidence that high level of E . coli be detect in a body of water near the swim event . there be no such thing as tidal movement , be there ? I do not know if they have they in Northern Ireland . there be no such thing as prevail wind , which would move a large body of E . coli into the swim area . I refer to the comment of the australian triathlete Jake Birtwhistle . they be slightly unparliamentary , but he say : " have be feel pretty rubbish since the race , but I guess that ' s what you get when you swim in " — S - H - 1 - t — " the swim should have be cancel . " I hope Mr Birtwhistle be reassure by the comment of Northumbrian Water that the high level of E . coli detect in the water near to where the swim event take place have nothing to do with the sickness he experience on the day of the racing . I be disappointed that , in her letter to I , Heidi Mottram CBE fail to address any of the other issue that be raise in the debate on Tuesday 5 December . they include the issue of debt and dividend , investment , and how to regulate water company to implement some level of corporate responsibility . the Guardian , which study financial document of all the privatised water company from 1990 to 2023 , say that Northumbrian Water be far from the worst - perform water company , which I think make the follow statistic really rather worrying . the Guardian find that 19 % of Northumbrian Water ' s consumer bill be spend service debt . the debt owe by Northumbrian Water be £ 3 . 5 billion . over the same period , it pay £ 3 . 7 billion in shareholder dividend . do the Minister think it be acceptable to use debt to pay shareholder dividend ? as a consumer I be outraged , as I be sure be a large number of my constituent . if this be any other product or service , I could choose to change supplier . even in the rail industry — heaven know , I have be a critic of poor service — I at least have the opportunity to highlight to Ministers fail train operating company and to advocate that they should be strip of their contract for fail to deliver for the travel public . but water be unique . I can think of no other essential public service that have be privatise where there be no consumer choice or accountability . water be a private monopoly and a natural monopoly that be essential for life . it be vital national infrastructure . the Government be entitle to impose a strict level of oversight and scrutiny . it will come as no surprise to the Minister , I be sure , that I personally believe that water should be publicly own , run in the national interest and deliver public policy goal . however , I accept that neither the Conservatives nor my own Labour Front Benchers have an appetite for a publicly own water industry , so I want to propose an alternative . first , end the use of debt to pay for dividend . secondly , prohibit the payment of dividend until debt goal be meet . any profit in the system must go towards water sewerage infrastructure and lower debt . water company be major polluter . although Northumbrian Water be adamant about the Sunderland triathlon , there be no doubt that it be routinely pollute river and sea . in my constituency , the Safer Seas and Rivers Service app show that there be three sewage overflow in my constituency , from which there be 184 sewage discharge alert in 2023 — almost one every third day . Northumbrian Water be not limit these sewage overflow to rare and extreme weather condition ; it a matter of routine disposal of waste . my third proposal be that there should be no dividend payment until clean water target be meet . we need all available resource go towards improvement , upgrade and new infrastructure . the promise of privatisation be always about improved standard , low bill and more consumer choice , but experience suggest that the reverse happen : we get low standard , high bill and no choice . therefore , the Government should put an expectation , or indeed a requirement , on private monopoly to deliver for the taxpayer . I be not tell the Government to block profit and shareholder dividend forever — quite the reverse . private water company that deliver public policy goal and low consumer bill , and that make real profit rather than artificial profit fund through debt , could reasonably argue that they deserve to be reward , but I have no trust or confidence in the private sector to deliver essential public service in the public interest . the list of disaster be there for all to see , and it be far long than just water . it include probation , prison , NHS dentistry , bus service , rail , social care , Royal Mail , the Post Office Horizon scandal and energy . everything seem to be break , and there be no - risk reward for the private sector . failure do not affect company , with service and contract hand back , even when they fail to deliver , have already extract their profit . the Government take a hard line against the poor in society , with stringent rule , benefit sanction regime and limit on social security . however , when it come to billion of pound of public contract , they allow the taxpayer to be exploit and systematically milk . frankly , it be not acceptable . if the law do not allow the Government to hold fail company accountable , we must legislate and change the law . I believe that we need a corporate responsibility Bill — a Bill with tooth — to ensure that the Treasury be the guardian of public money , not a cash point for corporate greed and irresponsibility . our water company be the epitome of corporate greed and irresponsibility . as an industry , they have extract immense profit while ramp up debt and fail to invest in order to end the dumping of raw sewage into our river and sea . where be the risk ? it lie not with these irresponsible company , but with the taxpayer . when a company collapse under the weight of its debt after decade of underinvestment , who have to step in ? the taxpayer , who be force to clean up the mess of corporate irresponsibility and get these service up and run to an acceptable standard , only for a Conservative Government to sell they off again . I be deeply sceptical . water be privatised , with company collect their reward and pay out dividend . however , there be no free market ; there be a private monopoly . as a consumer , I be appal that , at the first sight of rain , our local network hit peak capacity and sewage be dump into our river and sea . I want to penalise water company that fail to protect our environment . if their business be clean water , the product of our privatised water company be defective . the Government can continue to back corporate greed over public interest and maintain an indefensible system of privatisation that deny the public consumer choice , which be the ultimate tool of accountability . but I hope the Minister will explain to my constituent how he will deliver a zero - waste , zero - pollution policy and end the routine dumping of raw sewage on the east Durham heritage coastline . I thank the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for secure this important debate and welcome the opportunity to respond to some the point he have make . as we all know , our waterway be a precious resource and their management be something on which this government have be lead the way , in take incredibly serious action against those who pollute . in April 2023 , the Government introduce our " plan for Water " , which mark a step change in how we manage our water . this will deliver more investment , strong regulation and tough enforcement to tackle pollution and clean up water . the Government have also set stringent target to tackle sewage spill , prioritise bathing water and site of special scientific interest just like the Durham coast SSSI . to improve our waterway , the Government be clear that we need to hold to account robustly those who pollute , include our water company , as customer rightly expect we to do . yesterday we announce that we be significantly increase our oversight of the water industry . every water company should expect their waste water treatment site to be regularly inspect , which include unannounced inspection . the number of inspection will rise to 4 , 000 by the end of March 2025 , which be a 370 % increase . also , on 12 February the Environment Secretary announce that Ofwat will be consult on ban water boss receive bonus if a water company have commit a serious criminal breach . Ofwat will take forward a consultation to define the criterion for a ban , which could include the prosecution of a category 1 or category 2 pollution incident — such as cause significant pollution at a bathing water site location or a conservation area — or where a water company have be find guilty of a serious management fail . the ban would apply to all executive board member and the chief executive who sit on that board , and we expect it to come into effect later this year . the Government be clear that no one should be reward for a serious criminal breach while manage and operate a water company , should that serious breach take place on their watch . this build on Ofwat ' s announcement last year to tighten restriction on bonus , use power give to the regulator through the Environment Act 2021 . let we be clear : tough enforcement require more monitoring . to ensure that robust action be take , we be hold the water industry to account on a scale that have never be see before . this government be drive up monitoring and transparency to ensure that the public can see what be go on , and this start with monitoring . this government have achieve 100 % monitoring of England ' s storm overflow , which be a vast improvement on the just 7 % of storm overflow that be monitor under Labour in 2010 . this be a major step forward in protect our precious water body as well as the community and wildlife that rely on they . meet this target be a significant achievement in create positive environmental change and an ability to hold to account the water company that pollute . regard Northumbrian Water , the water and sewerage company service the east Durham area , I be aware that no serious pollution incident be record in 2022 or 2023 . however , I be aware that there have be a concern increase in the number of pollution incident that have take place over a long period . since January 2015 , Northumbrian Water have face three prosecution and a total of £ 807 , 000 in fine from the Environment Agency . the most recent prosecution follow two consecutive day in March 2017 of raw sewage be release from manhole chamber in Bishop Auckland , which be completely unacceptable . Northumbrian Water be one of six water company with live case for potential failure at sewage treatment work that may have lead to unpermitted sewage discharge into the environment . I be happy to meet the hon . member if there be other matter that he wish to raise . I thank the Minister for his response but , in term of serious notifiable incident , there be 184 sewage discharge water alert in 2023 , which be a huge number . I be not sure of the establish definition of " serious " , but what be his view of the level of dividend be pay and of the business plan be operate by Northumbrian Water and , presumably , other privatised water company ? they be securitise asset , include Kielder Water , the big reservoir in western Europe , and use the proceed to pay shareholder dividend , rather than to repair infrastructure . what be his view on that ? the hon . Gentleman will have note what I say about want to tighten up the bonus pay not only to chief executive but to executive board member . early this year , the Government announce tight measure , relate specifically to environmental performance , for Ofwat to be able to challenge dividend . last year , to tackle storm overflow discharge , we update our storm overflow discharge reduction plan , which set stringent target to reduce storm overflow . it prioritise action on overflow that discharge into ecologically sensitive site such as sssi , area of outstanding natural beauty and bathing water . it will also drive water company to deliver their large ever infrastructure programme , an incredible £ 60 billion over the next 25 year . we be already see many water company accelerate their investment in increase the asset they oversee . moreover , I be aware that there be three designate bathing water on the County Durham coastline in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency : Seaham Hall , Seaham beach and Crimdon . substantial improvement have be make to English bathing water in recent year . almost 90 % of designate bathing water in England meet the high standard — good or excellent — in 2023 , up from 76 % in 2010 , and that be despite strict standard be introduce in 2015 . these bathing water be routinely monitor by the Environment Agency during the official bathing water season from May to September . in 2023 , two of the bathing water site in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be classify as good , and all meet the minimum standard of sufficient . however , I recognise that two have deteriorate from the previous year ' s classification . the Environment Agency will investigate the reason for that deterioration in the region ' s bathing water . we be work closely with Ofwat and the Environment Agency to ensure that they have the tool and resource they need to hold water company to account . we have provide an extra £ 2 . 2 million a year to the Environment Agency specifically for water company enforcement activity . furthermore , in May 2023 Ofwat announce that its enforcement capacity will be treble follow the Government ' s approval of an £ 11 . 3 million budget increase . we have legislate to introduce unlimited penalty for water company that breach their environmental permit , and to expand the range of offence to which those penalty can be apply . for the avoidance of doubt , this include criminal . in our " plan for Water " we announce the water restoration fund , which will channel environmental fine and penalty collect from the water company into project that improve water environment . further detail of the water restoration fund will be announce . this government be go far and fast than any Government to protect and enhance the health of our river and sea . we expect water company , include Northumbrian Water , to use the next five - year price review period , PR24 , to set bold and ambitious plan to deliver for the people and the environment . that mean security of supply , clean river and beach , few leak , few supply interruption , great water resilience — so that we see a fit future for our river and coastal environment — and substantial improvement to tackle storm overflow . in turn , this investment will boost economic growth and create more job . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be , exceptionally , go to take a point of order , because I know that the hon . Gentleman have be ask by the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) to correct the record as soon as possible , and that he have give a commitment to do so . I would not normally do this , but I will this time because it be about a speech that be make early today . I be very grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be also grateful to the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal , who point out to I that I have get something completely wrong in the speech I make early . I say that she have present a ten - minute rule Bill , the Schools ( Gender and Parental Rights ) Bill , but that be not introduce by she at all ; it be in fact introduce by the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) , who be quite a different matter . I heartily apologise to the right hon . Lady — I be terribly sorry — and I be glad that you have give I the opportunity to do that as swiftly as I could , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hear the right hon . Lady say that she be grateful that the hon . Gentleman have do this as quickly as possible . question put and agree to . House adjourn .