I be pleased to be able to say something in the debate . the point make about the history of this really need to be amplify a bit more . it be a disgraceful deal , do in 1965 by the then Labour Government , that create BIOT and lead we on the pathway to expel the Chagos islander from both Diego Garcia and the wide archipelago . that be do when Mauritius be still a british colony , and the US be put on a lot of pressure to get a base to fuel the Vietnam war . that be the context in which the deal be do . the treatment of the Chagos islander , which have be write about extensively by some brilliant writer , be unbelievably brutal . they be drag out of their home , put on boat , and send to either Seychelles or Mauritius with no right , no acknowledgment and no real support whatsoever . they live for a long time in poverty in both those place . former Members of the House who have sadly pass on do quite a lot to try to support they . the late Tam Dalyell , former MP for Linlithgow , go to Mauritius to meet Len Williams , the new governor - general at the time , and ask why people be sleep on the street of Port Louis . he be tell , and from that point , he take up the cause of the Chagos islander , because he think they have be disgracefully treat . the late Robin Cook also take the matter up , both at the time and much later , when he become Foreign Secretary . we should pay tribute to they for what they try to do . the reality be that it be the Chagos islander themselves who manage to get some decency and recognition . Olivier Bancoult , who have become a great friend of mine , first write to I in , I think , 1988 . it be a beautiful handwritten letter , say , " Dear Mr Corbyn , could you do anything to help the Chagos islander ? " we keep in touch . indeed , I have meet he many time since , include recently at the launch of his book . the Chagos Refugees Group be found , and it operate from Olivier Bancoult ' s house . it make demand on the Mauritian Government , demand on the British Government and enormous demand on somebody who later become the british high commissioner to Mauritius , namely David Snoxell . he and Olivier Bancoult do not always get along . the latter ' s pressure on David Snoxell be enormous ; he once go to the extent of lock he in his office until they have a proper meeting . Olivier Bancoult be a feisty guy , and the group be feisty people . we should recognise that the group ' s determination bring about compensation and a litany of court case all over the country and the world . I have be to many of the hearing ; I have hear argument make in the decolonisation committee and at the UN Human Rights Council , and at a whole series of court process in Britain to try to get compensation and recognition of the right of the Chagos islander . today , we be deal with the consequence of the unbelievable heroism of the chagossian people , who have be seek recognition and justice . I regret that there be now difference within the chagossian community . Tam Dalyell and I strongly support the move to get a right to british nationality for Chagos islander , and to amend the relevant nationality Act . that be eventually achieve , and that be how , I be pleased to say , they now have unfettere access to this country . I be also pleased that the treaty continue to include that unfettered access . I hope that the Minister , when he come to reply , can explain what discussion he have have with all the element of the chagossian community . the last thing we want to see be division in a community that have suffer so much , and deserve so much decency and recognition . if the Chagos island in their entirety be not pass over to Mauritius and mauritian sovereignty , there be two consequence . first , there will be even great dishonesty than we think there be in 1975 , and secondly , Britain will be in breach of an ICJ judgment . if that be what people want — if that be what Conservative and Reform Members want — so be it , but they would be act illegally by hang on to the island . BIOT will go , and there will be mauritian sovereignty over the whole area . I support the principle behind the marine protection zone , although I do not support the no - take element that be include at the beginning . I want Chagos islander to be able to return to the archipelago , and to undertake sustainable fishing and so on . I be assure that the Mauritian Government support and recognise the need to preserve the pristine beauty of the ocean around there . I be less convinced that the military and the United States force be equally committed to the preservation of the natural world and the environment . the record be not good — not perfect . I hope that the Minister , when he come to reply , can assure we that there will be proper inspection , not just of the outer island , but of the sea and the land of Diego Garcia . it be wrong that the islander be remove . it be right that they have an opportunity to return , which be what they have always campaign for . I find it unfortunate beyond belief that they will only be allow to visit Diego Garcia . imagine if we could only visit the home where our parent live , or the grave where many of our relative have be bury . there be an emotional relationship there that will be break by the refusal of the right of abode in future . I understand from previous discussion with the Minister and other that there could be a possibility of the return of a right of abode . I be not sure ; maybe he can reply to that . be I happy about there be a huge military base on Diego Garcia ? no . be I happy about the rhetoric that have be use in this debate , which seem to be crank up the idea of yet another cold war , when we should be look for a world of peace , rather than one of war ? I find that depressing , and not really fit for this debate . there be a right of people who live under colonisation to achieve their independence . that be achieve by Mauritius , but it be thwart in 1965 . by agree now to return all the island and the archipelago to Mauritius , we be complete a process that should have take place in 1965 , prior to Mauritius ' s independence in 1968 . have that happen , and have there be no separation and creation of BIOT in 1965 , we would not be have this debate today , because the issue would simply not have arise . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Nesil Caliskan Imogen Walker Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Paul Holmes