I have have the opportunity to hear some amazing maiden speech in this House . follow such fantastic speech , I must admit that I feel a bit nervous standing here , but I be also deeply honour to be in the House . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd East ( Becky Gittins ) for her fantastic maiden speech and for graciously meet my family when they visit last year ; they be her constituent . it be clear to I that the talent , enthusiasm and fresh thinking that the new cohort of mp be bring into this House will help to restore our country ' s fortune and deliver the change that the country vote for . I be delighted to make my first speech in the debate on GB Energy . for many year , it have not sit right with I that our neighbour and trading partner around the world have benefit from the investment of UK plc in clean energy . whether it be wind farm build in Scandinavia , or investment in nuclear by our french Government partner , the UK public have be sell short on clean energy investment . it be right that the Labour Government be take forward plan for sovereign , safe and secure energy in the UK — that be very welcome in my constituency . I will use this speech to introduce myself and my constituency to the House , recognise the career of my predecessor , and to set out my vision for the future of Northampton . despite come from a family of teacher and educator , and despite the good effort of my dad , who join I today from the Public Gallery , and my mum , who be watch from home , school and exam definitely do not come naturally to I . after a difficult result day , I manage to get to university via a foundation degree , and I find my passion in civil engineering . I have be fortunate since then to have progress through the industry — from engineering to commercial and project management — and then into senior leadership role . I be really proud to have be recognise as a global leader in my field by my peer in the profession , despite a less - than - ideal start in life — one of my own making — and to have have my career shape by amazing experience , project and people around the world . I thank in particular my friend and mentor , Jon Williams , who have help I the whole way through my journey , and my very good friend and former podcast co - host , Jeremy Brim , for all their guidance . I also thank my former boss , Jason Millett and Davendra Dabasia , and my amazing former work - win team , for give I the space and support that I need to pursue my political passion alongside a demanding day job . I come to this place as an advocate for the build environment . to be honest , I could not be in a well place now , with a government focus on growth and on transform and future - proof our energy , housing and transportation infrastructure . many of my friend and industry colleague ask why on earth I would want to stand for Parliament , but my journey into the world of politic have be shape by my time in industry . I first see the impact of austerity on my public sector client , with school programme cancel , infrastructure investment stall and hospital leave cry out for funding . that drive I to join the Labour party and find my political voice , determine to ensure that our public sector get from Government the support and funding that it desperately need . when the opportunity come to stand and make a difference , I choose to stand where I live : Northampton . I meet my wife Katie , who also join we from the Public Gallery , just down the road in Wellingborough , and Northamptonshire have be my home for nearly 20 year now . I still have a place in my heart for my home town of Romsey , which be well represent by you , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] but I be proud to call myself a Northamptonian and to represent the town that I live in and love . Northampton South be a vibrant constituency . from Duston and Upton in the west , the Hunsburys and Shelfleys , Wootton , Collingtree , Hardingstone and Great Houghton in the south , and area such as Weston Favell , Billing and Rectory Farm in the eastern district , each area of my beautiful constituency have its own individual identity . in the centre of my constituency remain the legacy of the shoe - and - boot trade that be once the main employer in my town . the Church ' s shoe factory remain in St James , and the surround terrace in Far Cotton and Delapre be still stand strong nearly 200 year after they be build . as my hon . friend the Member for Northampton North ( Lucy Rigby ) note yesterday , Church ' s hold the honour of be the choose cordwainer of a renowned former Member for Sedgefield . great institution such as our university , our general hospital , our football club and our Premiership - win rugby club sit in Northampton South . [ interruption . ] I be expect a " Shoe army ! " then , but that ' s fine . my constituency include Brackmills , one of the most successful business improvement district in the UK . thousand of people be employ at brackmill , which play host to over 330 brilliant business , span food production , logistic and fulfilment , manufacturing , healthcare , and research and development . I look forward to work with the BID team to ensure that it continue to be a major employment hub in Northampton South for year to come . anyone who have visit my constituency or grow up there will know that we be the home of the national lift tower , which stand at over 400 foot high — tall than the Statue of Liberty . the formation of the newly shape Northampton South constituency mean that I have have the opportunity to take over from two former member of Parliament who have have very different experience and career in this House , and I would like to pay tribute to they both . Andrew Lewer , the previous MP for the former Northampton South constituency , be focus on parliamentary business and tackle the challenge that he see as the most important to the UK . he champion the Motor Neurone Disease Association , which be headquarter in Northampton , as well as independent school and house building . locally , he will continue to be recognise through the annual Spencer Percival debate that he help to set up in the town . he be also the only person to have hold the position of leader of a council , Member of the European Parliament and Member of this House — a testament to his public service . I also take over in part from Dame Andrea Leadsom , the former Member of Parliament for South Northamptonshire . many of the southern village that have now join Northampton South be in her constituency . Dame Andrea serve as a Secretary of State under the previous Government , and have a formidable record of championing parent and child , include by establish the Northamptonshire Parent Infant Partnership in my county . many of the people who have write to I since my election have praise her advocacy for they as their constituency MP . it be clear that she make a massive difference not only in this House but in our county . Northampton may hold the accolade of be the large town in the UK — I will take that up with hon . member for read after the debate — but our town have have a continual lack of investment , and a lack of vision and drive to make it well . unfortunately , we have have no shortage of conservative scandal : public loan to our football club go missing , our county council be make bankrupt , the former police , fire and crime commissioner stand down over misogyny complaint , and allege domestic abuse mean that that the leader of the council resign and now stand as an independent . trust in politician in Northampton be at an all - time low , but there be hope for Northampton , and it come with a Labour Government . this Labour Government will make Northampton a place to be proud of . we will tackle our chronic air quality challenge ; fix our road ; improve our bus network ; ensure that housing be affordable , of good quality and highly sustainable ; make work pay and a route out of poverty ; grow the co - operative , social enterprise and mutual sector in our town ; bring nhs dentist back to Northampton ; end the 8 am scramble for GP appointment ; face head - on the funding gap leave in our public service ; and address the special educational need and disability crisis that be rock our county . it be clear that there be a lot of work to do , but as I say in my acceptance speech at the count , the hard work start here , and I really mean it . I can not wait to get start . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to give my maiden speech in this important debate . the ongoing transition of our energy system be have a profound and , sadly , often harmful impact on many of the community in my constituency , so I be very hopeful that the provision in the Bill will begin at last to put the future of renewable energy in the service of those I represent . I warmly commend to my hon . friend on the Front Bench the proposal , of which I be sure they will be aware , for great British Energy to be give a duty to deliver nature recovery alongside its other objective . I begin this speech by pay tribute to my predecessor , who serve our constituency and this House faithfully for many year . the clear proof of the diligence with which he carry out his duty and the respect he earn from his constituent be plainly obvious from the feedback on the doorstep throughout the general election . I especially want to thank my predecessor for the work he do to support the campaign for Hugh ' s law to secure well financial support for parent care for seriously ill child , and also for his work fight for the restoration of the several internationally significant chalk scheme that flow through North East Hertfordshire . I look forward to do what I can to further both of those important project during my time in this place . although the many year of my predecessor ' s incumbency have all but erase it from our memory , I be not in fact the first Member of my party to represent community in North East Hertfordshire . the late , great , trailblaze Shirley Williams , when she be first elect as a Labour MP , represent many of the area that make up my constituency . despite the intervening 60 year , I find read her maiden speech from 1964 very helpful in prepare for this moment , for , as she say then , the constituency I represent be in " many way … a microcosm " of much of our country . North East Hertfordshire from Hinxworth to Bayford contain many small rural community full of important history and culture — from the home of George Orwell in Wallington to the stain - glass window design by William Morris and pre - raphaelite artist in Waterford . in Baldock , Buntingford and Royston , we have quintessentially english market town , home to fantastic independent business as well as nationally significant company such as Johnson Matthey . in Letchworth , we have the world ' s first garden city , build on the principle of the common ownership of land , which to this day offer a radical example of how to well design and build the community of the future . surround it all , we have some of the good agricultural land in the country , with local farmer such as those near Groundswell in Weston and Finches farm in Benington spearhead the ecological innovation we need to grow fantastic food in harmony with nature . yet in my experience of speak to resident right across North East Hertfordshire , the recur theme be of community dispirit and frustrate at have their need put aside in the interest of what other have call progress , so I will close by mention one debt of honour that I want to bring to hon . member ' attention at this time . I have be ask to keep the follow story anonymous by the family in question , but I believe it illustrate powerfully how the community outside our urban centre be too often treat . during the general election , as I reach the last road canvass in a particularly idyllic village in my constituency , I come to knock on the final door in a quiet row of terrace . after initially wait without answer , I be about to leave when I be call over by a voice from the passenger seat of a nearby car . the gentleman sit there be not old and be keen to speak , but be clearly very ill . between painful coughing and laboured breathing , he explain to I how in the construction of new housing in the meadow beyond his street , agricultural shed contain asbestos be demolish with almost incomprehensible recklessness in a single afternoon by worker who be themselves equip with virtually none of the necessary protective equipment . rather than the asbestos be carefully remove , it be smash up on site , create large cloud of hazardous dust right next to the exist home . the gentleman I be speak to have , tragically , subsequently contract asbestosis , which have ruin his health and leave he barely able to travel from his front door to his car . despite the concern he raise at the time , no one be ever hold to account for these action , and he urge I passionately to raise the danger associate with the rushed and unsafe demolition of agricultural building contain asbestos at the early opportunity if I be elect as his MP . I be sorry to inform the House that when I return a few week later to speak to he about honour his request and include this story in my maiden speech , I be tell by his widow that he have recently pass away . the chance for any meaningful justice for this family have now go with he . meanwhile , developer have no doubt pocket a return on investment that much fat for have fatally cut corner at the expense of local resident . whether it be profit - lead development , the cancellation of bus route , or the closure of bank and village school , the fundamental experience of town and village like those in North East Hertfordshire have too often be one of be do to and expect to endure , rather than one of be look after , work with and empower to contribute . it be this , above all , that I hope to chip away at in my contribution in this place . I thank the House for listen patiently to my first attempt , and my constituent for give I the opportunity to do so . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech during the debate on this important Bill . I welcome effort to provide renewable energy , bring down heating bill and support the growth of our green manufacturing industry . I hope the Bill will make clear provision for GB Energy to engage with local community such as mine in Eastleigh . I would also like to congratulate the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) on his excellent speech . I be incredibly humble and honour to be the Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Eastleigh , and grateful to all those who put their trust in I to represent they . I be also grateful to everyone who encourage I on my journey to Westminster , but particularly Baroness Floella Benjamin , the former MP for Eastleigh Mike Thornton and the family of David Chidgey . Lord Chidgey be commit to fight to keep our precious chalk stream , the River Itchen , free from sewage and pollution . as my constituent know , I be continue his legacy . I also thank my predecessor and his team for their prompt response to hand over casework . my constituency be a vibrant community of town and village . the town of Eastleigh grow up around the railway line between Southampton and Winchester , and be name by local author Charlotte Yonge . Eastleigh become a local point of aerial effort during the first and second world war , with Spitfires take off from the airfield , which be now Southampton airport . we have beautiful green space include Stoke Park wood in Bishopstoke , Flexford nature reserve in Valley Park , and Hiltingbury lake in Chandler ' s Ford . West end be home to the Utilita Bowl cricket ground , where the late great Shane Warne captain Hampshire , a proud part of our sporting tradition . we be also incredibly proud of our Spitfires , Eastleigh football club , who play in the national league . we have all be inspire by our extraordinary athlete compete at the Olympics and Paralympics this summer . I hope the House will join I in congratulate Eastleigh - bear three - time Paralympic champion David Smith on his recent bronze medal win in Paris , and on his tireless championing of boccia . Eastleigh ' s olympic heritage stretch back to 1932 , when local hero Tommy Green , who be unable to walk until the age of five due to ricket , go on to win a gold medal in the man ' s 50 km walk . my constituency be also home to the fantastic Point theatre , with its brilliant programme of cultural event all year round , include the always popular unwrapped festival , and we be lucky to have many fine pub and craft brewery , include Steam Town in Eastleigh town , and Steel Tank Alehouse in Chandler ' s Ford . I also recommend the luscious Victoria sponge at Fountain caf é in Fair Oak . Eastleigh have a proud history of help to support refugee and evacuee . in May 1937 , child and adult flee the spanish civil war be house at a refugee camp in North Stoneham . eight - five year ago this week , Eastleigh community welcome evacuee from Gosport , and in 1940 , refugee from Southampton . more recently , our local council be one of the first authority in England to house refugee flee the Taliban during the 2021 Afghanistan evacuation , and people across the constituency throw open their door to family flee the war in Ukraine . early this summer , Eastleigh host the always popular annual Mela , organise by our Asian Welfare and Cultural Association , and in a few week , it will be Eastleigh Pride . we have a warm , inclusive community in Eastleigh , which be very important to I , as be fight to ensure that everyone in our community can access the NHS service they need , include gp and dentist appointment , and mental health care when they need it . my mum die in March after a seven - year struggle with Alzheimer ' s , and as anyone who have experience of care for a love one with dementia will know , with that awful disease you lose the person twice . Mum be the daughter of irish migrant , a member of the woman ' s liberation movement who take I on my first march when I be a toddler , and a member of the Labour party who know mps Joan Lestor and Tom Cox well . she would go on to become a senior social worker . my dad be from Hampshire and a former officer in the British Army who serve his country for 16 year . although my mum and dad be diametrically oppose politically , they share a strong sense of compassion , and they raise my sister and I with those same value . unfortunately , my parent be never in a position to own their own home , so I grow up in rent accommodation with all the insecurity and uncertainty that go with it . when my dad die suddenly before my 21st birthday , my mum find herself in the position that far too many people be face today , with spiral rent and the prospect of eviction loom over they . since become the MP for Eastleigh , I have receive letter from resident face eviction through no fault of their own on an almost daily basis . I be proud that my party have be push for high standard for renter so that everyone have a safe and secure home . as a comprehensive - educate single mum who skip meal to feed my son and keep a roof over his head during the so - call great recession , I know all too well how easy it can be to fall through the gap . after 14 year of the previous Government , far too many family in Eastleigh simply do not have any kind of safety net and be live hand to mouth . it be incredibly important that we do everything we can to support those who continue to struggle with the cost of live and to lift child out of poverty , include by scrap the two - child benefit cap , as well ensure that all child have access to the education they deserve , include those with special educational need . I be passionate about ensure that all child and young people in Eastleigh and across the UK be give the support , resource and opportunity to thrive and fulfil their full potential . I will conclude by acknowledge the vital role that our local charity play in support family in Eastleigh , include Citizen ' s Advice Eastleigh , Pavilions in the Park , Youth Options , and many more . I promise I will do everything I can to support everyone in our community during my time in Westminster , and to be the strong voice in Parliament that the people of Eastleigh deserve . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech with my parent and husband in the Gallery today . I congratulate the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) , who give an impassioned speech show how deeply she care for her community , its heritage and in particular the history of care for refugee . she speak so lovingly of her late parent . it be the honour of my life to be elect as the first ever MP for Stratford and Bow . I be bear in east London , and I have live in Stratford and in Bow . I study at one of our brilliant local university , Queen Mary . to go from local student to local MP in 20 year have be quite the homecoming . not get our declaration result until nearly 6 am really do bring back memory of stumble home from uni . I pay tribute to the force of nature Lyn Brown , who serve her home West Ham as the Member of Parliament for 19 year , and for a total of 36 year of selfless service to community in Newham . a true east London girl , her guidance and support have be invaluable . I have no doubt that her contribution to the east end and public life will continue . I also inherit Bow from my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) . she be another trail - blazer , as the first Bangladeshi - origin woman elect to Parliament . she have inspire a generation with the promise of what be possible . although Stratford and Bow be a new parliamentary constituency , its history be old and rich . the Women ' s Hall at Old Ford Road in Bow be home to Sylvia Pankhurst and Norah Smyth and the headquarters of the East London Federation of Suffragettes from 1914 until 1924 . it be the beat heart of the east end suffrage movement , and the home of the matchgirl ' strike and the large union of woman and girl in the country . every corner be fill with the history of the struggle for woman ' s right and for our voice to be hear ; a history that I will work every day to honour . as a proud grand - daughter of a trade unionist and a member of the GMB union , I go forward in their memory and will continue to fight for work people . part of my constituency have be represent by illustrious political figure include Charles Key , Keir Hardie , Lansbury and Clement Attlee , who lead the Labour Government that create our beloved NHS — so no pressure on this new member . our stunning Victoria park with its breathtaking canal open to the public in 1845 and become the people ' s park : a centre for political meeting and rally with speaker such as William Morris and Annie Besant . it be not just political history that we be bless with in Stratford and Bow . I be sure that many hon . member in the Chamber love nothing more than go home after a long day sit in the Chamber and put on their favourite grime playlist . they can thank Bow for play an integral part in the origin of grime music , with Roman Road and its once - beloved record shop produce artist and crew such as Roll Deep and Skepta to name just two . over in Newham , we have our top boy Kano . I can see that I have completely baffle some hon . member — [ Laughter . ] for those whose taste be a bit more retro , we be also home to ABBA Voyage . my constituency be a place where people can come and spend their money , money , money in some of our brilliant local and international business . of course — it can not be miss — sit at the heart of my constituency be the London stadium : a place of joy and wonder from the 2012 Olympics and some of our most wonderful sporting achievement . as this generation of Team GB paralympian compete in Paris , I send my wish to they . the ability to bring people together that sport possesse be like nothing else , so it be a privilege and honour to be the Member of Parliament for the great club in world football — sorry , Keir — West Ham . as a Hammer since 5 July — [ Laughter ] — I be proud to be forever blow bubble . I know that there be several Hammers fan on the Government Benches and throughout the parliamentary estate — probably more of we than member on the Opposition Benches . Stratford and Bow be a wonderful , vibrant and diverse constituency , and our current heritage live up to that history . Forest Gate be the home of independent cafe and shop and Forest Gayte Pride , overlook the nature and beauty of Wanstead Flats . there be the bustling shop of Green Street serve community throughout east London , alongside mosque , temple , synagogue , gurdwara and church . it be a place that be truly representative of the rich tapestry of culture and people that make up our great capital city , London . People from all over the world have come to Stratford and Bow to make the UK their home . my constituency be a prime example of Britain at its good , with pearly king and queen , and white , european , Indian , Bengali , Pakistani , chinese , african , asian , middle eastern , caribbean community and more living side by side and work together to make a well society for everyone . wherever someone be from , they be welcome in Stratford and Bow . I be proud , too , to have origin as an east London girl bear in Homerton hospital , but I be bear here but by fate . I be the daughter of Tamil refugee and the child of a community that know what it be like to endure prejudice and persecution . my parent , proud and patriotic british citizen , come to Britain over 40 year ago , but they do not simply come here ; they flee for their life , force to leave behind everything and everyone they know and love , tear from a good and prosperous life in their prime to start from scratch in an unfamiliar country , work multiple job day and night to give I the chance that be take from they . Britain welcome my parent with open arm so that they could rebuild their life and flourish , and it be the east end that they first choose to call their home . this be the London that I know and love , and it be the story of Britain and british value at its good : outward look and compassionate ; a country where people can work hard and triumph . Mum and dad , thank you for everything : your endurance and your will to succeed — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] you be part of the success story of Britain , and that be a story that can be find in every corner of Stratford and Bow and in every part of Britain , with the hope and aspiration for a well tomorrow that all parent have for their child and the dream of a safe and secure life . it be that hope and determination to fight for a well future that this Labour Government will work hard every day to deliver . whether the people of Stratford and Bow be bear here , come here in search of a well life or just move to the good bit of London — whatever their start in life — I will ensure that their voice be hear and value . I pledge to work day in , day out to tackle the root cause of poverty , to fight for more police on our street so that woman and girl feel safe to walk home at night , parent do not have to worry about knife crime and young man be not have to look over their shoulder when they walk home after dark , and to fight for an NHS that be here for we in our time of need , where patient can be see in ward , not corridor . deliver my maiden speech during the GB Energy debate be apt . climate change remain one of the great challenge of our time , and we must redouble our effort . before I come to this place , I work internationally on climate action with city around the world , the United Nations and civil society to help stop our world go past the point of no return and ensure that generation who come after we have a world that have not be destroy because of our failure to act or our fear of be bold . I feel deeply the responsibility that I have to repay the faith that the people of Stratford and Bow have place in I and the duty that I have to be their voice here in Westminster . I will work every day for that and for the value and pledge that I be elect on . thank you . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) on that incredible maiden speech . her pride in her community really shine through and be incredibly infectious . I be truly honour to be give the opportunity to deliver my maiden speech in this House . I begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , Mary Robinson . despite our political difference , I have a good work relationship with she and be fortunate to work with she as part of the Cheadle town fund board , where we help to deliver much - need investment into the constituency , include develop plan for Cheadle train station . I know that Mary take great interest in local business , and her work on the board be testament to that . I wish both she and her husband Stephen all the good in their next chapter . I will also take this moment to pay tribute to my liberal Democrat predecessor for Cheadle . the incredible Patsy Calton be very much miss and be hold in a great deal of respect across both side of the House . Mark Hunter serve Cheadle for 10 year as its MP and serve in government as an assistant Whip . I have huge shoe to fill follow both Mark and Patsy , who be legend in the constituency . I hope that I can build on their legacy . I will also take a quick moment to thank my incredible team for lead such a brilliant and hard - fight election campaign , and my family for their support . Most of all , I thank my incredible partner Louise for all her love and backing over the year . it be here , however , where I must confess to break my first election pledge . not long before the general election be call , Lou and I find out that we be to be expect our first child . while we be , of course , over the moon , that news come off the back of a very hard local election campaign and amid Lou experience extreme morning sickness . so , be the supportive partner that I be , I assure Lou that this would be a first trimester of absolute peace , tranquillity and calm as there be absolutely no way that the Prime Minister would call a general election in the summer . we all know how that turn out . I put on record my apology to Lou for break that promise . I will endeavour to ensure that be the first and last time I break my word to a constituent . Cheadle be truly a brilliant place . we have wonderful green space , brilliant school and some fantastic high street , but what make the constituency so special be the people . the area be build on the foundation of so many community group and organisation , all campaign and work to make our community a well place for everyone . there be allotment group such as Billy ' s Lane who invite local school to learn about grow food and healthy eat . there be Cheadle Civic Society , lead by the inspirational Phillip Gould - Bourn , who protect Cheadle ' s heritage and historic character . there be many faith group include Cheadle Masjid , Grove Lane Baptists and Yeshurun Hebrew Congregation who provide support for our most vulnerable resident , and there be hundred of community organisation and friend ' group such as the friend of Carr Wood who be the guardian of some of our most precious green space and rightly challenge those who would do they harm . those be the people who make Cheadle so special , and I thank they for put their faith in I as Cheadle ' s Member of Parliament . I have always say that I would be their voice in Westminster , not Westminster ' s voice in Cheadle . that will always be my goal . there be much to do . our local hospital , Stepping Hill , be in dire need of investment . for too long , staff and patient have have to make do with a hospital that be literally fall apart . the out - patient building be condemn and be now demolish , and in March the intensive care unit , which look after some of the most critical patient , be temporarily close because the ceiling be come in . nurse have even tell I about bucket squad — for the uninitiated , this be a term they have coin for an extra duty they now have on shift , where they each have a bucket to place down when it rain to catch the water come through the roof . this be a disgrace . no hospital , let alone one as busy as Stepping Hill , should operate in those condition . that be why my first act as the Member of Parliament for Cheadle be to write to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , ask for the fund that Stepping Hill desperately need for repair . I be pleased that the Government have since say that funding will be make available , but until we get the detail and the money , I will keep fight to ensure that Stepping Hill , its staff and its patient get the funding they deserve . I will also keep fight to get my resident the support they need during the cost of living crisis . this be an issue of huge importance to I . when I be 13 , my mum , brother and I be threaten with homelessness because mum , who work several job to make end meet , could not afford the private rent . we face rely on friend who could offer couch or spare room to help we . the idea be sell as a fun holiday to I and my brother , but I can remember how anxious and worry my mum look and how conversation between adult would suddenly stop as I walk into the room . Life feel unsettled , and I could tell that my mum be scared and need help . it be a Lib Dem councillor call David Bruce who that help we , by fight and get we a council house . because of he , we have a home , give we the security and stability to get on in life . home be no long an anxious place . Mum be happy , and my brother and I could focus on our schoolwork . that experience inspire I to get into politic , because I see at first hand the positive impact that it can have on people ' s day to day life . without that councillor , I can honestly say I would not be stand here today . but that be not the end of our story . we still struggle . face with rise bill , mum would sometimes have to decide whether to put money into the electric meter or food into the cupboard . if I think about it , I can still hear the clunk of the pay meter go off and plunge the house into darkness . Mum would often joke that that be the cue for we to go to bed . sadly , I know from speak to my constituent that this story be still be live out all too frequently . the choice that many family have to make be horribly familiar . the choice to heat their home or feed their child should never be force on anyone , yet thousand of family across Stockport face that choice every day . I be proud that the Liberal Democrats on Stockport council lead the way by establish a warm space programme , support community organisation with the fund to help shelter vulnerable resident who could not afford to heat their home during the winter month . many authority be now do that across the country , but as wonderful as that is , we can not sit back and accept this situation . great British Energy be a step in the right direction . I welcome the move to restore british investment in clean energy , and if Great British Energy actually bring down cost for my constituent , that will be nothing but a good thing . I will do all I can to help my resident in Cheadle . when it come to the cost of living , I will hold this Government to account when I believe they be not do enough to support those who need it . well health service , support for the cost of live crisis and champion my amazing community — those be some of the thing that I will do as Cheadle ' s Member of Parliament . it be truly the honour of my life to be stand here work for the place I call home — the place I be now raise my family . I hope I will do Cheadle proud here . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) , whose experience and passion will be of great benefit to both his constituent and his local hospital , and to my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) , who will be a very worthy successor to those suffragette . it be a real honour and a privilege to be stand here as the MP for Truro and Falmouth . I arrive in Cornwall quite by accident nearly 20 year ago , have be sweep off my foot by a naval pilot who tempt I away from life as a London trade union lawyer , with image of beach and sunset . he fly search and rescue helicopter at Culdrose naval station . unfortunately , as be often the case , our military marriage be short , and I be leave as a single mum with a small son . but I choose to stay and bring he up in Cornwall , and it be very much our home . become a single parent be sudden and difficult , but I be fortunate . I benefit from the opportunity offer by the last Labour Government and be able to get back on my foot . I retrain and take a job as a teaching assistant work in a local secondary school for seven year , first in special educational need and later as an unqualified teacher , which show the journey that education have be on . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Cherilyn Mackrory . she serve in a number of role in this place ; she show her passion for the environment in her work on the Environmental Audit Committee and as chair of the ocean conservation all - party parliamentary group . she also draw on her own personal experience to help other . she do a huge amount to shape the woman ' s health strategy and maternity safety awareness , and be integral in introduce the new pregnancy loss certificate . both Cherilyn and her predecessor , Sarah Newton , work to secure a new woman and child ' s unit at Treliske hospital in Truro , one of the previous Government ' s 40 new hospital or unit . it be desperately need and a long time come . I have my son in the exist unit nearly 19 year ago , and the building be not fit for purpose then . I really want to ensure its speedy completion . Truro and Falmouth have exist as a constituency only since 2010 . it sit in the middle of the Duchy of Cornwall , spread from Falmouth on the south coast to Crantock on the north coast . Falmouth be my home , and where I have sit as a councillor for the past six year . it be a vibrant and welcome town envelop by the ocean . Falmouth have play its part in the history of Great Britain . in the late 1600 , the town be appoint the Royal Mail packet station , receive and send mail and message all around the globe , make Falmouth — for 150 year at least — the information superhighway of the british empire . however , Falmouth be more than its seafaring past . we still have two splendid castle , Pendennis and St Mawes , protect the entrance to the Carrick Roads , but the constituency be also the site of Falmouth University , build on the legacy of the famous art school that be still find on Woodlane , but now anchor across the border in the state - of - the - art Tremough campus in Penryn , which it share with the University of Exeter . the area brim with creative , scientist and engineer — whom Dawn French , the university ' s chancellor , describe as " enterprise dreamer " . if we follow the River Fal upwards , we reach Truro , Cornwall ' s capital and only city , with its impressive cathedral and award - win theatre Hall for Cornwall . it have Lys Kernow , the home of Cornwall Council , as well as Treliske , the acute hospital . the constituency also have a large rural element , with an array of beautiful village and area such as the Roseland peninsula , where farming and fishing be still vital industry . when research for this speech , I be strike by the word in the maiden speech of one of Cornwall ' s most well known and love Members of Parliament , David Penhaligon . exactly 50 year ago in this House , he refer to an economy that rely on tourism , traffic condition in the summer month that strangle much of the industry that keep the place go for the rest of the year , tremendous pressure on hospital service , sewage problem , pressure on housing , the problem of summer let and the low average wage in Britain . I be pleased that the measure in this Government ' s programme — a real living wage , the water Bill , devolution and renter right — will help to address some of those issue , but it be shocking that many of the issue that he mention then be , sadly , still very much in evidence today , half a century on . for a place on the edge of the map , Cornwall be too often at the edge of our thought in this place . like Penhaligon , I believe that Cornwall , with its proud and independent heritage , deserve well . turn to the topic of this debate , there be so much to be excite by . as well as Cornwall ' s potential for onshore wind , we have 20 % of Europe ' s requirement for critical mineral and geothermal energy beneath our foot , bury in our granite . we only have to look at a horizon dot with the ruin of engine house to know that the people of Cornwall be more than happy to dig for their treasure . Falmouth be a town with its face turn to the sea . the port still have a very busy harbour and dock , which have business service both military and commercial ship , as well as host cruise and leisure vessel . but there be potential for so much more , and the port of Falmouth be poise to take advantage of a new generation of offshore wind production in the Celtic sea . with the support of the new energy company GB Energy , the £ 1 . 8 billion port fund and investment in the skill train we so desperately need , our young people will be able to grasp with both hand the well - pay job of the future , while secure our own home - grow energy and face down the challenge of climate change — a challenge that be so important to a place like Cornwall , which stare the impact of the change climate in the face every day . we be the first large rural authority to declare a climate emergency and the 2030 net zero target . now , we will play our part in get the country to meet a similarly ambitious target . falmouth ' s time truly have come again as part of the Government ' s mission to become a clean energy superpower . Truro and Falmouth be the most magical place to live . it well and truly hook I and my small family , and have become part of I . my journey , despite its up and down , have be a charmed and happy one . Truro and Falmouth have give so much to I , and it be overflow with promise and brilliant , independent - minded enterprise dreamer . I be determined to serve my home as well as it have serve I . a bright future lie ahead for it . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech during a debate that be so relevant to my own wonderful constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , in the heart of Cornwall . I come to this place — and I be disappointed that the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) be not present to hear I say this — with 30 year of business experience in the automotive sector and , latterly , in the renewable electricity sector . I thank all those who have give their maiden speech today ; they be all truly heartfelt , wonderful speech . my own inspiration for be here come from my three child , my daughter and my two son , who join we in the Public Gallery today . I want first to pay tribute to my predecessor George Eustice for his work on animal welfare as Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , as well as his support for local project in Cornwall such as Kresen Kernow , the cornish archive , and — despite our profound difference on our relationship with the EU — the honourable way in which he be prepared to criticise trade arrangement make by the conservative party . it be an unparalleled privilege to represent one ' s home constituency , and the tie that bind cornish man and woman to our homeland be weave into every sinew of our being . the constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle be a truly remarkable place : the place where I be bear and grow up and where I live . to understand Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , I respectfully ask you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to transport yourself in your mind to the summit of a single rocky hill , smack bang in the middle of the constituency . this rocky hill be call Carn Brea , which be , in fact , Cornish for " rocky hill " . at the summit of Carn Brea sit the Basset monument , look down from 750 foot across the constituency . the monument be fund by public subscription in 1836 after Basset himself petitioned the other place against slavery in 1828 . to the north of Carn Brea , just 4 mile away , the Celtic sea sparkle in the sunlight and lap the beautiful beach of Gwithian , Portreath , Porthtowan , St Agnes and Perranporth — the Celtic sea , which offer the prospect of vast quantity of electricity generate from offshore wind , an opportunity that I dearly hope this Government will grasp . look to the west from Carn Brea we see the town of Camborne , pronounce " Kammbronn " in Cornish , mean " crooked hill " . it be a town that , along with its near neighbour Redruth , be synonymous with our tin mining heritage . the two town be once among the wealthy in Britain , help to drive the economy for more than four century . nestle in front of Camborne , a large flag of St Piran flutter in the breeze . this flag sit at the top of the South Crofty tin mine . there can be no fine physical symbol of the potential for the return of the cornish economic powerhouse than South Crofty — the last tin mine to close , in 1998 . the economic wind have dramatically change since then , and tin , which be use in the production of virtually every electrical device , be now also be use in the production of solar panel and , along with lithium , form the cornerstone of our critical mineral industry . we import tin from as far afield as China and Australia , with all the damaging environmental impact that come with such import , yet in Camborne and Redruth we sit on the third high - grade tin deposit in the world , and there be plenty of it . our sense of pride in our mining heritage , which be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , and the possibility of our tin mining renaissance be a constant source of hope and optimism for an area that have be damn by industrial decline for decade . but back to the summit of Carn Brea and basset ' s monument . far over to the west , on the horizon behind Camborne , be Hayle , the third large town in the constituency . although the official title of my constituency be Camborne and Redruth , woe betide I if I do not mention Hayle in the same breath . Hayle be a vital natural seaport , ready to serve the new opportunity in the Celtic sea , and it include a very large estuary . indeed , the cornish word for estuary be hayl . I have strong familial tie with the town , where my great - uncle , the Slade family , once run a steel engineering business on South Quay . let we look directly south from Carn Brea now , to the gentle rolling hill lead down through the beautiful cornish granite village of Stithians , Mawnan Smith and Constantine , and then on to the two stunning subtropical garden of Glendurgan and Trebah , which , in turn , lead down to the Helford river , from where thousand of american troop set off on D - day to free Europe from fascism . to the east of Carn Brea lie Redruth , the Cornish meaning of which be " red ford " , the cornish word for " red " be " ruth " and the word for " ford " be " red " — obviously ! redruth be rapidly become a cultural hub , and I strongly recommend visit to Krowji creative hub , Kresen Kernow — the aforementione archive centre — the Buttermarket , and the Ladder art and culture hub . our former prosperity be evident throughout the centre of Redruth , with impose granite building that be awaken with new life after a deep slumber . far to the east , beyond Redruth , can be find the village of Carharrack and St Day , which serve as a hub for the one of the world ' s wealthy copper mining district from the 16th century to the 1830 . just beyond they be United Downs , where Cornish Lithium , Geothermal Engineering and ground source heat pump company be base . these business have the potential to play key role in Britain ' s economic transformation . we have tin , lithium , geothermal and ground source heat , but we be also bless with the opportunity of offshore wind in the Celtic sea , onshore wind , solar and tidal . there be very few place in the UK in which renewable energy and critical mineral opportunity be so abundant . the renewable energy opportunity be not the only factor that make this land so distinct . let I quickly give three other example . first , 10 year ago Cornwall be grant national minority status under the european framework convention for the protection of national minority . our language , our culture and our heritage , as well as our economic potential , mark we out on this island . secondly , the positive reaction receive by all six cornish mps on both side of the House for take our oath in Cornish be tell . almost half our child and young people consider themselves first and foremost Cornish . finally , on Saturday my brother Dickon will be make a bard of the Gorsedh , the high honour that can be bestow on a cornish man or woman . this be an honour award to people who have give exceptional service to Cornwall by a manifestation of the celtic spirit or by service to Cornwall . it be these cultural difference that mark we out . it have be clear on the doorstep over the past two year that there be a strong desire for a non - mayoral model of governance arrangement with Westminster . my hope and my focus in come week and month will be to persuade the Government that the most appropriate devolution arrangement for Cornwall be an Assembly similar to that of our celtic cousin in Wales . in term of economic development , culture and governance , the time have come to throw open the cage door and unleash the cornish celtic tiger . for my part , I will put all my energy into represent the people of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle to the good of my ability . to do so will be the honour of my life . Meur ra — thank you . I begin by congratulate the previous speaker , the hon . member for Caerfyrddin ( Ann Davies ) , on make an excellent maiden speech . I also congratulate all new member who have make interesting and inspiring contribution today . I be delighted to be make my maiden speech as part of the debate on the great british Energy Bill . GB Energy will , of course , be headquarter in Scotland . with clean energy infrastructure already in place and the workforce to match , Ayrshire would be an ideal setting . however , regardless of where it be locate , GB Energy will create thousand of job and deliver energy security and low price for consumer throughout the UK . as it be customary , it be right that I pay tribute to my direct predecessor , Allan Dorans , who serve his constituent well through the last five year . politic aside , it be important to acknowledge the hard work and dedication that be ask of we elect member . we carry out our duty and represent all constituent to the good of our ability . in his maiden speech , my predecessor say he hope that voter in Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock would never again elect an MP to go to Westminster . on that point , I be glad to say he be wrong . I also pay tribute to my labour predecessor , Sandra Osborne . Sandra be the first labour and first woman MP for Ayr from 1997 until 2015 . Sandra be an outstanding MP and be still remember fondly by many throughout the constituency . I also pay tribute to her predecessor as MP for Carrick , Cumnock and Doon Valley , George Foulkes , who now sit in the other place as Lord Foulkes of Cumnock . Madam Deputy Speaker , allow I to say a few word about my constituency of Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock . it run all the way from Pinwherry to my beloved Dalmellington , with many rural and coastal town and village in between . Ayr be the county town of Ayrshire and host vital service such as Ayr university hospital and the University of the West of Scotland campus , as well as a first - class racecourse that host the scottish grand national . the constituency be also famous as the birthplace of Scotland ' s national bard , Robert Burns . Robert Burns be a global icon . his poem and song be renowned across the world . it would be difficult to pin Burns down on his politic , but our share admiration for the red , red rose fill I with quiet confidence . Carrick lie to the south of the constituency . Maybole and the seaside town of Girvan both look out on to the Ailsa Craig — yes , I have an island , too . Ailsa Craig be famous for granite , which be quarried to make curling stone worldwide . there be a joke that scottish woman make champion curler because they be use to sweep around dead weight . Cumnock and Doon Valley consist of former mining area , and Cumnock be a home to Keir Hardie , the founder of the Labour party . when critic take a pop at the Labour party , they say , " Keir Hardie would turn in his grave . " they do not realise that he be , in fact , cremate in Maryhill in Glasgow . a fine marble bust of Keir Hardie sit outside Cumnock town hall . it be a popular spot for a photo for lead Labour figure visit the area . even Michael Portillo feel oblige to have his picture take for his travel documentary . he , too , will be happy that this Government have be so quick to act to improve the great british railway . when hon . member decide to travel to my constituency , they will also find the magnificent Dumfries House in Cumnock . save by an intervention in 2007 from the Prince of Wales , now his Majesty King Charles , the project have develop much - need educational , research and employment opportunity across the area , with great success . there be many gem to be find across the constituency . however , my fond memory be of grow up in a small village call Dalmellington and be bear and raise in Bellsbank , as part of a scheme build to house the miner move into the area . picnic at the spectacular Loch Doon , pit party with all the miner ' wean and play kerby in the street — it be a simple life , but fill with joy . I be the proud daughter of a miner and an NHS worker . give that , I be delighted to stand on a manifesto to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme , and I be proud to ask about that very issue in my first question to the Government yesterday . as the young of four sibling , time be tough grow up in our house — it be a case of first up , well dress . these humble beginning make my journey to this place even more remarkable . the journey be make easy by my two beautiful child , who have support I all the way . my friend keep I ground every day , and I thank they for that . I have always be keen to push and challenge myself , which be why I decide at the age of 18 to move to New York , where I work as an au pair . if someone have tell my young self where I would be stand today , I simply would not have believe it . the odd be stack against I — back then , the glass ceiling be still very much in place . around that time , I assume a young Kamala Harris feel the same . thankfully , progress have be make . I be thrilled to sit as an MP in this place alongside a record number of woman . I be thrilled to see a Government with a record number of woman in Cabinet . I be thrilled that this Government have appoint the first female Chancellor in history . yes , progress have be make . in November , I be sure that the whole House will welcome the prospect of yet another glass ceiling be smash in the world of politic . I return from the United States to become a youth worker . through my work in the third sector , on project such as the Zone initiative and the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , I have support community to help they flourish . over the year , I have work tirelessly in those community to give child and young people the opportunity to socialise and to champion they . it be about provide vital training and employment opportunity to deprive area . my work in this place and in my constituency will continue in the same vein , as it always have — support community through public service . my direct experience of how local community be suffer be exactly why I be stand here today . the chance to change the life of people , who be often vulnerable and feeling leave behind , be a passion that lie deep in my soul . I will end with this : the day before his tragic , untimely death , the late leader of the Labour party John Smith end his last speech by say : " the opportunity to serve our country — that be all we ask . " I promise to serve my constituency to the good of my ability . thank you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also thank the hon . member for Frome and East Somerset ( Anna Sabine ) for her maiden speech , make on what I understand be a very difficult afternoon for she . I be sure that everyone in the House would join I in send condolence to she and to the family of her friend . this have be a most entertaining and enjoyable debate . any debate that marry ABBA , Stan Laurel and Shane Warne be one that I want very much to be part of , so I be delighted to have the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this context . it be also apt that I make it during a debate on great British Energy . it be apt not just because the transition to clean energy and tackle climate change be critical to Carlisle — flooding have already decimate our city twice during this century , and local village be too often cut off by localise flooding — and not just because we need to remove the obstacle that prevent Cumbria ' s farmer from connect their solar and wind farm , but because people right across Carlisle and north Cumbria tell I that they be desperate to see that cut in their energy bill . it be also personally apt that I speak on this topic . my great - grandfather , a Conservative alderman and councillor for Carlisle , be a man of unusually progressive thinking . in 1909 , he urge our city ' s industry to set aside coal and instead harness the hydroelectric power of the three river on which our great border city stand . I like to think that , whatever our political difference , my great - grandfather and I would have agree that great British Energy be not just right , but essential for Carlisle , for Cumbria , and for our country . I be the first Carlisle - bear Member of Parliament since 1918 , and the very first woman to represent England ' s most northerly city . it be a city of many little - know fact . for example , in the 1830 , it be home to Britain ' s first black police officer . in 1916 , David Lloyd George nationalise all our city ' s pub and brewery , declare that their intoxicate effect on munition worker be do more damage to the british war effort than the entirety of the german submarine fleet . in 1963 , the Beatles be throw out of Carlisle ' s Crown & Mitre Hotel after a complaint from the local golf club that the young Liverpudlians be too casually dress . my predecessor John Stevenson be himself a keen golfer , and I like to think that while he might be a stickler for the rule , he would have recognise the fledgling talent of the Fab Four , and would not have be so hasty in demand their removal . I say this because John be a strong advocate for the potential of our young people , and play an important role in secure the new Pears medical school at the University of Cumbria , which will open its door next year . in over 2 , 000 year of city history , the University of Cumbria be a relative newcomer , and its creation be testimony to the work of the last Labour MP for Carlisle , Eric Martlew , who do so much to secure a university for our city . I look forward very much to the opening of the new medical school , and the contribution that it will make to our Government ' s mission to rebuild our NHS and train the next generation — like my own daughter — of home - grow doctor , nurse and paramedic . my constituency lie between the Lake district and Hadrian ' s Wall . it be plentiful in sheep and cattle , and be populate by folk know for good craic and a love of XL crisp . for the uninitiated , let I explain that the XL crisp be a savoury , cheesy — no onion — delight , whose availability in the catering outlet of this House I shall passionately campaign for . I shall also campaign for more critical matter , such as the completion of our flood defence — defence that be promise but not deliver by the last government — the rebuilding of NHS dentistry across north Cumbria , and the growth of Carlisle ' s night - time and visitor economy . Carlisle and north Cumbria already have much to offer visitor . I challenge member to name another UK city than can boast not only citadel , city wall and a Norman castle , but a victorian railway station , a cathedral , and original Turkish Baths . at this point I must declare an interest , as chair of the charity work towards the refurbishment and reopening of Carlisle ' s historic turkish bath . it be one of only 12 original bath still in work order in the UK , the only one leave in the north - west of England and the only one with a tile interior make by the company responsible for the exquisite tile here at the Palace of Westminster . we be also bless with a rich industrial heritage . over the year , Carlisle have be a hub of food manufacturing , with the sweet manufacturer Teasdale , famous for its liquorice Nipits ; Cavaghan & Gray , which produce not just any ready meal , but M & S ready meal ; and Carr ' s biscuit , home of the Table Water and employer of generation of cracker packer . I could not be prouder to represent the city where I be bear and raise . I owe a debt to Robert Ferguson school and Trinity school for help a working - class child from Denton Holme to become the first in her family to go to university . without university , I would not have become involve in politic and would not have have the privilege of campaign for John Smith , a great parliamentarian , to become leader of our party . nor would I have realise the ambition of my distant cousin Ernest Lowthian , who be labour ' s first parliamentary candidate for Carlisle back in 1918 . in conclusion , I return to my great - grandfather . at the opening of one of the bridge that cross the river whose energy he seek to harness , he say : " our job as servant of our great border city be to leave it a little well than we find it . " that , Madam Deputy Speaker , be the task that I have set myself . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . in the interest of save time , I be sure you will grant I permission to skip to the part of my speech where I celebrate my great constituency of Leeds South West and Morley . it be the great responsibility and honour of my life to stand before you as the Labour MP for Leeds South West and Morley . alongside be a husband and a dad , this be the most important job I will ever do , and I give sincere thank to my constituent and neighbour for send I to this place . it have be nine year since Morley and Outwood , the old constituency , send Dame Andrea Jenkyns to represent we , and I would like to give sincere thank to my predecessor . Dame Andrea be a ferocious campaigner for the issue she passionately believe in . during her time as our MP , she be a strong advocate for animal welfare and always stand up for the people of Ukraine . she will always speak her mind and her truth to power , as member of this House will be able to confirm . while the list of thing that we agree on be reasonably short , we be in broad agreement , prior to the general election , that there need to be change in Prime Minister . I sincerely thank Dame Andrea Jenkyns for her service to her constituent and this House . leed South West and Morley be steep in history and tradition , and it be make up of some of the good and proud community in the country . the town of Morley be in the centre , and I be proud to say that I be raise there . however , some of my constituent will hear I say that and take issue , because I be in fact raise in Churwell , a village that be geographically attach to the town of Morley . while I will always call myself a proud Morleian , the truth be that there be distinct difference in each part of my constituency . each one have its own proud history and its own story to tell . part of Morley ' s history be that it be once home to the penultimate Liberal Prime Minister , Herbert Asquith . you can find his name on building and in street , include , I be sorry to say , the infamous Asquith Avenue , which be in desperate need of resurfacing . I know that some of the historian among we will never forgive Herbert Asquith — not for the quality of the road in his name , but for the shell crisis of 1915 , which see the british Army leave without the munition it need during world war one . this ultimately bring down his premiership , but give that the crisis be abate when the state step in to provide a solution , it stand as a reminder that , as powerful as the free market can be , at time there be problem and crisis that require the power of the state to solve . while I be share a snippet of the history of my constituency , it would be remiss of I not to talk about the place of the mill and the mine in the history of Leeds South West and Morley . whether it be the role of Morley , Tingley , Gildersome or East Ardsley in the heavy woollen trade , or the mine in the village of Lofthouse and Robin Hood , these industry have shape our constituency and the home that we know and love today . but it be not just the history of my constituency that make it great ; it be the people . it be the people at Drighlington village ' s Coffee Pot Memory Caf é , who do outstanding work for people with dementia . for their effort , they be recently award the King ' s award for voluntary service — one of the high honour that such an organisation can receive . I commend they for their work . while I be talk about Drighlington , I must also pay tribute to not one but two olympic medallist who live in the village : Jack Laughter and Lois Toulson , who both win bronze in the 3 - metre and 10 - metre synchronise diving event in Paris . I congratulate they on their incredible success . it be Lois ' s first medal and Jack ' s fourth — he now have one of every colour . in Churwell village , we be bless with the environmental action volunteer , who keep the community look outstanding . in Farnley , we have the 8th South West Leeds scout group , who work in conjunction with our litter picker to keep our community look outstanding . in Wortley , resident have go to great length to protect and restore the tv Harrison football field . Leeds United legend have train there , include Paul Reaney and David Batty , and I look forward to work with resident and the Leeds Schools Sports Association , which have responsibility for the site , to restore it to its former glory . although Farnley and Wortley be new addition to the constituency , it be a place that do not have its own community hub or library . but what it do have be some outstanding sport team that make up the community hub for our community in Farnley and Wortley . these be Wortley FC , the Farnley Falcons , West Leeds RUFC and , of course , New Farnley Cricket Club . Wortley be the place where I be raise my own child , Oscar and Arthur , who will never be able to call themselves Morleians , I be sorry to say . finally , Madam Deputy Speaker — I know that my remain time be very short — I want to reference the work of WF3 Kindness , which work across Tingley , Ardsley , Thorpe , Lofthouse and Robin Hood . its sole aim be to help people in those community to live strong and well life , and I look forward to support the charity in that work . these organisation and constituent have send I here to return politic to public service once again . they have send I here to restore stability to our country and our economy . they have send I here to plug the gap that they have often have to fill themselves . my constituent have step up for their community time and again , and it be my turn to do the same for they .