Oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Defence procurement : sme what step he be take to ensure that small and medium - sized enterprise be able to participate in defence procurement contract . what step his Department be take to increase support for sme in the defence sector . what step he be take to ensure that small and medium - sized enterprise be able to participate in defence procurement contract . what step he be take to ensure that small and medium - sized enterprise be able to participate in defence procurement contract . the House will note that this afternoon we be without the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) . he be halfway up Everest with a group of soldier , raise fund for armed force charity and raise the profile of veteran , and I be sure that the whole House wish he well . Most of we also think , " rather he than I . " this Government have confirm the big increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war , which will boost national security and make defence the engine for growth in every part of the United Kingdom . for too long , small business have feel leave out of defence , but no more . we be set new target to ensure that small firm benefit from that increase in defence spending . we be set up a new support centre to guide small business on access to defence and , for the first time , we be make british - base business a priority for british taxpayer ' defence investment . I , too , wish the Veterans Minister the good of luck as he climb Everest , and I be sure we all agree : rather he than we . in today ' s world warfare be change dramatically . drone cost $ 1 , 000 can destroy tank worth $ 10 million , but the innovation cycle for those drone be rapid ; they be design to become obsolete within month . we need a dynamic sme sector to produce those drone , but defence sme be struggle to get the finance they need , with a lack of long - term contract and a lack of guarantee . a multilateral defence bank could help to ensure that those firm get the finance they need . will the Secretary of State please set out the discussion he be have to help to found that multilateral defence bank ? my hon . friend be quite right about the fact that capability be now change in week , not month or even year . he be also right about finance . that be why I go to the London stock exchange last week and close the market — I think it be the first time a Defence Secretary have ever do that . I want to signal that this Government want a new partnership with not just industry and innovator , but investor , and that mean change the way in which defence do its work . I have meet outstanding UK sme , such as Supacat , 4GD and many other , which contribute to the sovereign industrial base that our security depend on . however , under the last government , the percentage of Ministry of Defence direct expenditure go to sme fall , from 5 % to 4 % . will my right hon . friend confirm when this Government expect to surpass that record and therefore back the innovation we need to equip our force and support our ally ? I congratulate and thank my hon . friend , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) , for the work that they be do on innovative finance , which will help sme in future . I look forward to the publication of their Royal United Services Institute report shortly . I can confirm that SME involvement in the defence supply chain will be boost by new spending target that I will set in June to produce exactly the sort of result that my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) be look for . when I speak at the Make UK Defence summit in Derby , I meet with lot of small and medium - sized business in the sector . the issue that they raise with I be echo during my visit last week to a local composite manufacturer , Pentaxia , include access finance to grow and complicated defence procurement process . what be the Defence Secretary do to engage with small and medium - sized company to ensure that they can get a fair crack at Government defence contract ? my hon . friend know well than most the challenge for small firm enter into the supply chain in defence , and she do more than most to champion their case . we want defence to do business differently , and make it easy for small firm and new entrant to start do their business with defence a big part of that . that be why we have announce a new SME support centre — a new front door for small firm that can then become part of the defence supply chain , unlock new job and put more money in the pocket of worker . early this year , I have the pleasure of host a roundtable and listen to business in Derby — small and medium - sized business in engineering and manufacturing , include the vital defence sector . with nearly 70 % of Government defence spending direct towards business outside of London and the south - east , we know how every pound spend with UK defence business have the power to create job and employment for local people . will the Secretary of State therefore outline how the Department will ensure that as many sme as possible be aware of government procurement opportunity , so that they can deliver job in area such as Derby ? my hon . friend make an important point . the access of sme to defence be very often through prime and subcontracting , rather than directly with the Ministry of Defence itself . it be the certainty of long - term relationship and long - term contract for the prime that allow they to pass those benefit on to small firm . that be why it be significant that when my hon . friend join I at the Derby Rolls - Royce factory when I announce the eight - year £ 9 billion Unity contract for Rolls - Royce , 240 small firm be part of that submarine supply chain . I do not wish to end the Defence Secretary ' s glitter career here on the Floor of the House , but may I praise he as my new favourite Minister — alongside the Defence Procurement Minister — for today announce the new £ 400 million investment in my Shropshire constituency for Rheinmetall to build a new gun barrel factory ? I thank he and his Defence Procurement Minister for work with I , across party and in the national interest , to ensure that the UK have the very late and most technologically advanced Challenger 3 tank — the good in NATO . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that question . we will always work across party in the national interest and in the interest of defence — I hope he be wrong that do so may ruin my career . nevertheless , I be grateful to he for notice the £ 400 million investment in its Telford factory that Rheinmetall be announce today . that be a direct response to the UK - german defence agreement that I sign in October , and it be confirmation that this be a Government who be deliver for defence . somerset ' s defence - relate sme help to make the south - west the big region for defence after the south - east . will the Secretary of State take a particular look at how sme be support Somerset Armed Forces Day ? they be a backbone of that operation . will he also look at the fact that Armed Forces Day be run by veteran and volunteer who sometimes do not receive funding until six month after they have hold the event , and will he agree to support the big Armed Forces Day in the country , which be Somerset Armed Forces Day ? there may be a competition for the title of the big Armed Forces Day event in the country — I refer the hon . gentleman to my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) . I be not sure whether his question be about sme or Armed Forces Day event , but I welcome the support that his small firm be give to Armed Forces Day . from the centre , we be make sure that we can support local Armed Forces Day event where council and local charity be willing to organise they . we be do so right around the country , and I know the whole House will back those event , locally and nationally . somerset be home to many grow defence sector sme , such as Needles and Pins Aerospace in Somerton , which will shortly be open a new factory in the town . it have be a supplier of bespoke support equipment to Leonardo helicopter for many year . what support be the Minister provide to sme such as Needles and Pins to ensure that they can compete for defence procurement contract ? if the hon . Lady alert her local small firm to the commitment I have make that next month we will set a target for direct defence investment in sme , she will then get confirmation of our commitment to boost this important area of our economy . she will also recognise that every 1 % more of defence spending we put into sme be worth £ 250 million more for those small firm . give that at the moment only 4 % of defence procurement go to the SME sector , I very much welcome what the Secretary of State be say about open up that scope . do he recognise , though , that part of the problem with sme get defence contract be not just the amount of money — although that be vital — but that the procurement portal and process need to be accessible for small business with less of a back - room operation than the huge corporation ? what can he say about that , particularly give that I represent a constituency in which the entire economy be sme ? first , the new SME support centre , which we have announce and will set up shortly , will help with exactly those sort of challenge . secondly , the hon . member be right to point to that low 4 % level of direct defence spending into sme . that be the level under the last government , and it go down for every one of the three year before the last election . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on behalf of the official Opposition , we send our good wish to the Minister for Veterans and People , the hon . member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , on his ascent of Everest . on defence procurement , we will all have enjoy the Red Arrows fly - past as part of our VE Day celebration , but the fact be that the Hawk jet need replace . give that one of the publicly state role of the Red Arrows be " support british industry " , will the Secretary of State guarantee that the next jet for the Red Arrows will be design and manufacture in the United Kingdom ? as a former procurement Minister , the shadow Secretary of State will know that the replacement of our jet trainer be long overdue . he will have hear I say early that , for the first time , this be a Government who will look to direct british taxpayer ' defence investment to British - base firm , British - base job , British - base technology and British - base innovation . UK - EU Defence and Security Agreement if he will make it his policy to negotiate a defence and security agreement with the EU . if he will make it his policy to negotiate a defence and security agreement with the EU . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of a security and defence partnership with the EU on NATO . this be a Government deliver for defence . today we have agree a new bespoke and ambitious security and defence partnership between the United Kingdom and the European Union . the sdp will strengthen NATO , the cornerstone of the UK ' s defence , and it will grow the economy . it allow we to step up more effectively together on european security against grow russian aggression and the increase threat that we face . the ill - advise decision to leave the EU in 2016 see we leave the European Defence Agency at the same time . with defence expenditure rise at record rate across Europe in response to the invasion of Ukraine , the EDA have a vital role to play in our national security . what plan do the Government have to secure a more effective work relationship with Europe ' s defence procurement strategy and to form strong link with the EDA ? quite simply , the answer to both the hon . Gentleman ' s first question and his second question be exactly the partnership deal that we have sign this afternoon . I welcome the news that the UK be deepen defence tie with the European Union , include participation in the € 150 billion Security Action for Europe , or safe , defence fund . however , give that France have previously say that it want the UK ' s access to be limit to 15 % , will the Secretary of State confirm what level of access have be agree ? this be a big step today — a broad and bespoke agreement between the European Union and the UK on security and defence — but it be a first step . settle the detail and the term of access for european programme , include the SAFE funding programme , be exactly the task beyond today . before be elect , I be proud to serve alongside our european ally , include French , dutch and estonian force , in Afghanistan and elsewhere . in the face of russian aggression in Ukraine , it be more important than ever that we build on those alliance to strengthen european security . can the Secretary of State tell we how we can do more to strengthen european mechanism for security , such as the joint expeditionary force , to build our collective security ? my hon . friend be right about the joint expeditionary force , and he be right to emphasise the importance of the step today . while NATO be the cornerstone of our european security — and recognise as such by the European Union in its White Paper — the step today will mean that we will be able to upgrade our co - operation with the European Union on the mobility of military mat é riel and personnel , on maritime and space security , on irregular migration and on protect our critical infrastructure . it open the door to close defence industrial collaboration , include potential participation in the EU ' s € 150 billion safe arrangement . will the Minister join I in congratulate the crew of HMS Dragon , which succeed in obliterate a supersonic missile with a Sea Viper missile off the coast of the Hebrides ? the Royal Navy hit their target thank to the work of the MOD Hebrides range . will he also congratulate they on their continue work ? I will indeed . we congratulate the crew of HMS Dragon on their professionalism and skill , and they will welcome my hon . friend ' s championing of that skill in the House this afternoon . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I have previously raise , during Defence question , my deep concern about the possibility that the Government would give away our fishing right in order to gain access to the European Union rearmament fund , but in fact it be far bad than that . be not the truth that we have surrender our fishing ground for at least 12 year and will become a passive rule taker , and that all we have in exchange be a glorify talking shop with not a penny of guarantee defence funding ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right . [ interruption . ] he be quite right , in that during the last Defence Question Time he talk about our not be exclude from the Security Action for Europe defence fund that would include EU state . I would have think that he would welcome this afternoon ' s agreement , because this be the open door to those arrangement . let I ask he this : do he therefore agree with his party leader , who declare before even see the agreement that will be sign today — include the security and defence partnership agreement — that she would tear they up ? support for Veterans what step he be take to improve support for veteran . early this month the nation celebrate 80 year since victory in Europe Day , and the Government announce the Operation Valour programme , a new UK - wide veteran support system to ensure that veteran have improve access to essential care and support . it be back by a new £ 50 million investment , start this year . the right of the charity PTSD Resolution — which provide vital healthcare service in our stretched NHS — to deliver service that imprison veteran desperately need have be take away in England . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how the MOD and other signatory to the armed force covenant can support the case of veteran prisoner , and to explain why precious support from a charity have be take away ? we make an election commitment to put the armed force covenant fully into law , and we will do that . the Minister for Veterans and People be work across Government to ensure that veteran receive the support they need from all service , include Op Nova , which provide for ex - force people who become catch up in the criminal justice system . I know that I can speak for my hon . friend the Minister while he be on Everest in say that he would welcome a meeting with my hon . friend , and I will ensure that it take place . I take it that the meeting will not be on Everest . the Secretary of State know as well as I do that one of the most distressing experience for our veteran today be the fear of be drag into court in the face of politically motivated prosecution after the Clonoe and Coagh inquiry , which open a month ago . some action will obviously have to be take to protect they . be the MOD currently research the legal , judicial and legislative requirement that be necessary to protect our veteran from this appalling treatment ? the right hon . Gentleman be right . we owe the Operation Banner veteran a huge debt of gratitude . their professionalism and , in many case , sacrifice of their life save civilian life and help to bring about the peace that Northern Ireland now enjoy . in respect of Clonoe , the right hon . Gentleman know that the MOD be seek a judicial review of the coroner ' s finding , and he will also know that I be work closely with the Northern Ireland Secretary to ensure that the welfare and legal support that we have provide for veteran who be catch up in any investigation be reinforce far so that we can protect this special group of veteran from the impact of such investigation . I call the shadow Minister . a group of Army veteran who feel totally let down by this Government have start a parliamentary petition entitle " Protect Northern Ireland Veterans from Prosecutions " , which have so far amass nearly 87 , 000 signature in just over a week . assume that they successfully obtain the further 13 , 000 that be require , may I ask whether we can then debate , in Parliament , the question of why Labour want , via its propose remedial order , to make it easy for Gerry Adams to sue the British Government , while legally abandon our brave veteran and throw they to the wolf ? I hesitate to turn this into a party political debate , but the right hon . Gentleman have just do that . he must accept that the previous Government ' s woeful legacy Act do nothing to help veteran . it be find unlawful over and over again , and any incoming Government last summer would have have to deal with that legacy , which be what we be do . I be work with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . I be look to ensure that we minimise the impact of any investigation on this special and unique group of veteran , who serve — with great distinction in most case — to keep the peace , secure long - term peace and protect civilian . labour could have appeal those judgment to the Supreme Court but choose not to . labour mp and peer have already vote for this barmy process in the Joint Committee on Human Rights on 26 February . labour will now be expect all its mps to vote for it again this autumn . give that many of the young soldier who serve on Operation Banner in Northern Ireland be recruit from " red wall " seat — from Barnsley to Blackpool , and from Bolton to Burnley — how on earth do this Government expect any Labour MP to do Gerry Adams a favour at the expense of the veteran who oppose he , and then to go back to their own seat and look their constituent , include veteran and their family , in the eye ? the previous Government ' s legacy Act have be find to be unlawful time and again . we have to deal with that problem , and any Government would . my concern be for the UK service personnel who serve in Northern Ireland over a period of 38 year , who be there to protect the peace , protect civilian life and prevent civil war . we support anyone who be now catch up in investigation or litigation with welfare and legal support , and I be determined that we will protect they far . I be work with the Northern Ireland Secretary as part of the plan for replace the legacy Act arrangement , and we will ensure that we discharge our duty to the veteran who have serve our country so well . troop mobility : Europe what step he be take with his international counterpart to improve troop mobility across Europe . as we speak , Exercise Hedgehog be currently demonstrate the rapid deployment of the 4th Brigade by road , rail , sea and air to Estonia as part of NATO ' s forward land force , with nearly 2 , 000 british service personnel in addition to those already permanently deploy to Estonia . to keep Britain secure at home and strong abroad , we be work with our EU , NATO and JEF partner to enhance military mobility . I thank the Minister for his answer . the new Rail Baltica , under construction from Warsaw to Estonia , be a potentially useful project to assist troop movement , if need in the future . do the Minister agree that we and our ally need to be agile to respond to the threat emanate from Russia , particularly in support of baltic state such as Estonia ? I meet the estonian ambassador and , indeed , all ambassador from JEF nation on board HMS Sutherland last week , and my hon . friend be absolutely right : fast , deployable force be vital deterrent against russian aggression . they underline our key commitment to NATO ' s eastern flank , and particularly our strong commitment to our friend in Estonia . we will continue to have their back and to ensure that we have force deploy there , secure that nation ' s freedom . defence Sector Jobs what step he be take to support job in the defence sector . what step he be take to support job in the defence sector . what step he be take to support job in the defence sector . this government be make defence an engine for growth across the UK . our forthcoming defence industrial strategy will grow a fast , more integrated , more innovative and resilient defence sector . prioritise UK - base firm for Government investment will drive economic growth , boost british job and strengthen national security . we be send a signal to the market and our adversary : with a strong UK defence sector , we will make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . increase our investment in defence not only bolster our national security , but be an opportunity to support vital , skilled defence sector job and boost economic growth . will the forthcoming defence industrial strategy spread prosperity across the region and nation of the UK , and will the Minister use defence procurement and investment to generate wealth and create high - quality job in the west of Scotland and make defence an engine for growth across Scotland ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . we be deliver for defence across all the nation and region . the Clyde infrastructure programme — a £ 1 . 8 billion programme — will create skilled job in the west of Scotland over the next 40 year , while deliver our triple lock commitment on keep the continuous at - sea deterrent . I recently open the Rolls - Royce submarine office in Glasgow , which aim to access skilled talent pool in his area to support Dreadnought and AUKUS - class boat . as he say , this all go to show that defence be an engine for growth . General Dynamics already provide good job in south Wales . as a former member of the Public Accounts Committee , I welcome plan to cut delivery time for the new communication and weapon system of the future . do the Minister agree , however , that we need to overcome public scepticism about defence kit take too long to get to the frontline ? I do agree with my hon . friend , because under the previous Government the average time to contract be six year , and only two out of the 49 major project they oversee be on time and on budget . our procurement reform will speed up and improve delivery to the frontline , and thus boost our defence and security . to encourage more people to pursue a career in our armed force , we need to ensure that the whole offer be strong , include accommodation . concern have be raise with I about poor performance by manage agent involve in maintain Ministry of Defence property in my constituency , often with complex subcontracting arrangement that make it very difficult to hold anyone accountable . I know of case where people be deal with a rodent infestation for six week due to inaction after it be report to the manage agent . can the Minister assure I that we be work to ensure that manage agent be hold accountable by the MOD ? my hon . friend make a good point . we be deliver for defence by put people at the heart of our defence plan . the new consumer charter for family in military home will include improved repair , a name housing officer for every family , and a well and clear complaint process . I be aware of the issue he raise about p control at RAF Wittering . this have be raise with Amey , the contractor that have the maintenance contract there , and I will expect to see an improvement . my constituency of Huntingdon be the home of our defence intelligence capability . it be also home to the joint intelligence operation centre Europe , which be an analytic centre for the US air force , and the NATO Intelligence Fusion Centre . Wyton airfield have recently be designate as a trailblazer site , and it could be a key location at which to build defence technology . will the Minister meet I to discuss the potential of build a technology hub in Huntingdon , alongside the combine authority and Huntingdonshire district council ? the hon . Member have set out a compelling reason why I should meet he , and I be very happy to do so . the Times have report that the UK have few than 10 tank station in Estonia and that troop number have be cut from 1 , 650 in April 2022 to around 1 , 000 today . by comparison , Germany have 5 , 000 troop on track to be station in Lithuania by 2027 . be this correct , and be it a concern for the Minister ? that be of borderline relevance , but I be sure the Minister can respond . the hon . Gentleman have set out some troop movement issue . we be move to a light formation , but there be no reason why we can not meet he and explain the situation in full , and I be very happy to volunteer my hon . friend the Minister for the Armed Forces to do so . there we be . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in dodge last week ' s peace talk in Turkey , President Putin prove once again that he have no interest in stop the fighting ; his goal remain the subjugation of Ukraine . moreover , this afternoon ' s report phone call between Putin and President Trump once again present the alarming possibility that , between they , the Kremlin and the White House will agree a carve - up of Ukraine , which would be utterly intolerable . what more be the Government do to invest directly in Kyiv ' s weapon production to ensure we strengthen Ukraine ' s ability to resist Putin ' s war machine , resist attempt at a carve - up by Putin and Trump , and secure maximum leverage for any peace negotiation ? Mr Speaker , I be wait to hear whether the hon . Lady have get the wrong question , but she fit it in and it be in order , so I congratulate she on that . we be co - operate across different european arrangement , and our own , to ensure we can supply Ukraine . we in the UK have step up , spend £ 4 . 5 billion this year . we co - ordinate a lot of the UK and european - wide effort to ensure that Ukraine can stand up to the aggression it still face from Russia , no matter what President Putin or anybody else have to say about it . European Rearmament Fund whether he have have recent discussion with his EU counterpart on UK access to the european rearmament fund . the landmark agreement secure today will complement our bilateral partnership with european country . it will pave the way for UK defence industry to participate in EU defence programme , support thousand of british job , boost growth and make our continent safe . I be pleased that today the United Kingdom be host a summit in London to reset our relationship with Europe — yet another sign that this Labour Government be restore our reputation as a global power after it be trash by a decade of Tory incompetence . will my right hon . friend outline what step be be take to ensure that our world - lead defence industry can access the european rearmament fund , to drive economic prosperity at home , benefit my constituent , and strengthen security across Europe ? the UK and the EU will use this opportunity to explore close collaboration across defence industrial initiative in a way that will support economic growth and job on both side , and help to prevent fragmentation across our share industrial base . we can now go on to discuss a bilateral agreement to facilitate participation in EU scheme such as ReArm and SAFE — Security Action for Europe . what financial commitment will the UK have to make to participate in the fund ? any financial commitment that have to be make will be subject to the further discussion that I have just set out . today ' s agreement enable we to discuss bilaterally what arrangement we can make to have access to those programme . support for LGBT veteran what step he be take to improve support for LGBT veteran . I be sure the whole House will join I , on the death of Lord Etherton , in pass on our condolence and sympathy to his friend and family . his legacy will continue to shape an inclusive and fair future for our armed force community . the LGBT financial recognition scheme have a budget of £ 75 million , which be 50 % high than that set by the previous Government . the Ministry of Defence have make £ 90 , 000 available for grant to charity , include Royal British Legion and fight with Pride , to support LGBT veteran in complete their application . one of my constituent be out and then dismiss from the RAF when he be just 21 , an experience that affect his whole life , so I be very pleased to hear that last week his application for compensation under the LGBT financial recognition scheme be accept and that he be due to receive his payment shortly . it be great to hear that the Labour Government be get on with the job for these veteran who be so badly deal with by the state , but can the Minister give an update on the progress of the scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue and that case . it be vital that no matter who you fall in love with , there be a place for you in our armed force . I be pleased to announce that since the LGBT financial recognition scheme be launch on 12 December 2024 , we have now make a total of £ 1 million in payment to the dismiss or discharge , to people who be terminally ill , or the over - 80 who be dismiss or discharge due to their sexuality . some 964 application for non - financial restorative measure have be receive and be be process . the recruitment of the independent panel and appeal board be complete , so payment for the LGBT FRS impact payment can begin shortly . NATO : european Security what recent discussion he have have with NATO ally on european security . what recent discussion he have have with NATO ally on european security . the Secretary of State and I be in regular and close contact with our NATO ally on strengthen Euro - atlantic security . last week , the Secretary of State and I be both in Germany discuss close co - operation and how to far enhance bilateral defence co - operation . the Secretary of State attend a meeting of the E5 Defence Ministers drive european leadership in Ukraine , and next month will meet ally in preparation for the Hague summit in June . NATO have never be more vital for Britain ' s defence and security than in this era of global instability and volatility . I be therefore alarmed that certain Green party politician have suggest that the UK leave NATO , abandon our commitment to our ally , include other european nation , and the defence of Ukraine and of our share democratic value . will the Minister reassure this House that this Labour Government will recommit to work even more closely with our ally for our collective defence , and will he confirm that unlike certain other party , Labour will always put the security of our citizen first ? let I be absolutely clear with the House : NATO be the cornerstone of our security , and this Government ' s commitment to the alliance be unshakeable . the Greens , if that be the case , would be out of step with the british people , who recognise the importance of NATO membership . we should also be clear that the only person who would benefit from take apart the NATO alliance sit in the Kremlin : President Putin . that be a victory we will not give he . the ukrainian military ' s response to Putin ' s invasion have be formidable . one of the way it have be so impressive be through its innovation in drone technology , with Ukraine now a world leader in strategic and tactical drone . do the Minister agree that it be important that the UK , along with our NATO ally , continue to invest in the ukrainian military , so that it can continue its fight for freedom and so that we can benefit from the advance in technology that the ukrainian military have bring forward ? I absolutely agree . the UK be co - lead the drone capability coalition with Latvia , and we be improve and learn from the experience of our friend in Ukraine . drone technology in Ukraine iterate every two to three week , so it be absolutely vital not only that we create the environment for new investment in drone technology , but that the UK military look at those lesson learn . I would expect a large part of the strategic defence review to be look at the lesson that we can learn from Ukraine and apply they to our own military . unlike certain other institution , NATO be an alliance of separate sovereign country . I thank the Minister for his strong support of NATO , but do he agree that we should follow the example of the frontline NATO state like Estonia and Poland , which recognise that the difference between deter a hostile Russia and actually have to fight a war be the difference between spend 4 % or 5 % of gdp on defence , as we do in the 1980 , and 40 % or 50 % if , God forbid , we ever have to engage in open hostility ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . this government be deliver for defence with increase defence spending . by April 2027 , we will be spend 2 . 5 % of our gdp on defence , which include an extra £ 5 billion for defence in this financial year ; that will rise to 3 % in the next Parliament , when economic condition allow . what we spend that money on be just as important , and that be what the strategic defence review , when it be publish , will set out . at the end of March , the US Secretary of State tell the Foreign Ministers of the Baltic state that the US want to continue participate in EU defence procurement initiative . what have the UK discuss with the EU about any exclusion of US company link to the security and defence pact ? it be certainly true that right across Europe , there be european and american firm provide the capability we need to keep our people safe . it be right that we continue those discussion with our european friend to look at how UK firm can participate , because UK firm be already present around Europe , provide resource , as indeed be our american friend . we all need to spend more on defence and we all need to renew our capability . we be work together to ensure that we have the framework and structure to enable that renewal of our force to take place . Armed Forces Housing what step he be take to improve armed force housing for military family . we be deliver for defence by put people at the heart of our defence plan . we have secure a deal to buy back 36 , 000 military home to improve housing for force family and save taxpayer £ 600 , 000 a day in rent . our new consumer charter mean that family will have a name housing officer , improve repair and a clear , short complaint process . our forthcoming defence housing strategy will set out plan to undertake a generational review of our property . in December , the Defence Committee find that two third of service family home " need extensive refurbishment or rebuilding " to meet modern standard . we know that poor - quality housing impact child ' s ability to learn and to attend school , as well as their physical health . what step be the Government take to ensure that the 3 , 500 child from service family who attend school in North Yorkshire live in adequate accommodation ? I agree with my hon . friend ' s analysis of the impact of poor housing . we have regain control of 2 , 793 of the 3 , 221 service family accommodation unit in Yorkshire and Humber previously own by Annington , after a landmark deal early this year . as well as save taxpayer rent that can be recycle into improvement , that enable we to plan a once - in - a - generation improvement of service family home . the detailed plan will be set out in the defence housing strategy later this year . support for Veterans : Operation Banner what step he be take to support veteran of Operation Banner . the Government recognise the important service and sacrifice of those force veteran who serve in Northern Ireland . More be kill during the trouble there than in Afghanistan . I be acutely aware of the anguish cause to those veteran and their family by historical investigation . while the Ministry of Defence continue to provide welfare support and legal support to those affect , I be determined that we will do more . Operation Banner defeat the IRA militarily and pave the way for the Good Friday agreement , so why be this Labour Government now push two - tier justice , to the obvious detriment of our brave Northern Ireland veteran and to the advantage of Gerry Adams and his Sinn F é in fellow traveller ? where be the justice in that ? this government be deal with the woeful shortcoming of the last government ' s Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . as we do so , we will give priority to strengthen the protection that preserve dignity and respect for our veteran who serve in Northern Ireland . Armed Forces Recruitment and Retention what step he be take to improve recruitment and retention in the armed force . we inherit a recruitment and retention crisis from the last government , but since July we have take decisive measure , slash the time it take to access medical record from week to hour and restructure the Army ' s recruitment organisation , and it be work . year on year , inflow be up 20 % and outflow be down 8 % , the Navy ' s yearly recruiting target have be exceed , Royal Air Force application be up 34 % compare with early 2024 , and the Army be see a seven - year high in application . it may or may not come as a surprise to the House that I be once a Royal Navy cadet . I believe that the cadet force be hugely important to retention and recruitment . the trouble be get people to step forward to help run cadet force . I wonder whether the Government will consider some form of inducement scheme to encourage veteran — we know that every community have they — to step forward and help organise the cadet . the hon . Gentleman be a role model for what someone can do by serve in the cadet force . they be a fantastic way of grow in confidence , learn new skill and , for many young people , find a career in the armed force . support those people who work with our cadet and help train they be vital . we know that there be a huge opportunity in expand the cadet and invest more , and that be what the Government intend to do . support for Veterans what step he be take to help support veteran into employment . the Government be expand UK - wide employment support for the armed force community through Op Ascend , a free advice service for veteran and their family launch early this year . we also continue to offer tailor employment support via the career transition partnership . national insurance relief for employ veteran come at really quite a low cost to the Treasury , but it be effective , not just in its financial incentive but because it open up conversation within employer . in write answer of late , the Government have be slightly equivocal about the future of the programme . can the Minister confirm that this programme of relief will continue to support veteran ' employment beyond the next year ? it be vital that we support our veteran . we have extend the national insurance relief for a further year . I be very happy to arrange a conversation with the right hon . Gentleman and my Treasury colleague if he would like to make a further case , and I be sure he would join a chorus of voice in do so . in January 1945 in Darlington , William McMullen , a canadian air pilot , be fly a plane across the densely populate town when it set fire . he steer it away from the populated area and evacuate his six crew mate , unfortunately lose his life in the process . this act of heroism have not be recognise by the Canadian Government because it be a training exercise , so I urge the Secretary of State to join my campaign , with local veteran in Darlington , for a posthumous recognition . I thank my hon . friend for the way in which she raise that case ; it be certainly something that the whole House can get behind . tell the story of the bravery and courage of those who serve in that golden generation be vital to ensure that we learn lesson from it and understand their sacrifice . I would be happy to arrange a meeting between she and the Veterans Minister to see what we can do with our canadian friend . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . last year , we pledge to the british public that if we be elect we would seek a new security pact with the European Union . today we have make good on that promise . the UK - EU security and defence partnership be an ambitious agreement . it will strengthen NATO , and it will grow the economy . in a further demonstration that defence be a powerful engine for growth , I can confirm that Rheinmetall will be open its new gun barrel factory in Telford , bring 400 new job to the area and boost investment in the UK economy by nearly half a billion pound . this be what reset Britain ' s relationship with Europe and step up on european security look like , and this be what deliver for defence look like , to make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . Abbey Group in Knowsley partner with Sweden ' s Saab to produce the world - class Saab Barracuda camouflage system use by the British Army . it be a prime example of british manufacturing at its good : back by international collaboration and provide good job . however , small and medium - sized enterprise such as Abbey need stability and support . what be my right hon . friend do to ensure that they get it ? we have commit to set new SME spend target and establish a new SME support centre . in the last week , we have launch a new tech scaler , and we will strengthen the SME voice on the new defence industrial joint council . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on the highly topical subject of fishing right , the Secretary of State will no doubt share my profound concern at report that last week Mauritius and Russia agree to deepen their co - operation on fishery and other maritime issue . do that not show that Labour ' s policy of spend billion rent back a military base that we already own be not only a waste of taxpayer ' money but a major risk to our national security ? no . it show that when we be elect last summer we inherit a situation of increase question and jeopardy over the continue sovereignty — our operational sovereignty — of the Diego Garcia base . that be why we have be take action since then . the Chagos chaos continue , as multiple report now suggest that no . 10 have put the whole £ 18 billion chago nonsense on hold . it have do that for fear that Labour mp , who be be whip to withdraw winter fuel payment from up to 10 million pensioner , will not vote for it . can the Secretary of State confirm whether it be still the Government ' s policy to stand by their crazy Chagos deal , or have he finally decide to give it all up ? the Diego Garcia base be essential to our security and to our security relationship with the US . it be increasingly under threat under the previous Government . we have have to act , as the previous Government start to do , to deal with that jeopardy . we be complete those arrangement and will report to the House when we can . with the defence review come , alongside the welcome extra investment in defence , how will thing change so that more school leaver in Bristol can learn about the opportunity in the military and across Bristol ' s wide defence sector ? a career in the armed force or a defence industry be a good career for any school leaver in Bristol , in Plymouth or anywhere across our country . I commend my hon . friend on the work that he and people in Bristol be do to promote a career in our armed force and the defence industry . there be good , well pay career available in every part of our country — indeed in every single constituency — in defence . last week ' s " Panorama " documentary bring fresh allegation of war crime by Special Air Service and Special Boat Service force , raise grave new question about the conduct of the special force during Operation Herrick in Afghanistan . it also highlight the vital importance of promote transparency and accountability across our armed force . in the light of these development and the ongoing public inquiry , will the Secretary of State consider look at how Parliament could scrutinise the work of the special force ? the previous Government , with our support , set up the Haddon - Cave inquiry , whose job it be to get to the bottom of any allegation and investigate they fully . that be the job it be do , and it have our full support — and , I hope , the continued support of the House — in do it . the hon . Lady mention the " Panorama " programme . anybody who be willing to talk to the medium about the information they have and what they allege must be willing to do the same to the Haddon - Cave inquiry . I meet Major Eales and the Derby and derbyshire Ex - Services Association , who do so much with fellow veteran at event all year round . follow the launch of Operation Valour , will the Minister join I in pay tribute to the work that it and other association do and tell we what be be do to encourage and recognise volunteer who support our veteran ? I be delighted to pay tribute to Major Eales and so many other volunteer who be work to support our veteran . Valour mark a departure from the pr - focus postcode lottery diet of short - term funding for headline that we be feed by the last Tory Government . no more stick plaster for veteran ; long - term , sustainable funding on a nationwide basis be what Operation Valour be deliver . will the Minister tell the House how much of the European Union ' s € 150 billion rearmament fund he anticipate will be available to our defence company , who provide high quality job , and to our armed force ? it be simply too early to say that about any of the nation , include all 27 EU nation . what I can say be that today ' s agreement be the necessary key that open the door to that potential for our Government and our defence industry . over the weekend , a drone attack be launch target a number of region , include Kyiv . it be arguably the big drone strike since the full - scale invasion begin . while I be pleased that significant headway have be make between Russia and Ukraine regard a possible prisoner swap , do the Minister agree that the Government must continue to urge for a wholesale ceasefire to ensure that no more civilian life be lose ? a sustained , unconditional ceasefire be the quick way to stop the killing while create the space for serious talk to achieve a last peace . President Zelensky have consistently show his commitment to peace . Putin have refuse to meet Zelensky in person while continue barbaric attack on the ukrainian people , as we see once again over the weekend . we will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . if the Government end up pay a fee for british company bid for european defence contract , will they charge the EU a fee when its company want to bid for british defence contract ? any arrangement that we make will be in the good national interest of this country and the interest of our industry . they will be fair , and they will ensure that our UK industry can participate fully in any programme and make the big possible contribution alongside the European Union , within the context of NATO , to make european security strong . the recent e5 meeting mark a significant step towards great strategic autonomy in Europe , with the security of Ukraine be central to that . do the Minister agree that , give the change nature of the threat we face , work ever more closely with our NATO ally be crucial to keep the UK secure and safe abroad ? I do indeed . our commitment to NATO be unshakeable , as be our commitment to our european friend , especially those along NATO ' s eastern flank that be be threaten by russian aggression . we will continue to work with our friend , include : with Germany via the new Trinity House agreement ; through the refreshed Lancaster House agreement ; and with our EU friend via the security and defence agreement sign today . that be a really important part of keep Britain safe at home and secure abroad . will the Secretary of State delay put before the House the remedial order until he be certain that the Government have a way of deliver the Prime Minister ' s commitment to prevent Gerry Adams from claim compensation ? the right hon . Gentleman be a regular attender in this House , and I suggest that he be here on Wednesday for Northern Ireland question to put that question directly to the Northern Ireland Secretary . only if there be the opportunity , I might add . do the Minister agree that shipyard — such as Methil in my constituency , which have be save by this Government — have fantastic opportunity to benefit from increase defence spending in the UK , and from initiative such as Programme Euston ? will she continue to do all she can to identify opportunity for scottish yard , include Methil ? I will certainly do that . Programme Euston be a £ 2 billion investment aim to deliver resilient out - of - water engineering capability at his Majesty ' s naval base Clyde by the early 2030 . market engagement be under way , but it be too early for I to let my hon . friend know of any kind of outcome . however , I recognise the skill and experience at Methil , and I welcome the certainty that Navantia UK ' s purchase of Harland and Wolff have bring to that facility . I look forward to see any bid that come in . the number of nuclear safety incident at Faslane and Coulport be on the rise . they include six incident in the last 12 month in which there be actual or high potential for radioactive release into the scottish environment . the Ministry of Defence have cease provide information to either the Scottish Government or the scottish people about the nature of these incident . furthermore , the Ministry of Defence have stop provide information to the Infrastructure and Projects Authority so that it can grade nuclear project on value for money and success likelihood . what do the Secretary of State think about this veil of secrecy over the nuclear enterprise ? I reject any accusation of a veil of secrecy . I will look into the allegation that the hon . Gentleman make , and I will write to he , or can meet he , if that be helpful . join a cadet force offer young people a fantastic opportunity to develop key skill , include enhanced communication skill , and to improve their self - confidence and physical and mental wellbeing . what step be the Government take to support the cadet , and to encourage more young people to join and obtain life - change skill ? I agree with my hon . friend : join the cadet be a great opportunity for any young person , and provide a lifetime ' s - worth of skill . the Government be look to make further announcement in support of our cadet , because the work that they do nationwide be exceptional , and the cadet be a superb platform for young people to build a career on . the british defence company Babcock employ over 2 , 000 people from my constituency . the long - await strategic defence review be due any day now , so will the Secretary of State set out how the Government will do more to prioritise british defence job , and british firm that will not only provide training and employment opportunity in the UK , but help to develop the vital sovereign capability that have never be more critical for our national security ? we will indeed . we will set out in our defence industrial strategy the detail that the hon . Lady want . she mention Babcock , which have welcome today ' s UK - EU agreement as a step forward , describe it as strengthen the critical defence partnership between the EU and the UK in uncertain time . I be sure that she will welcome that as well . I welcome the recent investment of £ 117 million in Rock barracks in my constituency , which will deliver new living accommodation , technical facility and a much - need upgrade to asset by spring 2030 . what plan do the Department have to bring unused military home back into use for family in Suffolk Coastal ? I thank my hon . friend for her welcome for that investment in her constituency . we have to do more to improve housing for military family , include in Suffolk Coastal . the defence housing strategy work include an extensive review of our entire service family accommodation portfolio to determine how we will use our property . it will report later this year ; she will then know more . one of Eastbourne ' s last survive world war two veteran , the incredible Eric Deach , celebrate his 100th birthday three week today , on 9 June . will the Secretary of State join I in wish he a very happy centenary , and thank he for his service to our country ? I would be delighted to , and if the hon . Gentleman would give I Mr Deach ' s address , I would like to write to he as well . I have the privilege last week of spend time on board HMS Sutherland , alongside the Armed Forces Minister . will he join I in commend her captain and crew for their vital service safeguard our subsea infrastructure ? what step be the Government take to protect our critical undersea communication ? as HMS Sutherland be a Devonport - base warship , this Devonport - base MP say : congratulation to the crew , the ship ' s company , the captain , and all those who make the visit to London so successful . the cross - party delegation visit be warmly receive by the ship ' s company . it be vital that we continue to invest in our capability , not just for protect undersea infrastructure , but for anti - submarine warfare . perhaps more important than the ship and the steel be investment in our people , and the Government be make precisely that investment . I recently drop in on an Armed Forces Network community event in my constituency , one of many organise by Lee Chapman , a veteran . the network be support by the council and local volunteer . I have be make aware that there be no official system automatically record and publish statistic on veteran suicide in the UK . a petition have be launch , but will the Minister look into that , and see what action can be take ? I congratulate Lee Chapman on the event that he organise in the right hon . Lady ' s constituency . I will indeed look into the matter , and if she have additional datum and information for I to go on , I would be grateful if she could let I have it . the war in Ukraine have show the importance of drone on the modern battlefield . the previous Government publish a drone strategy that be only 12 page long , and half of that be picture . they fail to fund UK company that be invest in , and make , world - lead drone tech here at home . will the strategic defence review correct that wrong , and support drone development in the UK ? [ interruption . ] the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , shout , " total rubbish , " but his 12 - page drone strategy be half - full of picture and totally unfunded . the strategic defence review will look at how our technology be change the nature of warfare , and will ensure that we can make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . follow the particularly adverse finding against the Special Air Service soldier in the Clonoe inquest , will the Secretary of State reflect on the fact that well law pertain to inquest in England ? in England , when there be a suspicion of criminality , the inquest be stop , and the matter be refer to the Crown Prosecution Service . in Northern Ireland , however , the inqu reach highly prejudicial finding , on the balance of probability , and then conclude , and there be then a referral to the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland . would it not be far well to bring the law in Northern Ireland into line with that in England ? the hon . and learn Gentleman know that the Government and the Ministry of Defence be seek judicial review of the coroner ' s work on the Clonoe inquiry . if there be other factor to be take into account and lesson to be learn , the Government will do that . yesterday , a conservative councillor in my constituency say that the Government be " dance to the tune of warmonger " because of their support for british defence manufacturing , despite one of those manufacturer be in his ward . do the Government believe , as I do , that we need to do more , not less , to support british defence manufacturing ? I agree with my hon . friend : we need to do more to support british defence manufacturing , and we be do more by reform procurement and prioritise UK - base business for the work that we can give they . land at Eastriggs in my constituency , formerly part of MOD Eastriggs , be declare surplus , and 18 acre be successfully lease to a rail business that provide important job in the constituency . however , the plan for the remainder of the site seem to have get bogge down . I hope that Ministers can expedite a decision , so that more valuable job can be create in my constituency . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that point . I will look into it and get back to he . Salute Her , a veteran ' charity in the north - east , do incredible work to support woman veteran with specific need in access support . will the Secretary of State reassure I that woman ' s voice and need will be hear and cater for in the upcoming veteran ' strategy ? we be develop the veteran ' strategy in close consultation with veteran and the organisation that represent they . they be at the heart of the process ; I can give my hon . friend that reassurance . I be glad that she be look forward to the strategy ' s publication . UNCLOS – – the United Nations convention on the law of the sea — be an incredible international anti - piracy and anti - drug - run tool , but as the House of Lords discuss in 2022 , it need upgrade to include measure on modern slavery and human trafficking . what work be the Government do on that in the international sphere ? the UK promote UNCLOS , freedom of navigation and the UNCLOS rule . I would be very happy to have a meeting with the hon . Lady , but a conversation with the Department for Transport , which own that relationship , may also be beneficial . the Minister may know that I have spend month convince british scale - up Aeralis to choose Prestwick as the location at which it will build a propose Hawk replacement — the first british jet build in 50 year . that would create 4 , 000 job . will she do all she can to bring Aeralis to Prestwick , and make the Red Arrows british and Scottish ? I have meet representative of Aeralis on a number of occasion , as have my senior official . the MOD have provide the company with considerable support as it develop its concept of a modular aircraft with digital design . the Department remain engaged with Aeralis , and with the sector as a whole , to seek a solution that will generate the combat air pilot of the future . we have begin consider what aircraft will replace the Hawk fast jet trainer , which be currently in operation in the Royal Air Force . I welcome last week ' s write statement confirm that the case of many of the Triples — the afghan commando who serve shoulder to shoulder with UK special force — will be review . what guarantee can the Minister offer that those individual will be protect , wherever they be , and that their evidence will be hear by the public inquiry relate to Afghanistan ? we conclude phase one of the Triples review last week , in which there be an overturn rate of approximately 30 % . the second phase will consider where we hold record relate to top - up pay . on the second part of the hon . Lady ' s question , if anyone globally have any evidence that they feel should be submit to the Haddon - Cave inquiry , the Government encourage they to do so . there be no geographical limit on who may submit evidence , and we be work through afghan relocation and assistance policy case to ensure that everyone get the correct decision , base on their circumstance . in my work in the charity sector in Harlow , I see that post - traumatic stress disorder be a huge barrier to not only get veteran into employment , but support they once they be in it . what will the Minister do to support veteran into and in work ? it be absolutely vital that we support veteran who encounter difficulty in transition from military service to civilian life . the vast majority transition successfully , but support scheme be available nationwide for people who have serve in our armed force , especially through Operation Valour , which be announce by the Minister for Veterans and People last week . there be more to do in this space . I would be happy to arrange a conversation between my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) and that Minister very soon , when he be down from operation mountain goat on Everest . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . well , as there be no question from Jim Shannon . I do apologise to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I be glad that the Secretary of State be here . as we have hear today , a very successful parliamentary petition be put up by a member of the public just over a week ago , and be support by a large number of regimental association . in the middle of last week , an email be send from the Directorate of Infantry to regimental headquarter . it say : " with immediate effect " — that bit be highlight in red — " please ensure that all of your communication channel ( include Twitter / X etc ) remove any feed relate to the Northern Ireland Troubles Act announcement and any associated petition . " regimental association be there to defend and look after the interest of , and to support , veteran . it be not for the MOD hierarchy to dictate what they can or can not promote , particularly through legitimate parliamentary engagement . veteran ' voice must not be silence by bureaucratic interference . be it appropriate , Mr Speaker , to pressurise regimental association to remove content that support democratic participation ? perhaps someone on the Front Bench would like to answer . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise his point of order . I be not aware that he be go to raise it , and I have to say that it be news to I ; most regimental association that I know can not be pressure by anyone from outside . however , I be grateful to he for raise the issue in the House . anything that interfere with the parliamentary process be of concern to all member of the House , and I will certainly look into it and get back to he . may I say thank you to the Secretary of State for answer that point of order ? it save I from get involve , but we recognise how important organisation be . nobody should be stifle . NHS and Care Volunteer Responders Service ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care if he will make a statement regard the volunteer and care service . I thank the hon . member for give I the opportunity to speak about this topic and highlight the important role that volunteer play in our health and social care system . the NHS have always benefit from the generous contribution make by volunteer , who play a vital role in support our patient , staff and service . we be grateful to the thousand of volunteer who donate their time to support the NHS in a wide variety of role , from help patient to leave hospital fast and settle in at home , to support emergency cardiac incident and provide companionship to patient during end - of - life care . the national NHS and care volunteer responder programme be first establish as part of the covid response , and then adapt to respond to other organisational pressure . however , a model that work well in that national crisis be no long the most cost effective way of facilitate the important contribution of our much value volunteer , so NHS England have recently take the decision to close the current programme . instead , a new central recruitment portal for NHS volunteer will be fully launch this year , provide opportunity for the current pool of volunteer responder to continue to play their part . volunteer will have have that information email to they recently . NHS England will also work with NHS provider that draw on the support of the volunteer responder programme to ensure that they be help in develop other volunteering intervention that meet their service need . the role of 50 , 000 additional volunteer who be recruit and support by NHS trust directly will be unaffected by the closure of this programme . that be in addition to many more thousand of volunteer who support the NHS either directly or indirectly via other local and national voluntary sector organisation . successive volunteering programme in the NHS be primarily run locally by individual trust and integrate care system identify the good opportunity for volunteer intervention that meet their specific service need . that mean local NHS action to build relationship with voluntary sector organisation and co - develop volunteering programme and pathway that support patient , staff and NHS service . there will continue to be opportunity to strengthen and encourage innovation in NHS volunteering at national level . the Government recognise the need for sufficient and agile volunteering capacity and capability of support in particular scenario , such as pandemic and flu season , when the health and care sector be particularly stretch . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . at the start of the covid pandemic , NHS volunteer responder be set up to support vulnerable people . follow its success , the previous Government expand the scheme into adult social care , form a joint nhs and care volunteer programme . that service have mobilise more than 750 , 000 ordinary citizen who have complete more than 2 . 7 million task and shift , include more than 1 . 1 million telephone support call , 1 million community response task and almost 400 , 000 steward shift . I see at first hand as a volunteer and doctor during the pandemic that NHS and social care team benefit from volunteer support , and I put on record my thank to all those who give up their time to support those around they . out of nowhere , the Labour Government have decide to cancel this service at the end of the month . no task allocate after 31 may will be complete , seemingly leave patient in the lurch . have the Minister think about the real - world implication of the additional pressure place on NHS local authority , the loss of institutional knowledge and the impact on vulnerable patient ? what alternative measure be be put in place to support the people who be support by volunteer ? the Minister say that something would be put in place later this year , but when ? why leave a gap ? the telephone helpline be open only until 31 May , so what happen if people need support after that ? will the Minister explain why the decision be take so suddenly and which Minister sign it off ? the volunteer website say that the decision be take due to financial pressure , so can the Minister tell we how much the scheme cost ? what be that cost as a proportion of the total NHS budget ? the Public Accounts Committee report publish last week on the reorganisation of NHS England be damn . the Secretary of State say he would " devolve more resource and responsibility to the frontline , to deliver … a well service for patient . " — [ Official Report , 13 May 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 1286 . ] however , cancel the volunteer programme take service away from the frontline . this seem to be yet another example of labour rush into decision without think they through properly , and yet another promise break by this Government at the expense of the most vulnerable people . the hon . Lady be right to highlight the tremendous effort that go into establish the programme very quickly at a time of great crisis , and to thank the hundred of thousand of volunteer across the country who take part and step up . it be a huge effort to get the scheme run and we be all very grateful for it . everyone learn a great deal from that ; as I outline in my initial response , we will be take forward those lesson as we look at the role of volunteer in the future . the hon . Lady say that the change have come out of nowhere ; they have not . we be look critically across the piece as we fix the foundation of our NHS and ensure that it be fit for the future . we be look at the most cost - effective mean of deliver the same outcome , which be why we will be move to a centralised portal for part of this work . we have email people about that ; some people may not have scroll to the bottom of that email , where there be an option to push a button to register their detail , so that they will be update as new system come online and we can make sure that we do not lose that great volunteering spirit . that be about digital technique for the future , use the most cost - effective mean and develop clear outcome . do the Minister agree with I that as we rebuild our NHS , volunteer at NHS trust will not be use to plug gap in service and staff will be allow to focus on clinical matter ? I be happy to give my hon . friend an absolute assurance . volunteer support and complement the exist workforce ; they do not replace it . include volunteer signal a recognition of the important role they play in support staff , service and patient . many hon . member be volunteer and we have all see how those volunteer can support the wide system . however , it be important that we keep our staff and respect their important role . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats . I be a volunteer vaccination steward during the pandemic , and the Liberal Democrats be hugely grateful to the thousand of volunteer who have make a difference to the life of patient and vulnerable people in their community since the pandemic end . their compassion and commitment have be inspire . we be concerned that the end of the programme have be announce at extremely short notice ; there will be no further shift in just 12 day ' time . will the Minister reassure the House that those currently receive help from the volunteer scheme , such as collect prescription or fetch shopping , will not be leave high and dry after next Saturday ? have the Department conduct an impact assessment ? if so , will it publish it ? as with so many major decision , such as drop cross - party talk on social care or cut funding for integrate care board by 50 % , it be concern that the Government do not come to the House first to answer question from hon . member . will the Minister reassure the House that these decision will improve patient care and that they be not just a cost - cut exercise dictate by the Treasury ? I thank the hon . Lady for her work volunteering and support the scheme during covid . the announcement be about NHS England . the organisation will continue to work with the NHS and voluntary organisation to ensure that where people be volunteer , that will continue , and that volunteer continue to be recruit , ahead of a full launch of the recruitment portal later this year . on her wide point , this Government be not drop talk with other party about social care , which be be take forward by the independent commission under Louise Casey . I pay tribute to all the volunteer across Calder Valley and the rest of the country who help with the fantastic vaccine roll - out . will the Minister confirm that despite scaremongere from the Conservatives , people will of course still be able to volunteer for the NHS and support other ? this be a good opportunity , which I very much welcome , to highlight again how important volunteering be to the NHS and the care system . it will remain an important part of our plan go forward that . People may have have an email and think that something be stop and that there be not more to do , but they should ensure that they press that button and register for upcoming opportunity and be in contact with their local nhs system . as I say , volunteering be do locally , and it be important that we support those local system and encourage more and more people to come forward to undertake this important work . I pay tribute to some of the volunteer across my constituency , who make such a difference to people ' s life . the Minister will have notice that polling by More in Common today find that more and more people feel disconnected from society . that be compound by the fact that so many of our community space be struggle to make end meet as a result of a combination of business rate change , national insurance rise and energy price rise . those health and care volunteer make such a difference by chat with those who be lonely and vulnerable in my constituency . have the Minister consider the impact of this decision , particularly in the interim period , on community such as mine ? what cost will not have this voluntary service to support people in their time of need drive into our health service ? I agree with the hon . Lady about the role that people play , particularly by have conversation and connect with people who feel disconnected . to be very clear , this decision be about particular arrangement : it do not mean that thing be stop across our country or with local health system ensure that volunteer be still available . we want to ensure that we use that knowledge in building system for the future . I be very pleased to host a roundtable with organisation as part of our 10 - year plan process . there be some fantastic idea and opportunity out there to use the knowledge we have learn , particularly during covid , to use technology to link with people and to recognise where people be not link by technology and ensure that they remain connected . all of that will form part of our future plan . before I ask my question , I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be an unpaid trustee of Helpforce , a charity that support volunteering in health and care and work with more than 100 NHS partner to embed volunteer in trust . as we have hear , volunteer make a huge contribution every day across the country , give their time and skill to free up doctor and nurse to focus on their clinical task . Helpforce run a scheme call Volunteer to Career , which enable people to try out through volunteering before make the transition into a frontline healthcare career . do the Minister agree that scheme such as Helpforce ' s volunteer to Career programme could play a huge role in fill some of the vacancy in NHS role and that volunteer will play a central role in deliver the 10 - year NHS plan ? I thank my hon . friend for her work , expertise and knowledge . she be absolutely right — she almost pre - empte my answer — that embed knowledge where it be need in the frontline in our community be exactly what we need to look to do , and we need to recognise where we can use volunteer well . we have micro - volunteer these day , which can help people to link in where it suit they , so that we can take advantage of people — I do not mean " take advantage " ; that sound bad . we can utilise people ' s opportunity — perhaps they be work different or irregular shift — so that they can give more , because we know that there be a great appetite out there to support the system more . this appear to be another rather muddle decision from the Government . the Minister have acknowledge that these volunteer provide a vital service , but if they want to continue they now have the inconvenience of go to the new portal , register and so on . would it not have be well at least to maintain the current arrangement until a new alternative be in place ? by the time we have provide extra support to medical professional and so on during the interim , will it have save any money at all ? I be afraid that I have to disagree with the hon . gentleman — it be not muddle . the analysis undertake by NHS England indicate that the current system be not provide good value for money , and we be make sure that we produce something well for the future . this government will continue to act in the good interest of volunteer , patient and taxpayer in set up the NHS of the future . I congratulate all the volunteer in my constituency , who do a great job . do the Minister agree that the huge increase in volunteer over the past few year be because the Conservatives run down the NHS ? now they be in opposition , they can no long run down the NHS , so they talk it down instead . well , we could — [ interruption . ] sorry , the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) be chuntere from a sedentary position . I partly agree with my hon . friend . yes , the Conservatives do run down the NHS and we inherit a broken system , but volunteering have always be a really important part of the NHS and the care system , so I pay tribute to those people who come forward . it be both good for the system and the people they help , and for many individual . we talk early about people feel disconnected , perhaps as receiver of volunteering , but we know how valuable it be for individual themselves to be give and volunteering , and we want to see more of that . this closure follow today ' s no - notice closure of the special care baby unit and maternity unit at Yeovil district hospital , and come amidst a crisis in our health service . I take the opportunity to thank the hundred of NHS volunteer in Glastonbury and Somerton , who give million of volunteer hour to the NHS , but with NHS trust implement staffing freeze to keep afloat , there do not seem to be any consideration of the impact that this closure might have . how will the Government ensure that patient do not lose access to vital support and suffer as a result of these change ? the hon . Lady make an important point : it be important to make sure that people do not suffer from change and that the impact be minimise . as I say , the programme be not deliver effective value for money , and we think the future system will . we encourage more people to come forward , to increase the sustainability of volunteering in local system . it be no exaggeration to say that during the pandemic , thousand of constituent be help out in volunteering role with the NHS and across their community in Suffolk Coastal . will the Minister reassure my constituent that those who want to play a part in volunteering can continue to do so ? perhaps she would outline the step they can take to register their interest . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we want to make sure that people in her constituency and all our constituency who have volunteer or who want to — those who perhaps could not at the time , but want to in the future — can do so . those who be already on the system and have receive an email can register via that portal , and we will make sure it be easy for people to do so in future . I have be remind by a note that people who volunteer in the very early week of the pandemic might have be on a slightly different system from those who volunteer later on , so I think there will be a slightly different process for they . we do not want to lose they . those who have receive an email can register through that portal , but we will make sure that more opportunity be available when that be launch , and I will be happy to update the House when that happen . I take this opportunity to say a massive thank you to all the NHS volunteer across the country , but especially those in Westmorland . it be a privilege to join with they — alongside my child , actually — to deliver prescription during that period , but the work of the volunteer in the NHS be not over . in community such as mine , we particularly depend on volunteer driver to help people in rural community who live hour away from hospital or from doctor ' appointment . as such , will the Minister take this opportunity to direct integrate care board and trust in Cumbria to support those volunteer driver , so that volunteer be value and patient be not isolate ? the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point on behalf of his community , as well as rural community more widely , about the role of volunteer driver . we need volunteer driver across a range of area — in fact , my husband be out volunteering as I speak , drive for another charity . we need more of these people . there be plenty of opportunity for people who have time , and NHS England will continue to work with icb to make sure we take forward the good of what we already have into the rest of the NHS . I thank the Minister for her answer so far . prior to my election , I spend 23 year run a volunteer programme in the NHS , include during covid and the covid response . we should thank not only all the volunteer who have be involve , but those who run the volunteer programme locally . local infrastructure be important . it be all well and good have a national system , but where the infrastructure work well , the system work well . where the system do not work well , it be due to lack of local infrastructure . what step be the Minister put in place to ensure that local infrastructure can support volunteering and make thing well for all those who contribute ? I thank my hon . friend for that contribution and her service in that role . she be absolutely right to highlight not just the people who come forward , but the people who run that local infrastructure . as I say in my opening remark , much of this work be do at a local level . the learning we must take from what the national scheme do be how we bring that together in a crisis . we want to make sure that the learning be spread across the country and that we can use digital technology and a portal , where that suit the many people come forward . she be absolutely right about local infrastructure and people to make sure thing happen . they be well place to know where the service gap be and where the people be who can support they . they provide an important link . we will make sure that that be part of our 10 - year plan . I thank the Minister for her answer . the importance of the work of the voluntary sector in the NHS can not ever be overstate , whether it be those who volunteer to help people find their way around the hospital maze , those who provide vital phone support and work within community or the volunteer in hospital radio . it be a huge loss , and the question be clear : who will replace these volunteer and the support they have give , which have make such a difference to so many at a time of vulnerability when they need it most ? the hon . member be absolutely right . we should be clear that the NHS and the care system need people . he be right about many hospital be a maze and the importance of that friendly face to greet someone when they go into hospital . they be knowledgeable and know that most people go into hospital not for a good reason , so they recognise the anxiety people have when they enter those place . we know the cheer that be bring by hospital radio and so on . I just gently correct the hon . member : we be not lose the volunteer . this be a change to a contractual arrangement , so the volunteer be still there . we still want to make sure that they come forward , as we have discuss . volunteering be more generally handle by local situation , and this be about the good way we can get the national system to spread into a local system . we need the local infrastructure , and we need to keep encourage people to come forward . I hope that , as a result of this urgent question this afternoon , we be highlight the role of volunteer and that more people will come forward . I echo the comment make today about the huge contribution that volunteer make up and down the country , help and support NHS staff , day in , day out . I declare a bit of an interest , as someone who similarly start their volunteer journey with the responder programme and continue now as a community first responder with my local ambulance service . can the Minister reassure I that those who wish to continue to play their part and to carry on volunteering in other way with the NHS can do so ? will she join I in take the opportunity to encourage those who be interested in volunteer to check for opportunity with their local trust ? we be learn so much about each other this afternoon , be we not ? I be pleased to hear that that be how my hon . friend start her journey , and I be so impressed that she be continue to do that . I be out with the ambulance service last week talk to staff , who highly praise those community first responder . the work that she and other be do be valuable , and I know she will continue to use that knowledge to feed into the work we want to do in the future . I thank the Minister for answer the urgent question . may I pay tribute to the many volunteer in Harlow , both those who support people during the pandemic and , in particular , the Butterfly Volunteers who support people receive end of life care at Princess Alexandra hospital ? I feel emotional just think about that they do . we find that it be good to seek volunteer locally in Harlow , both through Rainbow Services and through the volunteer co - ordinator Della Nash , who be wonderful but who , sadly , be make redundant by the last government . how can local charity and other organisation feed into the Government portal once it be up and run ? I thank my hon . friend for what he have say , and I thank the Butterfly Volunteers . support people at that really important end of life stage be hard and critical work , and I commend they for it . the local link be also critical : we need to ensure that people can be direct from the national system to local system , through NHS England and perhaps — if it be appropriate , Mr Speaker — through the House . it be in the interest of local Members of Parliament for we to ensure that what we have learn from the national scheme be continue into the local scheme , and , as my hon . Friend say , we need the local co - ordination and infrastructure about which we have hear this afternoon . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . notwithstanding the response to the urgent question that you be kind enough to grant , we still have no idea how long the gap in the service will last , or what will happen to the most vulnerable people who be use it . what other parliamentary mechanism could I use to secure the answer to these question ? I think that , in fairness , I can not allow the debate to continue , which be what I think the hon . Lady be try to tempt I towards . what I would say , however , be that I be sure that the good office around she will give some very strong advice . I be sure that the Table Office and other will be able to advise she on how she can pursue this matter , and I be sure that those on the Front Bench have hear her point of order . National Security Act 2023 : charge before I call the Home Secretary to make her statement , I must remind the House that the resolution of the House relate to matter that be sub judice prohibit any reference to case in which an individual have be charge . three man have be charge with offence under the National Security Act , and the matter be therefore sub judice . however , since this case concern matter of national importance and it be in the public interest for the House to hear from the Home Secretary , I be grant a limited waiver for the purpose of this statement only , to allow discussion of the wide security issue . member should exercise a high degree of caution in their remark and take every care to avoid say anything that could potentially prejudice the criminal trial . with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement about the charging of three individual under the National Security Act 2023 that take place on 17 May , and the further action that the Government be take to counter national security threat . I want to thank the police and the security and intelligence agency not just for their work on the vital operation and investigation that be currently under way , but for the dedication that they show each day to defend our national security and keep our community safe . their tireless work — often in the shadow , often in secret , and often in great personal danger — be indispensable , and I hope that the whole House will join I in pay tribute to their service . on Saturday , three iranian national be charge with offence under the National Security Act 2023 . all three have be charge with engage in conduct likely to assist a foreign intelligence service . additional charge be bring in relation to engage in conduct , include surveillance , reconnaissance and open research , with the intention to commit act of serious violence against a person in the United Kingdom . the foreign state to which these charge relate be Iran , and those individual be the first iranian national to be charge under the National Security Act . the criminal and national security investigation in these case be ongoing , and the police and security service have my support in their vital work . these case must now also progress through the criminal justice system , which mean that until the trial , there be limit on what we can discuss so as not to prejudice that process . however , in respect of a series of grave , wide issue , I want to update the House on the strong action that the Government be take to strengthen our national security , include the introduction of new power on state threat , further action on Iran , and strengthen our border security to keep the public safe . this be the first time there have be charge under the National Security Act link to Iran , although the House will be aware that it come against a backdrop of a rise number of Iran - link operation on UK soil , where there have be repeat warning by Ministers , the police , and our security and intelligence agency . the director general of MI5 say in October last year that the police and MI5 have respond to 20 Iran - back plot present potentially lethal threat . let I be clear : we will not tolerate grow state - back threat on UK soil . the iranian regime pose an unacceptable threat to our domestic security , which can not continue . follow the charge decision , I can confirm that the iranian ambassador have be summon , and my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have tell the iranian Foreign Minister in the strong term that we will not accept any iranian state threat activity in the UK . as the Security Minister set out in March , we have place the whole of the iranian state in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , which be due to come into effect on 1 July . the Government have also introduce sanction as part of effort to systematically dismantle the criminal network and enabler that Iran use to carry out its work , include the Foxtrot network , which be sanction last month . International co - operation be critical in challenge iranian transnational threat , which be why we be convene ministerial counterpart from allied nation face similar threat to discuss co - ordinate action , but we need to go far in strengthen our power to address national security threat . the Security Minister and I have both warn of the increase complexity of the threat we face . threat from extremist and terrorist group and individual , include from islamist extremism and far - right extremism , continue , and vigilance and action against they remain crucial . but malign activity against we by , or on behalf of , foreign state have grow and the threat we face have become more complex and intertwine . MI5 state threat investigation have increase by nearly 50 % in a year , and police investigation into state threat , lead by counter - terrorism police , be up fivefold since 2018 . as well as grow , those threat be become more interconnected , and the old boundary between state threat , terrorist and organised criminal be be erode . we have see malign foreign state organisation seek to exploit any vulnerability , from criminal network to our cyber - security and our border , to do we harm . in our manifesto we commit to strong action on state - base security threat . before enter government , the Foreign Secretary and I set out plan for the establishment of a joint unit to pursue and co - ordinate action . I can announce that the new state threat joint unit be now in place , with staff from across Whitehall drive a broad approach across Government and build new partnership with industry and academia . last week the Security Minister set out the recommendation of a review by the defend democracy taskforce into transnational repression — where foreign state attempt the intimidation , surveillance and harassment of UK - base individual — include provide strong support for those who be be target . this be criminal activity and will be treat as such , because everyone in this country should be able to go about their daily life freely and without fear . we have of course support the National Security Act , which be rightly bring in by the previous Government , but we need to go far . that be why I commission Jonathan Hall KC , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , to examine further gap in the national security legislation where counter - terrorism power could be emulate and to look at proscription power , because I have long raise concern that it be too difficult to apply exist power to state and state - back body . today Mr Hall have publish his review , and I thank he for work so swiftly and comprehensively . he have conclude that there be gap in a series of area , include proscribe legislation , where he identify a series of legal difficulty in use power that be design to deal with terrorist group for state and state - back organisation , such as the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . I can tell the House that we be committed to take forward Mr Hall ' s recommendation and that we will draw up new power , model on counter - terrorism power , in a series of area to tackle state threat . crucially , I can tell the House that we will create a new power of proscription to cover state threat — a power that be strong than the current National Security Act power in allow we to restrict the activity and operation of foreign state - back organisation in the UK — include new criminal offence for individual who invite support for or promote the group in question . we will not hesitate to use the power against organisation that pose a threat to UK resident , because we will not stand for foreign state organisation seek to escalate threat on UK soil . as be confirm at the weekend , the three individual who have be charge come to the UK between 2016 and 2022 by lorry and small boat . this Government have make it clear that border security be national security , which be why we be introduce new counter - terrorism power at the border . however , let I also be clear that our border security need to be strengthen . those involve in organised crime , malign state actor and extremist can all exploit any vulnerability , so the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill be introduce a wide range of counter - terrorism - style power to pursue organise immigration crime and strengthen border investigation . we have introduce the Border Security Command , which be draw together security operation around our border that have not be take seriously enough before , model on the approach that successive government have take to counter - terrorism . as part of our exist CT capability , security identity and criminal record check be carry out on everyone who apply for a visa through our immigration system , on identify clandestine entry and on those who arrive by small boat , so that immigration and counter - terrorism power can then be use to address threat , include refusal , restriction , tagging , heighten monitoring and immigration bail . however , I have instruct official to review those capability against the state threat as well as the terrorism - relate risk we face , so that we can strengthen our security response alongside the new counter - terrorism - style border power that we be introduce . we be already review our current response to criminality or threat in the asylum system , include the potential for great use of a range of technique and technology , as well as the exist ability to revoke or refuse asylum . finally , in the face of this increase range of hybrid threat to our national security , the Prime Minister have commit to publish a new national security strategy . the strategy , which be in development , will set out how not just our world - lead police and security and intelligence agency , but the whole of government and society , include business and community , need to respond to these change and complex threat . national security be the first duty of Government , and it be the foundation of our plan for change . the threat we face be more intertwine than ever , and our response need to adapt . together with our international ally , we need to face down the security threat and strengthen the power and capability of the police and security service , who work around the clock to investigate and disrupt those who mean we harm . our agency have the wholehearte support of this government because , in a volatile and uncertain world , their effort could not matter more . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . I join she in pay tribute to counter - terrorism policing and the security service for the work they do daily to keep we safe . let I straightaway put on the record that the opposition support the Government ' s plan to place Iran into the enhance tier of the FIRS regime , and we will also support the move they wish to make to increase proscription power and any other power that be necessary to keep we safe . we will support those measure . the whole House should be in no doubt about the malign influence that Iran spread around the world . it be responsible for support Hamas , who perpetrate the sicken massacre on 7 October 2023 . Iran take western hostage , include Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe , who be hold in squalid condition for year . Iran support the Houthis , who have attack and try to sink civilian merchant shipping in the Red sea as part of their war against the Saudi - back , internationally - recognise Government . in Ukraine we see iranian drone and military equipment use by Putin to murder Ukrainians and furth Russia ' s illegal invasion . of course , Iran also threaten to acquire a nuclear weapon . Iran also persecute its own people . woman be abuse , imprison , and in some case even kill , for not adhere to the behaviour demand by the ayatollah . twenty - two - year - old Mahsa Amini be arrest and kill by the iranian religious police simply for wear what she want , and I be sure every single Member of this House will condemn that atrocity . People who be gay in Iran be persecute and sometimes kill , and those who oppose the iranian regime be brutally oppress and often murder . we should be in no doubt about the threat that the iranian regime pose to its own people and to international peace . the tentacle of the iranian state now stretch on to our very own soil here in the United Kingdom . Iran International TV , an independent tv channel , have to temporarily locate to the US not long ago , because its premise and people here be threaten by iranian agent . iranian dissident on UK soil be threaten and harass . and , as the Home Secretary set out , just two week ago eight iranian national be arrest while planning attack on UK soil . in opposition , the Home Secretary say that she would proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps — she say so a number of time , include from this very Dispatch Box on 15 April last year . the Home Secretary have now be in office for nearly a year , so my first question be this : why have she not yet do what she say she would do by proscribe the irgc ? she say that the iranian ambassador have be summon . that be not an adequate response . why have iranian diplomat , include any suspect of support espionage activity , not be expel ? what further step can be take to develop international sanction against the iranian regime ? the Home Secretary confirm that the three individual charge over the weekend enter the UK illegally , include by small boat . as recently as March this year , just a few week ago — I think it be on 6 March — extremist Abu Wadee enter the UK by small boat . he have previously be picture on social medium wield an AK47 , throw pipe bomb and call for the slaughter of Jews . this be the kind of illegal immigrant who be able to enter the country by small boat . the Home Secretary talk about her new Bill , which we debate a week ago today , but the truth be that it will not make very much difference . confiscate mobile phone from illegal immigrant and slightly enhance power to monitor communication will not stop the crossing . the Border Security Commander have no actual power other than to publish an annual report and set some strategic objective . I do not think people smuggler be go to worry too much about that . what will stop the crossing be a proper deterrent so that all those who arrive — not just some , but all those who arrive — be remove . then , they will not bother to attempt the crossing in the first place . this deterrent approach work in Australia about 10 year ago . the Home Secretary must by now be regret the decision to cancel the Rwanda deterrent before it even start . crossing since she become Home Secretary be up by 30 % year on year , and 2025 so far have be the bad in history . do she finally agree that it be time to follow other country and establish a proper removal deterrent apply to all those who arrive illegally by small boat ? it be time to bring back Rwanda . in their first six month in office , the Government have not return a single iranian to Iran — not one — include iranian criminal . do the Home Secretary agree that it be now time to repeal the Human Rights Act for immigration matter , so that criminal and other dangerous people can be more easily remove from the UK and can no long persuade UK judge to allow they to stay here on ever - more tenuous human right ground ? the only way to protect our border and ensure security be to remove all illegal immigrant as soon as they arrive . I hope she urgently adopt that policy . I just say to the shadow Home Secretary that he be an immigration Minister when the number of small boat crossing soar and when net migration soar . on his watch , control be reduce . under his party , we see return plummet . this Government be clear that the rule need to be respect and enforce . that be why this Government be introduce counter - terrorism - style power to strengthen our border security , something that his party , shockingly , have repeatedly vote against . the right hon . Gentleman still refer to his Rwanda scheme , which cost £ 700 million and , in the two year that it be operational , send four volunteer — just four volunteer — to Rwanda . border security be a part of our national security . frankly , I be sorry that the right hon . Gentleman be not take sufficiently seriously the national security threat that we face . I support the work that his Government do to introduce the National Security Act , but , as he will know , I warn repeatedly that the power be not strong enough , and that we could not use legislation design for terrorism to proscribe state - back organisation . we call on his government repeatedly , if they be unable to proscribe the irgc , to strengthen and amend the power to be able to do so under national security provision . in fact , we even put forward an amendment to the National Security Act in the previous Parliament , and the Conservatives vote against it . I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman now say he will support our measure to strengthen our national security and bring forward strong proscribe power that can be use against all kind of state or state - back organisation that might attempt to do we harm . our national security be the first duty of any Government , which be why this Government will continue to take ever - strong action to pursue issue around criminality and extremist or terrorist , border and national security threat . that be how we keep our community safe . give the wide range of threat that we face from hostile state actor , it be more important than ever that we protect ourselves from state - back cyber - attack and similar threat . can the Home Secretary update we on what be be do to increase the nation ' s resilience and countermeasure against such attack ? my hon . friend be right , because the complex national security threat that we face now take different form and be increasingly intertwine . cyber - threat and the use of technology be increasingly a part of those threat . work on that will form a central part of the new national security strategy that the Prime Minister have announce , which be be develop at the moment , so that we recognise the interplay between these different threat . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . the Liberal Democrats remain extremely grateful to all the extraordinary people from our police , intelligence and security service who continue to put themselves at risk to keep our country safe . we support the action take by the Government so far , and stand ready to support further robust sanction and other action against cowardly regime that seek to destabilise our and other western democracy . we last discuss the threat pose by the iranian regime in this Chamber a couple of week ago . in response to question about the proscribing of the irgc , the Minister for Security , the hon . member for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) , refer to the work undertake by Jonathan Hall KC to review the legislation we have in place , and it be good to hear that that review have be publish today . the Home Secretary mention plan change that will be make and additional power that will be introduce to respond to the legal difficulty in use power design to deal with terrorist group for state and state - back organisation such as the IRGC . could she confirm that these new plan power will finally enable we to proscribe the irgc ? I would be grateful if she could update the House on the timetable she foresee for bring forward those change and , give the difficulty with previous counter - terror law , if she could tell the House whether any of those change will be subject to the appropriate pre - legislative scrutiny . our democracy have face and continue to face systematic threat from hostile foreign state — not just from Iran , but from China and Russia . now that our police and security service have have a chance to use the provision in the National Security Act , could the Home Secretary update the House on any further gap they have find during their work ? we live in a perilous world with war on our continent , and we Liberal Democrats welcome the increase in defence spending . however , the decision to take that money from the official development assistance budget will leave a vacuum in some of the most vulnerable place . we know that China and Russia be seek to fill that void , and Iran will undoubtedly try to do the same . what assessment have the Government make of malign actor use their soft power to influence event overseas and the result threat to our national security ? I thank the hon . member for her comment and her support for the police and the intelligence and security agency . she ask about the irgc . in his report , Jonathan Hall state specifically that , under the exist legal framework , there be significant challenge when it come to try to take restriction or ban action against state - back and state organisation — there be legal challenge to do that — and he refer particularly to the irgc in that context . that be why he set out the need for new power , and we be commit to bring those in . obviously , we will need to follow the process by bring in the new legislation , but I continue to be concern about the irgc . the hon . member be also right to highlight threat from Russia and the different kind of threat and challenge from China . in his report , Jonathan Hall identify other area where power could be strengthen , include stop and search , cordon and post - charge questioning in specific circumstance . we will be look at the detail in order to take forward all the recommendation and the issue that be raise . the charging of iranian national raise alarm question about the extent of iranian state activity in the UK . we know that Tehran use the IRGC to push its influence around the world , include by support attack against jewish people and Israelis around the world . what assessment have the Government make of the threat pose to the british jewish community by iranian operative ? what step be be take to protect the community and eliminate those threat ? my hon . friend be right to mention the importance of security for our jewish community , which should never be compromise either domestically or by any kind of foreign state influence or activity . that be why we work very closely with the Community Security Trust on a range of issue around support and protection for the jewish community across the UK , and why we take immensely seriously any malign iranian influence that be target towards jewish community . the Home Secretary rightly say that the threat from hostile state be complex and intertwine , so will she update the House on what further step the Government have take to protect critical national infrastructure , in particular from cyber - attack ? our security service commit vast expertise in our protection . their success must be hide , but their failure be often pick over . the one thing they really need be additional resource , and I urge the Home Secretary to make the case for that vigorously during the forthcoming spending review . that be the least they deserve from this House . I know that the right hon . Member take these issue immensely seriously when he be in government . I agree with he about the importance of critical national infrastructure and the implication of cyber - attack . I know that he will agree that the critical national infrastructure be change : what be critical now be different from what might have be critical even 10 year ago , let alone 20 or 30 year ago . we need to have the process to be able to adapt swiftly , and that will be consider as part of the national security review . he can be assure that I will always argue strongly for support for our intelligence and security agency . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , in particular on the outcome of the Jonathan Hall review and the step be take to proscribe the irgc . it be very sad that the previous Conservative Government fail to do that in 14 year . while we wait for the legislation , will she reassure the House by reaffirm that anyone in the UK who fail to declare a relationship with the iranian regime be commit a criminal offence ? my hon . friend be right ; that be exactly the reason we have put the irgc on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , alongside the whole of the iranian state . we expect people to abide by that law , and there will be criminal offence if they do not . the Home Secretary may be aware of a visit I make to Iran International just a few week ago , during which it express its appreciation for the fantastic support it have receive from the Metropolitan police and security service . if she have not already do so , will she or the Minister for Security visit Iran International in order to send the message that threat to its journalist and those of the BBC Persian Service be utterly unacceptable , as be threat to their family base in Iran ? I thank the right hon . member for his important question . threat to Iran International , its journalist and their family member be disgraceful and completely unacceptable . he be right to commend the work of counter - terrorism police and the security service in address this issue . we take the safety of anyone on UK soil immensely seriously , and no threat to the safety of any individual , and certainly any organisation or journalist , will ever be acceptable in the UK . I thank the Home Secretary for this important statement , and I thank our security service — the fine in the world — for keep we safe . it be important that we have tool to assess the threat or potential threat pose by those who arrive through irregular mean , such as small boat . can the Home Secretary update the House on progress make to intelligence sharing with our international partner ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . in order to address transnational and international threat , network and challenge — whatever form or route they take — it be immensely important that we strengthen co - operation and work with our international ally . we be already work to strengthen international co - operation and information sharing , but we be look far at what check and security assessment we can do in the UK . the british people will be appal to learn that iranian national who have come across the english channel have be charge with terror offence . they will also be concern that the Home Secretary talk in opposition about proscribe the irgc , but now we have Jonathan Hall KC recommend a delay in proscribe the irgc . surely the right thing to do be proscribe it now and if any more power be require , introduce they through emergency legislation , but we must not kick the can down the road . our border security be national security . that be the approach the Government be take . we will continue to strengthen border security , include by introduce counter - terrorism power . when in opposition I repeatedly call on the previous Government to strengthen the legislation in order to be able to take much strong action on state - back organisation like the irgc . the Jonathan Hall report that be out today identify the legal difficulty and problem with apply legislation that be design for terrorism to state - back threat . it be important that any legislation we apply be actually effective and do not unravel . that be why some year ago , in 2023 , the Labour party put forward proposal to strengthen the legislation and bring in the new strong power that we be talk about for use against organisation that be state - back , such as the irgc . it be because we believe that national security be so important that we be prepared to give the Government , police and security agency the power they need to take action and make sure that something happen in practice . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , and I put on record my thank to those who work day in , day out to keep our street and community safe , and who undertake work and activity that many of we may never hear about . can the Home Secretary assure the House that with this Government the police and security service will always have the power and resource that they need to keep we safe ? my hon . friend be right to talk about the vital work that the police and the security and intelligence service do . it be because we support they so strongly that we be put forward proposal to strengthen the law so that they have the power they need at all stage to keep we safe . we understand that the three individual concern enter the country illegally and then claim asylum . do the Home Secretary agree that this country be particularly attractive to those who wish to claim asylum because it be relatively easy to be successful in that endeavour compare with , for example , France , so it make sense to claim asylum here ? do she attribute any of that to the Human Rights Act ? if so , how do she plan to amend it ? do she have cause for concern that those who be task with make decision be sometimes guilty of overzealous application of the law in respect of asylum ? the three individual that the right hon . Member refer to enter the UK between 2016 and 2022 and be grant asylum . Grant rate for asylum have fall in the last year and return of fail asylum seeker have increase . we be strengthen our border security with counter - terrorism power and strengthen the check around criminality across the immigration and asylum system . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and the Security Minister for his write statement last week on the work of the defend democracy taskforce . as the Home Secretary will be aware , the Joint Committee on Human Rights be conduct an inquiry into transnational repression . I be sure that she will look at our finding carefully . will the state threat joint unit bring a cross - Government approach to the work on transnational repression so that we can tackle this important issue ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the inquiry that his Committee be pursue be important . the Security Minister will give evidence to that inquiry about the work be do on transnational repression , include the work of the defend democracy taskforce . the state threat joint unit be look at a wide range of issue in respect of how we tackle the threat we face across the country . as President Trump seek to negotiate a nuclear deal with Iran , may I ask the Home Secretary , along with senior Ministers across Government , to work with five Eyes partner and the National Security Council and National Security Adviser team in the White House to ensure that any deal be comprehensive — it must not exclude ensure that Iran can not continue to work in proxy form , whether through criminal gang or other state — in order that we do not have sanction lift without further action in the area that she have discuss today ? the right hon . Member make an extremely important point . it be essential that Iran be prevent from develop any further nuclear threat . that be why the US - lead talk be so important ; we support they strongly . he be right that this need to be a comprehensive approach , and we agree with the approach across the five Eyes partner . I associate myself with the praise for our intelligence , police and security service . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement about the combination of international co - operation and robust action at home , as be set out previously by the Security Minister , which be critical when tackle allege act of direct threat to life and property . do the Home Secretary agree that measure such as the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme be really important because we be increasingly see action by organise criminal gang and other group , which be an insidious force in our country , and we must deter other state and organisation from the nefarious action that they be take ? my hon . friend be right . we be increasingly see a pattern where foreign state organisation end up use criminal proxy to pursue malign activity . that be why we have to link up the work around serious and organised crime with work around counter - terrorism and work around state threat . it be about combine the different hybrid threat that we now face , which be why the new national security strategy be so important . the Home Secretary say in her statement : " the iranian regime pose an unacceptable threat to our domestic security , which can not continue . " yet we know that Iranians make up the third - large group of illegal migrant crossing channel , so do the Home Secretary agree that any Iranians cross the channel should be detain and deport and should not be allow to claim asylum ? the system that we inherit from the previous Government — include a government that the hon . Member be at different time a part of — be not strong enough . border security need to be treat as a national security issue , but it have not be for far too long . that be why we be introduce counter - terrorism - style power as part of our border security response . I be really sorry that he and his party repeatedly choose to vote against those counter - terrorism power , because we need those power to be introduce . we be also strengthen the security and criminality check across the asylum and immigration system , because we need to make sure that we be do everything possible to keep our country safe . I welcome the measure that my right hon . friend have announce today . I join she in pay tribute to the security service and thank they for keep we safe . the action of the last few day have underline the profound threat that Iran pose to our country . many of the iranian community in my constituency of Hendon live in fear of transnational repression . could my right hon . friend say more about what the Government be do to protect our iranian community and all those who live in fear of transnational repression , so that they can live their life in freedom in Britain ? my hon . friend be right to say that transnational repression have become a grow threat and challenge , not just from Iran but from other country . the Security Minister provide an update to the House just last week on the further action that we be take , include further support for those who be be target and further advice and guidance for those who face threat . those be the kind of threat that our police and security service be particularly vigilant towards , to ensure that everyone in our country can feel confident that they will be keep safe . can the Home Secretary explain why the british envoy in Tehran be summon by the iranian authority at the weekend ? more importantly , do this not signal a complete disconnect from reality on the part of the iranian state ? the hon . member be right to raise this . we have make extremely clear to the iranian regime our view about the unacceptability of state - back threat on our soil , include through the summoning of the iranian ambassador to the UK and through further measure , not just in the foreign influence registration scheme but those we be now go to take forward in response to Jonathan Hall ' s report . it be immensely important that the iranian regime hear the point that we be raise and that it understand our determination to protect the security of those on UK soil . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement today and for the work that she and her Ministers have do on this really important issue . I also want to put on record my thank and the thank of the people of Harlow for the work that the police and security service do to keep we all safe . do she agree that , as the method of state - back agent change and adapt , we too need to change and adapt ? I be think in particular of what my hon . friend the Member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) say about intelligence gathering , and the Jonathan Hall report will be an important part of that . my hon . friend be right . the Jonathan Hall report identify a series of area where we have long - stand counter - terrorism power that go far than the power we have around state - back threat . that might be something as simple as the power for the police to set up a cordon around the target of a potential terrorist incident , and they should have the same ability to do that for the potential target of a state threat incident . we will be look to take forward those power , but in order to use they most effectively , we also need the good intelligence gathering . we already have the good security and intelligence agency in the world , but they need to be able to work ever more strongly with international partner too . I thank the Secretary of State for her strong and determined word and action — we appreciate they . I offer my thank to the counter - terrorism unit for its work on the case . I know that this be the tip of the iceberg of the work be carry out unseen to keep we all safe across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . the arrest of these three asylum seeker will naturally highlight the failing in the system , and I say that regardless of which party be in power at various time through that journey . what action will the Secretary of State and this Government take regard the influx of young single man claim asylum who seem empower to declare war against this nation that have feed and clothe they for so many year ? how do we assure our british public — my british public — that the end have come to housing these foreign national who hate this nation and all it stand for ? the hon . member be right to pay tribute to the police and the security and intelligence service . he will know more than many in this House the complexity and wide range of different threat that our agency have have to deal with through the year . they continue to need to deal with terrorist threat , from islamist extremism to far - right extremism . they have of course have to deal over many year with Northern Ireland terror threat , and they have to deal with change pattern of state threat , the different form those threat can take and the way in which they interact with criminality . this Government have make it clear that we see border security as part of national security . that be something the Prime Minister say in his speech to interpol before Christmas , and it be why we be strengthen the counter - terrorism - style power we be use and bring forward through this House . we be also strengthen international co - operation . we hold the first ever international summit on organise immigration crime because we see that as a national security issue , too . legal aid agency : Cyber - security Incident with permission , I will make a statement about an incident that have affect the Legal aid Agency — an executive agency of the Ministry of Justice . the House will appreciate that while investigation be ongoing , there be limit to the amount of information that I can share publicly . however , the Government wish to be as transparent as possible with Parliament , and I will provide an update base on the information that we currently have . on Wednesday 23 April , the Legal aid Agency become aware of a cyber - attack on its online digital service . these be the service through which legal aid provider log their work and receive payment from the Government . the Government of course take immediate action to bolster the security of the system , work closely with expert at the National Crime Agency , the Government Cyber Co - ordination Centre and the National Cyber Security Centre . we alert the Information Commissioner and , importantly , inform all legal aid provider that some of their detail have be compromise . we also take some legal aid Agency system offline between 7 and 11 May to carry out work to contain the breach . official have be work around the clock to stabilise the system and support a complex investigation . I can now confirm that the cyber - attack be more extensive than originally think . on Friday 16 May , we learn from the attacker behind it that they have access a large amount of information relate to legal aid applicant , and we assess that threat to be credible . we believe they have access and download a significant amount of personal datum from those who apply for legal aid through our digital service some time since 2010 . that datum may include applicant ' contact detail , address , date of birth , national ID number , criminal history , employment status and financial datum , such as contribution amount , debt and payment . I should stress that this do not mean that every individual involve will be impact in the same way , but we need to act to safeguard the service and its user . in line with advice from the National Cyber Security Centre , the Legal aid Agency take its online service down on Friday . I urge all member of the public who have apply for legal aid since 2010 to be on high alert for any suspicious activity . that include message and phone call from unknown number . if anyone be in any doubt at all , please take step to verify a person ' s identity before provide any information . I understand the gravity of these event . at this stage , we believe that the breach be contain to the Legal aid Agency ' s system ; there be no indication that other part of the justice system have be impact . the Government be commit to make every effort to ensure that the vital operational delivery of legal aid continue . we have put in place contingency plan to ensure that those most in need of legal support can continue to access the help that they need . the House should be in no doubt that the Legal aid Agency have suffer an unacceptable attack on its system at the hand of criminal . sadly , that attack be not altogether surprising ; the vulnerability in the legal aid Agency system have be know for many year . the risk of such an attack be steadily grow during through the previous Government ' s tenure , but they take no meaningful action to fix the system , leave they vulnerable to attack . the previous Government be repeatedly warn about the Legal aid Agency system be old , inflexible and unstable . in 2023 , the Law Society call on the Government to urgently invest in the legal aid Agency digital system , say that the system be " too fragile to cope . " in March 2024 , the Law Society point to the agency ' s " antiquated IT system " as " evidence of the long - term neglect of our justice system " . in short , this data breach be make possible by the long year of neglect and mismanagement of the justice system under the last Conservative Government . they know about the vulnerability of the legal aid Agency digital system , but do not act . by contrast , since take office , this Government have prioritise work to reverse the damage of over a decade of under - investment . that include the allocation of over £ 20 million in extra funding this year to stabilise and transform the legal aid Agency digital service . I be extremely grateful to legal aid provider across the country for their patience and co - operation , and to Ministry of Justice official for their ongoing effort to secure the system . the investigation be live , and the Government will do everything we can to seek justice . recent event have show that every organisation , no matter how big or small , be at risk from this type of criminal behaviour . sadly , the Government be not exempt . this incident have none the less demonstrate in stark term that our legal aid digital system be critically fragile and not fit for the 21st century . when I take up this ministerial role , I be frankly shock to see just how fragile they be . this Government inherit a legal aid sector that have be neglect for far too long . we have invest in stabilise the current digital system and have kick - start an ambitious reform programme to transform they . that mean create a modern , user - friendly and resilient service . the programme will also deliver a more flexible service , so that we can implement change fast , and well respond to change demand . that transformation will take time . in the light of this incredibly serious incident , my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor and I be explore option to expedite the programme and put our system on a more secure footing . the Government will not hesitate to act to protect our vital public service , because without legal aid , our justice system would grind to a halt . this be an ongoing and sensitive issue , and our investigation and mitigate action continue . to ensure that member be inform and update , I will provide a write update in due course . I commend this statement to the House . I call shadow Minister Dr Kieran Mullan . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement , although it be pretty disappointing to hear she deliver it as write . before I have see her statement , I draft one of my own . in it , I be clear that I would limit my party political remark , and think that the Minister would devote a significant part of her statement to condemn the immoral , malicious , criminal actor who be responsible for this attack , I intend to begin with strong word of support for what she say . however , if member listen closely , they would have hear that she devote most of her time to party political attack , and manage barely one sentence of condemnation . I suggest that she look at her statement when she leave the Chamber , and reflect on that . I will say what the Minister should have say to all those worry by what have happen , include those who may be victim of fraud as a result , and taxpayer who will pick up the bill : we should never lose sight of the fact that whatever the role of any Government , past or present , in unsuccessfully defend against such attack , the primary responsibility for this lie with the despicable criminal who carry it out . this be not just an attack on a digital system ; it be an attack on some of the most vulnerable in our society . their datum be deeply personal in some case , give that sensitive medical record have be expose . it be utterly appalling . we welcome the fact that the National Crime Agency and the National Cyber Security Centre be involve , and I hope that the Minister will agree that those behind this breach must be bring to justice . nothing should stand in the way of full accountability for this crime . address the action of those behind the attack be paramount . the Minister may seek to focus blame on a previous government , but I have question about this Government ' s response . first , why be the decision take not to inform the House and the public about the breach when it be first discover on 23 April ? we now learn that the impact may extend to those who make application as far back as 2010 , and that more than 2 million piece of information have be access . the delay of nearly a month in notify the public and / or understand the nature of the attack could have hinder individual from take necessary step to protect themselves from potential harm , such as fraud or harassment . secondly , the Minister mention take system offline that be crucial for legal professional payment . can she provide a clear update on the operational status of those system ? if they be not yet fully functional , what be the estimate timeline for their restoration ? she mention contingency plan ; could she tell we more about their nature ? thirdly , can she share any information about the origin of this attack ? be it believe to be a state - link criminal enterprise ? fourthly , have the Ministry of Justice initiate a thorough risk assessment of its other digital system , and digital system across Government more widely ? she say that the Government believe that the attack be contain , but on what basis have she reach that conclusion ? fifthly , the Minister talk about the £ 20 million set aside for deliver improve system . she will know the challenge that previous government face in attempt to upgrade those system . what specific improvement will be achieve by this funding , and when ? finally , will the Minister give a commitment to full transparency for the House , through regular update as the investigation progress ? she mention seek to make the public more aware of the issue , so that people know if they might be affect . will she ensure that those affect by this breach be directly contact and offer appropriate support ? will she reiterate the Government ' s commitment to ensure that those responsible be bring to justice ? the security of our justice system , public confidence and the wellbeing of vulnerable individual depend on a robust and transparent response to this serious incident . the hon . member be right to say that those responsible for this attack on our justice system be criminal — no ifs , no but . what they have perpetrate on our legal aid system be not only dangerous ; it expose the datum of legal aid provider and applicant . the threat make to the Government be entirely unacceptable and malicious , and the Government will be robust in their response and in pursue justice ; I think I make that clear in my statement . it be important that we be honest and frank about the vulnerability of the legacy IT system that support our legal aid system . the vulnerability of that system expose both legal aid provider and end user — as the hon . Member say , some of the most vulnerable people in our society — to unacceptable risk . I be focus on the short term and eliminate the threat , but also on the long term , on invest in resilience , and on the rescue and transformation of the platform , so that we who be responsible for the legal aid system and our wide justice system do not expose people to that risk again . the hon . Member ask why the House be not inform when Ministers be inform , in late April . the reason for that be simple : when Ministers be first inform about the exposure of the legal aid Agency ' s digital platform to this risk , the full extent of the risk , and the nature and extent of the datum put at risk , be not fully understand . as a Minister , I have compete responsibility . I have a responsibility to keep the legal aid system go — to ensure that those who need to access legal support can do so , and that those provide legal aid to vulnerable client be pay . at that point , give the understand risk , the responsibility to keep the system go outweigh any need to inform the House of the exposure of the system . however , the most important people in the system — the legal aid provider and , by extension , their client — be inform , as be the Information Commissioner , whom we be legally oblige to inform . when the great extent of the risk become know , we promptly and transparently inform the House of the position . that be a transparent and proportionate response to our understanding of the evolve criminal theat . the shadow Minister ask about the restoration of the system . the system have be close down to negate the threat and prevent further exposure of legal aid provider and user . we will not reopen the system until we be satisfied that it be safe to do so . as he will understand , I can not comment far on this live and sensitive situation . however , I can assure he that we have put in place contingency plan to ensure that those who need to apply for legal support in the come day and week , and those who be currently access legal aid , can provide information to the legal aid agency through alternative mean , so that we can keep the show on the road . the shadow Minister ask about wide Government exposure to any risk . as I have mention , regrettably , Government Departments , local authority , university and our well - know business be expose to the sort of criminal activity that the Legal aid Agency have experience , but from what we know , this attack be confine to the Legal aid Agency , and go no wide than that . he ask about our long - term plan . as I have say , our long - term plan involve a significant investment of £ 20 million to stabilise and transform the service . indeed , we know about today ' s threat partly because of the investment that we have make since we come into government . we discover the threat and become alive to the fact that hacker be infiltrate the system partly because of the work that we be do to stabilise and transform the system . that work have to continue . the Lord Chancellor and I will look at whether we can expedite some of that work to bake resilience into the system . the shadow Minister ask about full transparency and keep the House up to date . as I say , I will provide a write update in due course , and today I can undertake to provide full transparency . legal aid provider have be keep fully inform along the way , as have our professional body , such as the Law Society and the Bar Council , many of which be legal aid provider . that be because we need all of they , work in a robust system , to deliver the justice and legal aid that people so sorely need . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the loss of very sensitive datum relate to so many vulnerable people over such a long time make this one of the most serious data breach of recent year . it be also a wake - up call , alert we to the poor state of the legal aid Agency it system , and perhaps Government it system more generally . I appreciate that the Minister have inherit this debacle , but it be on her desk now . will she confirm the number affect , whether the leak have be stem , and what step be be take to recover the datum from the thief who have take it ? I have more question that there be not time to deal with here . she say that she will provide a write statement , but will she also brief the Select Committee and the opposition party , if necessary in confidence , on the step be take to rectify the situation ? I thank my hon . friend for that pertinent question . he will appreciate that it would be inappropriate for I to comment in any great detail while the investigation be ongoing . as he and the rest of the House can imagine , if we be talk about those who have apply for or be in receipt of legal aid since 2010 and all the legal provider in this country that have have legal aid contract with the Government , one get a sense of the scale of the exposure . it be a very serious breach indeed . the malign criminal who be responsible for the hack have give a figure for the amount of datum that they have , which have be trail in some of the newspaper . those who have read the paper will know that it be in the region of 2 million item of datum , so one can see that the scale of the problem be very serious indeed . I should say that that figure can not be verify , and I will not comment in further detail . with respect to my hon . friend ' s request that the JSC and Opposition party be keep up to date as the investigation develop and as we take step to eliminate this risk from our system , I be very happy to give that update . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . hundred of thousand of people across the country , include many in my patch of Eastbourne , will be hugely concerned that their information be in the hand of deplorable criminal whose identity we do not know and whose further intention be unclear , and who should face the full force of the law . the damage be especially profound , because the state ' s inability to steward the public ' s datum undermine people ' s trust in our justice system . More than that , give that legal aid applicant be the victim , the data breach risk disproportionately undermine the trust of some of the most vulnerable people in our society . the previous Government should hang their head in shame for ignore the Law Society ' s 2023 call to address those vulnerability when they have the chance . this government must urgently restore trust , and I have a few question in pursuit of that . first , how will the Minister proactively communicate with all those affect about this breach to provide guidance and support ? secondly , will she consider launch a dedicated advice line , for example , for anyone who be worried about what it mean for they ? thirdly , the legal aid Agency ' s service be take offline last Friday , as the Minister confirm , so how will she ensure that that do not compromise people ' s access to legal aid in the meantime ? finally , will the Government conduct a cyber - security review of all the system they use across their remit to identify and address further vulnerability before they be exploit at the expense of our constituent ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that incident such as this perpetrate by cyber - criminal represent an attack on our justice system and be corrosive of trust . he be also absolutely right that , in so do , they be hit some of the most vulnerable in our society . that anger I , frankly , and the response need to be commensurate to the damage that they have do not just in steal people ' s private datum , but to the wide system in undermine trust . we be take a proactive approach to communicate with people and with the sector . as soon as the risk and the exposure of the system to these hacker be identify , legal aid provider be update on their exposure and tell to take proactive security step . that communication have be update , and , as well as today ' s public statement , we be in constant communication with those legal aid provider . they be really the most important point of contact , because they have a relationship of trust with their client , and they will be invite to pass on the warning and message come from the Government . where we know of particular individual whose datum may have be expose and who may be particularly vulnerable , we be communicate directly with they . I will take away the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion of an advice line , but for now what I have describe will be the most important and effective way of disseminate the warning and keep people up to date as the situation evolve . turn to the wide security threat to Government and other vulnerability , before this attack we have indicate in any event that we would have a new national cyber strategy across Government by the end of the year . obviously , we also intend to introduce the cyber - security and resilience Bill , which aim to improve and strengthen Government cyber - defence and Government response to attack just like this one . all of that be go to be important to improve the resilience not just of the legal aid Agency but of cyber - system right across Government . a recent Public Accounts Committee inquiry find that the Government still have substantial gap in their understanding of how resilient their IT estate be to cyber - attack . it be really helpful to hear from the Minister about the work that be ongoing , but in the light of this very serious incident , will she and all Departments urgently assess the robustness of cyber - defence , not only in arm ' s length body such as the Legal aid Agency but in legacy IT system and the supply chain — which the Committee find to be know area of weakness — to ensure that our cyber - defence in Whitehall be as strong as possible ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . whether in Government , local authority or other body such as university and business big and small — as we know , some of the most famous business in this country have recently be expose to these sort of risk — and whether the cyber - attack come from state actor or from organised crime , as appear to be the case in this instance , legacy IT system be one of the most serious vulnerability . that be precisely what today ' s incident highlight , and it be why that national cyber strategy be go to be so important . it will identify how we build up our resilience at pace and protect against these vulnerability , which be system - wide and affect public and private actor alike . in recent month , the UK have experience a number of very high - profile cyber - attack right across the public and private sector . do the Minister agree that now be the time to update the Computer Misuse Act 1990 to enhance cyber - resilience through strengthen legal protection for cyber - security researcher ? if her answer be yes , which Department be responsible for bring about that change ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the cyber - security and resilience Bill will be introduce in this session . the focus of that Bill be to improve the cyber - defence of this country by bolster regulator support and the regulatory framework and set out how our national security agency can provide a strengthened and embolden response to just such attack . it seem to I that that Bill be the appropriate legislative vehicle for deliver what I think we all wish to see , which be a more robust defence of our cyber - system . I thank the Minister for her statement . what shock I most about this attack be that it be an attack on some of the most vulnerable people in our society . what can be do by resident in Harlow who be concerned that their datum have be take by these criminal , and how can they get legal aid if they need it ? I thank my hon . friend for that very important question . People can do two thing : first , be in touch with their legal aid provider , because that will be the source of the datum sharing and would have be the source of the application for legal aid . secondly , if they be concerned that their datum may have be affect , they can get in touch directly with the Legal aid Agency . legal aid provider have be inform of how those who need to apply for legal aid can continue to do so , because it be vital that we do not allow the justice system to grind to a halt and that those who need emergency legal aid can continue to access it . we have put in place business contingency plan to ensure that no one in this country , whether in Harlow or anywhere else , will be prevent from — or delay in — access legal aid while we work to resolve this issue . the Minister will be aware of the rise number of cyber - attack by criminal and by hostile state actor . may I also express my disappointment that she have choose to try to make party political point on this issue ? instead , can she say whether those responsible be UK - base , such as the DragonForce group or the Scattered Spider group who claim responsibility for the attack on the Co - op and Marks & Spencer ? can she also say whether check be be make across Government to identify any security breach that may not yet have be act on by those who be responsible ? I will not disclose the name of the perpetrator of this malign attack . I do not think it would be responsible for I to do so while the investigation be live and while they be be pursue , not least through legal avenue . I be not able to share that information at the moment , but when I can share it , I will of course update the House . in her zeal to have a pop at the previous Government , the Minister imply that this country be peculiarly vulnerable to cyber - attack . there will be people listen to she out there who may be encourage by that , so will she correct the record and reflect upon the International Telecommunication Union ' s global cyber - security index , which find Britain to be right at the very top of the league table for cyber - security , along with country know to be expert , such as Estonia and Germany ? do she agree that while we must not be complacent , it be important to tell the whole truth ? as I say , those responsible be the baddie here , but let I be clear : I be absolutely shocked when I come into the Department to find the state of the legal aid Agency ' s legacy IT system . they be fragile , vulnerable , at risk and , frankly , not fit for purpose . that be not my view ; that be the view of the Law Society and lot of user . they have to use an arcane system that be not only slow but , as we have now find , be so fragile that it have expose many of its user to an unconscionable risk . that be not good enough . it be not talk down the system ; it be the state of the system . that vulnerability have be expose by these malign actor . the fact be that the previous Government know about it and fail to fix it . we will not make the same mistake . I thank the Minister for her statement . she be absolutely right . I join the Opposition in condemn the criminal who perpetrate this attack . she have already explain what constituent who may be impact should do , and I will not ask she to repeat that , but can she assure this House that the learning from this cyber - attack be already be apply across Government and the public sector ? if extra step be require to access legal aid or process payment by legal aid provider , will the provider be compensate accordingly ? once we have resolve this investigation , once we can be assure that the hacker be no long in the system and that people ' s data be safe and once we can be assure that our legal aid platform be operate properly and be handle people ' s datum in a safe way , there will need to be a stocktake and an effort to learn lesson , not least as we embark — we be already in the process of do this — on stabilise and transform this system so that it be fit for the future . no doubt , there will be lesson from this particular attack for other public and Government body . the question of compensation must wait for another day . my priority be remove the hacker from the system , make sure that they feel the full force of the law and ensure that , in the meantime , no person who need legal aid can not get it and the system continue to operate . recent cyber - attack on retail target have highlight the cost to business and individual of an organisation ' s failure to take cyber - security sufficiently seriously . this attack on the legal aid Agency , result in the theft of million of piece of deeply sensitive personal datum , be perhaps the most egregious yet . why have it take a newspaper article to bring the Minister to the Chamber ? what else be she not tell we ? I be afraid that the hon . Lady have get her chronology the wrong way round . there be a newspaper article because the Ministry of Justice have publish a public statement as soon as it become aware of the full extent of the threat . it do that to protect legal aid provider and their client , the end user . we have be utterly transparent . it be not follow the newspaper article ; the hon . Lady have her fact exactly the wrong way round . I thank the Minister for her detailed answer and reassurance . the legal aid system be an imperative cog in the wheel of justice , and this attack on it must be see as an attack on justice as well . can the Minister say whether the attack encompass legal aid detail from the entirety of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? what discussion have take place with the Justice Minister in Northern Ireland , where people will have justify fear about their address be leak to those who may harm they ? what support be available to those who be now in fear , such as domestic abuse victim ? my understanding be that the entirety of the legal aid Agency ' s system have be expose . we do not know the full extent of that exposure and the theft that have take place , and we will not know until investigation have be complete , but it be for that reason that we have take the precaution of shut the system down . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we will be in contact with all the devolved nation and region to ensure that legal aid provider throughout the United Kingdom be keep inform . he be right : some of the most vulnerable people in society who be in receipt of legal aid will be feel that much more vulnerable today . I deeply regret that , and it be what make I so furious about what have happen . I urge they to be super - vigilant and to be in touch with their provider , and I urge those provider to contact the Legal aid Agency , and contact we , about any particular vulnerability and about case in which they need to continue to provide those client with legal aid . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you may recall that last week Mr Speaker grant an urgent question to my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) to discuss the Government ' s adherence , or otherwise , to paragraph 9 . 1 of the ministerial code . during the proceeding follow the urgent question , I assert that " there be no such duty on Scottish Government Ministers " — — [ Official Report , 14 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 378 . ] I wish to make it clear to the House that my office have since clarify the position for I , and that provision 10 . 1 and 6 . 24 of the Scottish Government ' s ministerial code do confer broadly the same duty on Scottish Government Ministers . I have never mislead the House before , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I be grateful to you for give I this opportunity to correct the record . I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order , and for his promptness in correct the record . mental Health Bill [ Lords ] second reading [ relevant Documents : Third Report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , Legislative Scrutiny : Mental Health Bill , HC 601 ; Report of the Joint Committee on the Draft Mental Health Bill of Session 2022 – 23 , Draft Mental Health Bill 2022 , HC 696 , and the Government response , Session 2023 – 24 , CP 1036 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I want to place on record my thank to Baroness Merron for her leadership of the Bill ' s progress in the House of Lords , and to thank member on both side of that House for their contribution to scrutiny of it . I particularly thank Baroness May of Maidenhead for the constructive way in which she have engage the Government , and for commission Sir Simon wessely to undertake the review of mental health that underpin so much of the Bill . at the general election , Labour stand on a manifesto commitment to modernise the Mental Health Act 1983 , and I be proud to say that we be deliver on that promise in the first session of this Parliament . in do so , we be provide a once - in - a - generation opportunity to profoundly transform the way in which we view and support people with serious mental illness . the measure of a society be how it treat its most vulnerable citizen , and when it come to the treatment of people with serious mental illness , we be fall well short of the humane , compassionate society that we aspire to be . patient live 15 to 20 year less than the average , and they be often accommodate far away from their family and love one . the facility in which they be house can be completely unsuitable . during his investigation last year , Lord Darzi find nearly 20 patient in a mental health facility who be force to share two shower and live among an infestation of rat and cockroach . patient be deny the basic choice and agency that be award to NHS patient with physical illness . People from ethnic minority community , especially black african and caribbean man , be more than three time as likely to be section . although they be very different condition , people with a learn disability and autistic people be often lump in with those who have mental illness , reflect an outdated lack of medical understanding . the Health Secretary will have be brief by the Minister for Care about the tragic murder of Christopher Laskaris , the son of my constituent Fiona Laskaris , and the lack of a voice for parent , who know their own child extremely well , in very difficult situation like this . have the Government consider whether they might table an amendment to make thing like Christopher ' s tragic murder less likely in the future ? I be extremely grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , and I place on record my thank to Fiona for her campaigning work in circumstance that be completely unimaginable for those who have not walk in her shoe and experience the kind of grief that she be experience . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) have be campaign assiduously on this issue ; similarly , we have have representation from the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) , who be in his place , and the right hon . Gentleman . we be carefully consider the argument that have be make , and look at what we can do in this Bill to advance thing in the way that Fiona and other like she would like to see . we will continue that engagement throughout the passage of the Bill , and see if there be a workable way in which we can improve it to ensure that other do not have to go through the unimaginable heartbreak that Fiona be live with every day . my right hon . friend be touch on way to strengthen this Bill even far . he will know that the Joint Committee on Human Rights have just this morning publish our report on the Bill . we have praise it for all that it will do to address a number of inequality , but we have pick out one or two area where it could go even far . I know that he will not yet have have a chance to look at our report , but will he arrange for a meeting with member of the Committee and the relevant Minister to discuss our finding ? I wish I could correct my hon . friend and say that I have already read in detail the feedback from the Joint Committee on Human Rights , but he be right : I have not yet have a chance to do that . however , I can assure he that I and my hon . friend the Minister for Care will look at the Committee ' s report . we would be very happy to meet member of the Committee to discuss in further detail their finding and recommendation . we want to ensure that the Bill be as strong as it can be , give the length of time that have pass since the Mental Health Act be reform . indeed , the Mental Health Act be as old as I be . [ interruption . ] thank you for those intervention . I assure member heap compliment across the Chamber that it will not affect investment decision in their constituency , but I be none the less very grateful . there be a serious point here : whereas attitude to mental health have come on in leap and bound in the past four decade , the law have be freeze in time . as a result , the current legislation fail to give patient adequate dignity , voice and agency in their care , despite the fact that patient have consistently tell we that be treat humanely , and make decision about their own care , play a vital role in their recovery . when patient be detain and treat without any say over what be happen to they , it can have serious consequence for their ongoing health . to quote one of the many patient who bravely share their experience with Sir Simon wessely ' s independent review : " be sectioned be one of the most traumatic experience of my life . sadly , as a result of be sectioned I develop ptsd " — post - traumatic stress disorder — " as the direct result of the way I be treat " . Sir Simon ' s review be publish seven year ago . it shine a light on a group of people who have be hide , ignore and forget . in the time that have pass since , the case for change have only snowball . the Bill now take forward Sir Simon ' s recommendation . the review stress that legislation alone would not fix the system ; culture and resource matter too . this be echo in Lord Darzi ' s investigation into the NHS , which uncover some hard truth : a dramatic rise in the use of restrictive intervention on child ; and 345 , 000 patient wait more than a year for their first appointment with mental health service — more than the entire population of Leicester — of whom 109 , 000 be under the age of 18 . this Bill do not solve every problem in our mental health service , but it mark a vital step in our plan to improve the quality of care , combat long - stand inequality , and bring about a strong focus on prevention and early intervention in mental health . do my right hon . friend agree that while we be see record level of mental health problem in our young people , investment in community service for people with mental health problem must be a priority ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . as he have hear many time from this Dispatch Box , we want to see a shift in the centre of gravity in the NHS out of hospital and into the community as one of the three key shift that will underpin our 10 - year plan for health , which we will be publish in the not - too - distant future . the Mental Health Act be design to keep patient and the public safe , but it be clear to anyone who have see how patient be treat that it do so in an outdated and blunt way that be unfit for the modern age . it be too easy for someone under the Act to lose all sense of agency , right and respect . it be sometimes necessary to detain and treat patient , but there be no reason why patient experience serious mental illness should be deny the choice and agency they would rightly expect in physical care . not only should the health service treat all its patient with dignity and respect anyway , but give people a say over their own care mean that their treatment be more likely to be successful . in the foreword to his independent review , Sir Simon wessely say : " I often hear from those who tell I , look back , that they realise that compulsory treatment be necessary , even life - save , but then go on to say ' why do it need to be give in the way it be ? ' " another patient in the 2018 review say : " I feel a lot of thing be do to I rather than with I " . we need to get this right . we need to give these patient a voice . I commend the Secretary of State for bring this Bill before the House . on all occasion when I have inquire of he , he have be keen to share idea and thought on legislation in relation to Northern Ireland . on mental ill health , deprivation and poverty , the figure for Northern Ireland be some of the high in the United Kingdom , which worry I as the MP with responsibility for my constituent back home in Strangford . I know he will , but will the Secretary of State share all the idea in the Bill with Mike Nesbitt — the Health Minister back home — so that Northern Ireland can also benefit ? I be happy to reaffirm that we have a really strong working relationship with Minister Mike Nesbitt and the Northern Ireland Executive , and we be keen to share insight wherever we can . the hon . Gentleman make a very important point , which refer back to the remark I make about the limitation of the legislation . reform of the statute book be important in term of how the law treat people . but as well as reform the model of care , clinical pathway and look at new treatment , innovation and technology , we also need to focus on prevention , attack the social determinant of ill health , include mental ill health , of which poverty be a key driver of stress , anxiety , depression and bad . that be why the Government will keep such a focus not just in our 10 - year plan for health , but more broadly across public policy . the current legislation have leave many people with a learn disability and many autistic people in mental health hospital , when they could receive much well care elsewhere . around four in 10 people with a learn disability or autism could be care for in the community . the Bill aim to improve the care and treatment people receive when detain , while keep patient and the public safe . through the Bill , we be : strengthen and clarify the criterion for detention and community treatment order to well support clinician in their decision - making ; introduce increase scrutiny and oversight for compulsory detention and treatment ; and provide patient with a clear road to recovery by introduce statutory care and treatment plan for all patient detain under the Act , except if under a very short - term section . do the Secretary of State agree that a proper community treatment plan for those with learn disability and autism be not just reliant on the action of his Department , but a cross - Government effort and an integrate care system at a local level ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be very glad that my Department be work closely with other Departments across a range of issue , in particular with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on the link between employment , welfare and health , and with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education on the reform of special educational need and disability , and the interface between health and education service — I could go on . the point be that a wide range of factor have an impact on people ' s health and wellbeing . indeed , people ' s health and wellbeing can have an impact on a wide range of aspect of their life , which be why we have to work in a mission - drive cross - Government way . I thank the Secretary of State for give way ; he be very kind . I be interested , when he be talk about the impact of mental health on society at large , whether he have give consideration to the Carers Trust proposal , which would amend the Bill so that when a parent have a mental health crisis , check and safeguard be put in place to ensure that any young carer in that family be suitably care for ? I be grateful to the hon . member for that intervention and for raise the very serious issue — an issue of increase prevalence — of the impact of parental mental ill health on child and young people . we be very happy to look at the Carers Trust proposal , and to take representation on that and other issue as the Bill progress through its Commons stage . we want to ensure that we get not just the legal basis of mental health provision in the right place , but practical care . as we think about child and young people ' s mental health and wellbeing , we also need to take into account their parent ' mental health and wellbee through that lens , too . patient ' choice and need will always be take into account , thank to the introduction of a new clinical checklist . it require clinician to involve patient and those close to they in decision affect their care , while retain the power to treat individual compulsorily where absolutely necessary . do the Secretary of State agree that that should be a case of " only when absolutely necessary " ? in my previous role , I provide advocacy for the family of a young man who have be in a state hospital in Scotland for 17 year under a compulsory treatment order . his family live several hour away in north - east Scotland . that is , in my view , a horrendous infringement of his and their human right . will he share any learning from the action the Government be take , which be so welcome , on how community treatment can be place effectively for people who be go through such horrific restriction on their right to family life ? my hon . friend ' s question raise two key issue with the provision of mental health service . first , we must ensure that the bar be set in the right place for compulsory treatment . secondly , we must ensure that both compulsory and voluntary treatment in a hospital setting be within a reasonable distance of family , friend and love one . my hon . friend powerfully describe the impact of such case , where there be not just a deprivation of liberty , but an impact on an entire family . we need to do much well on both side of the border when it come to the appropriate placement of people in mental health setting . there will always be time when patient hit crisis point and lack the ability to express what they want . to ensure that their voice be not lose and that professional be work with patient , the Bill introduce duty to encourage people to make an advance choice document while they be well . this document provide a record of their wish for use by mental health professional , should the patient later experience a crisis that render they incapable of make their own decision . I be 11 year old when my mum first try to take her own life ; she be section several time over the come year , and until I be an adult . how will this new way of treat people and make that part of the community , as well as look after the child of those impact , be measure over time so that we know it be successful ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for share such personal live experience of the issue we be debate this afternoon . I encourage she to take every opportunity to share those experience directly with Ministers or through the passage of this Bill , which other in a similar situation will also have have , so that we can provide the good possible support for people experience a mental health crisis and for their love one , who also experience an enormous amount of pain and anxiety in support someone go through acute mental illness . we be also update the outdated near relative provision to allow patient to choose someone to be their nominated person , which give that individual important power to represent the patient ' s interest when they can not represent themselves . one patient explain : " my mother use to perform this role , but she now have Alzheimer ' s and she lack capacity . under the current system , I can not specify who I wish to serve as my near relative . the responsibility would automatically go to my old sister — a sister I do not get on with " . our reform will ensure that this statutory role be not choose for the patient , but be rather the choice of the patient . advocacy service be often a lifeline for those who find themselves in the vulnerable position of be detain , give a voice to those who may otherwise feel voiceless . patient have report that an advocate can ensure that " their voice and opinion be value and listen to . they come to my meeting , value my opinion and put my view across to other people . People listen to my advocate . " we be also extend advocacy service to patient who come to hospital voluntarily and make change to improve advocacy uptake among those who be detain , as well as work to change the culture of our health and care service so that everyone be listen to and so that patient do not have to rely on an advocacy service to get their voice hear . I be grateful to the youthful Secretary of State for give way . in the past few month , I have have a number of constituent describe the difficulty they have have in transition from care provide by child and adolescent mental health service to adult mental health service — a critical transition . they specifically face difficulty in access the same medication when they turn 18 that they have previously be reliant on as young people . can the Secretary of State describe to I how either the Bill or the change in culture for which he be advocate will improve the situation for people like my constituent ? I be grateful for that intervention . the hon . Gentleman raise what be , frankly , the depressingly familiar issue of the transition from youth and adolescent service to adult service , which apply across such a wide range of public service . it be so frustrating that we be still , in this decade of the 21st century , describe a problem that be prevalent in the ' 90 and noughtie . none the less , we be work to improve not just the law , but the performance in this space . many of the change we will be look to make under the auspex of our 10 - year plan be about well join up of datum , information and patient record , well care planning for patient and designing service around patient so that everyone — whatever their age or stage of treatment — receive join - up service , with clinician have a full picture of that patient ' s experience . hopefully , that will also help to deal with some of the cliff edge and bump in the road that people can often experience when transition from one part of the NHS to another , whether that be from youth and adolescent service to adult service or the interface between primary and secondary care . I welcome this piece of legislation , which I think be generally in a very good place . I have have a tragic situation in my constituency , where somebody who have be admit to hospital in a suicidal state discharge themselves , after which , unfortunately , no follow - up care be provide , and they take their own life . it have be devastating for their family . would the Secretary of State consider look at how the community support people experience a mental health crisis who might have discharge themselves , and how we can keep they safe in future ? I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for that intervention . the Bill deal to an extent with case that would fall under the category she describe , in particular through reform to community treatment order . however , it would not necessarily cover the full extent of the sort of people who might find themselves in that position , which be where I think we can use technology — which be not the answer to every problem in the health service , by the way . however , through well use of datum , patient record and analytic , we will be well able in the future to predict risk and prevent tragedy as in the case the hon . Lady describe , which be a tragedy not just for those whose life be cut needlessly short , but for those who live their life with that intolerable grief and loss for the many year that follow . it be a shameful truth about our society that people with a learn disability or autism be detain , sometimes for year , with little or no therapeutic benefit . the Bill will put an end to that injustice , limit detention so that people with a learn disability and autistic people be no long detain beyond 28 day unless they have a co - occur mental health condition that would benefit from treatment in hospital . this will require the necessary community provision in place to support people with a learn disability or autism , and we be work to set out what strong community service look like and on the resource require to implement they , so that there be robust alternative to hospital care . to help to plug the flow of inappropriate admission to hospital , the Bill place a duty on integrate care board to improve monitoring and support for people with a learn disability or autism who may be at risk of future detention . the Bill will introduce statutory care , education and treatment review to ensure that patient be safe and receive the right care and treatment when detain , and that a plan to discharge they to the community be be work up . we will also remove prison and police cell from the definition of " place of safety " . police cell be for criminal , not patient in desperate need of medical help . throughout the development of these reform , we have maintain the central purpose of the Mental Health Act — to keep individual and the wide public safe . the vast majority of people with mental illness , include severe mental illness , present no risk to themselves or other , and , for the majority of people , treatment can be provide without compulsion . however , there be some people whose illness , when acute , can make they a risk to themselves , and sometimes to other . no one know this well than the family of Ian Coates , Barnaby Webber and Grace o ' Malley - Kumar , the victim of Valdo Calocane ' s violent rampage in Nottingham , whose campaign for justice and accountability have be truly awe - inspire , or indeed the family of Valdo Calocane , with whom I have also spend time , listen to their experience of feeling badly let down by health service . as the independent investigation into the murder find , both he and his victim be fail by the health service , and their family have be leave to live with the consequence with a level of pain the rest of we can scarcely imagine . I would like to place on the record my thank to all four family for meet I as my team and I work on the Bill . thank to the amendment that we be make to the Mental Health Act , decision maker will have to consider the risk of serious harm when make decision to detain . that will ensure that any risk to the public and patient be consider as part of the assessment process . we will also introduce a new requirement for the responsible clinician to consult another person when decide whether to discharge a patient , put in place robust safeguard against the release of potentially dangerous people . finally , as I have say , legislation alone will not fix the wide issue of increase mental health need and long waiting time . to do that , the Government be invest in early intervention to meet patient ' need and prevent they from reach crisis point . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be just come to my conclusion , I be afraid . in the past 10 month , we have meet the mental health investment standard for 2025 - 26 ; invest an extra £ 680 million in mental health service this year , which be a real - term increase ; fund mental health support team in school for almost an extra 1 million pupil ; invest an extra £ 26 million to build new mental health crisis centre ; fund NHS talk therapy for an additional 380 , 000 patient ; and begin recruit the 8 , 500 mental health professional we promise in our manifesto . that be all part of the additional £ 26 billion this Labour Government be invest in health and care service — investment that be oppose by every party on the Opposition Benches ; investment that be happen only because we have a Labour Government . mental health reform be not just about change law ; it be about change life . the action we be take will provide support and care to people at their most vulnerable , modernise our mental health service to keep we all safe , and create a safety net that any of we might need one day . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for bring the Bill before Parliament . the last update to the Mental Health Act , in 2007 , take eight year follow the Richardson review , and this Bill have be a similarly long time in the making , so I welcome the speed with which he have move on it since take office . although we may tussle on occasion , as I have say since the election , we on the conservative Benches will not oppose for the sake of opposition . we will be constructive , work to improve legislation and support the Government where we believe they be do the right thing , and I recognise the Secretary of State ' s constructive approach to the Bill . at the outset , let I join the Secretary of State in pay tribute to the family of Calocane ' s victim in Nottingham for what they have do subsequently — their campaigning , their dedication and their work , include on this legislation — and for the incredible dignity with which they have conduct themselves in unthinkable circumstance . as the Secretary of State mention , the Mental Health Act 1983 — I will not miss the opportunity to allude to his youthfulness — govern the compulsory detention and medical treatment of people with severe mental illness for the safety and protection of themselves and those around they . he also set out that sadly , all too often , those with learn disability or autism have be conflate with that group . we must take this opportunity to address that , and the Bill rightly seek to do so . in the more than 40 year that have follow the 1983 Act , healthcare , treatment and , crucially , our understanding of mental health illness have come on in enormous stride . it be not only important but right that our law be update to reflect the modern world and the knowledge that we have today . we be debate measure that impact those with the most severe mental health issue and their family , but as be highlight in intervention on the Secretary of State , we should not forget the broad context , the challenge pose by mental health issue more broadly , or the importance of continue investment in this space . we should also recognise the many organisation that do amazing work both to educate society about mental ill health and to support people with mental health illness . let I take this opportunity to pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , who have just leave the Chamber , for the work that he do on mental health as Secretary of State . I think it be fair to say that , away from the to and fro of party politic , the current Secretary of State share my right hon . friend ' s passion and determination to address these issue . as he say , we have do much , but I believe we can and must continue to strive to do well . keep legislation up to date be particularly important for a measure such as the Mental Health Act , which give the state the power to deprive people of their liberty in order to protect the safety of the individual and those around they and to carry out treatment . those power should only ever be use when absolutely necessary , and it be therefore right that they be review and update to ensure that they remain relevant , proportionate and appropriate . the most recent update to the Mental Health Act , in 2007 under the last Labour Government , introduce community treatment order and independent mental health advocate and change the detention criterion . since then , as the Secretary of State allude to , trend have emerge that have raise concern . the overall number of detention under the Act have be rise steadily . there be around 52 , 500 record detention in England in 2023 - 24 , include 963 of child age 17 and under . that be a 2 . 5 % increase on the previous year and around 14 % high than in 2016 - 17 . in the same year , 2023 - 24 , black people be 3 . 5 time more likely than white people to be detain under the Act , and seven time more likely to be place on a community treatment order . the reason for that be likely to be complex , and I will return to they later . that be why in 2017 , just 10 year after the previous update , the then Prime Minister , Theresa May — now Baroness May — commission an independent review of how the Mental Health Act be use and how it could be improve . the review consider not only the trend in detention , but wide concern about whether some process be out of step with what should exist in a modern mental health system , include the balance of safeguard , patient choice and patient ' agency in their own care , and the effectiveness of community treatment order . Sir Simon wessely publish the report of his review in 2018 , and I take this opportunity to put on the record again our thank for his important work . hear , hear . the previous Government publish a draft Mental Health Bill base on the recommendation in the report , give other the opportunity to have their say . the draft Bill be subject to pre - legislative scrutiny by a Joint Committee of Parliament , allow member of both Houses to thoroughly review it and make recommendation before the final version be introduce . give the importance of this area of policy , which can have such a profound impact on people ' s life , I believe it be right that we take the time to get this right . the work to update the Mental Health Act start under the previous Government and we have a commitment in our election manifesto to update the law in this area , and that have be carry on by the new Government . we continue to believe that this be the right thing to do , so I put on the record our in - principle support for the Government on the Bill . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) for his work in this space as a shadow Minister . not only do he have professional expertise , but he have bring it to the House ' s deliberation on this legislation . I suspect that we may hear from he a little later . there be many area of the Bill that we welcome , include the strengthening of the patient ' s right to express a treatment preference , the expansion of access to independent mental health advocate , and the removal of police and prison cell as place of safety so that patient can be treat in an appropriate setting . that say , of course we will not stand back without scrutinise and seek constructively to improve the Bill as it pass through the House . part of our role as the opposition be to engage constructively in the scrutiny of legislation — to ask question , to probe far , to seek to prevent unintended consequence , and to identify potential problem and ensure that they be air in Committee — in order to improve it for everyone ' s benefit , and that be what we shall do . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) will approach the Public Bill Committee in that vein . we very much welcome effort to improve patient ' voice and involvement in their own care , include through great use of advance choice document . in its current form , the Bill place a duty on NHS England and integrate care board to make patient aware of their option to have such a document , but this could be as simple as have a poster on a noticeboard , for instance . it do not necessarily require a conversation . introduce it as a legal right for patient who be be treat or for someone who be at risk of detention would mean that they have to be specifically tell about the option , allow they to make a deliberate decision . I suspect that in Committee we may gently press the Minister to go far in strengthen the patient ' s right to have their voice hear . I have be on a number of Bill Committees , and gently hint to the Minister area where we might press far may make his and his official ' live a little easy when amendment be table in Committee . we be pleased that peer pass an amendment to well protect child who require a nominated person , remove the discretion where a court order regard parental responsibility be in place . however , we believe there be more we can do to support and protect child , particularly regard age - appropriate setting for treatment . I hope that when the Minister for Care wind up , or in Committee , he will explore in great detail the step the Government be take to reduce the number of child be treat on adult mental health ward and to ensure that lesson be learn at both national and local service provider level . thirdly , we be conscious that a number of element of the Bill will require additional resource to be put in place . the removal of police and prison cell — sensibly — as place of safety will require sufficient alternative capacity for people to be treat when they be detain . what approach do the Government intend to take in address this ? increase the frequency with which patient can apply to the mental health tribunal to have their detention review and widen automatic referral will potentially increase demand and pressure on the system . we know that the legal system be already under pressure , and the impact assessment acknowledge that there will be impact and cost , so be the Minister confident that the system have the capacity to handle the additional demand ? if not , what step be be take with the Ministry of Justice to address that ? the shadow Secretary of State raise an important point about resource . the update impact assessment estimate that the cost of reform be £ 5 . 3 billion . with the Secretary of State have confirm that mental health spending be fall as a share of NHS expenditure from 9 . 01 % to 8 . 73 % , do the shadow Secretary of State agree that without legislative safeguard to protect mental health funding , the Bill may not achieve the aim it set out to achieve ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight both the cost and the investment that be need , but the cost do not detract from the importance of and need for the measure set out in the legislation . he point out that as a proportion of overall health spending , mental health spending have fall slightly in the late figure . I hope that the Minister in his wind - up will address how the Government will ensure that this legislation , which enjoy broad support across the House , have the resource behind it to deliver the outcome we all wish to see in practice ? will the right hon . member give way ? I will regret do so , but of course I give way to the Secretary of State . I should point out for the record that mental health spending have increase in real term this year , thank to the decision the Government have take . as a proportion of spend on health service overall , it be true to say that it have decrease by 0 . 07 % , but that do not take into account the fact that as well as invest heavily in our elective backlog and in clear waiting list , we be invest in general practice , which will benefit enormously people with mental ill health . the Secretary of State be kind than he normally be , and I be grateful to he for acknowledge the reduction in the proportion of mental health spending — it be slight , but it be none the less a reduction . I hear what he say more broadly , but I hope that he and the Minister will reiterate their commitment to ensure that the legislation succeed , which we all wish for , and that the pressure it may place on part of the system will be address and not simply be absorb within the system . I suspect that the Minister will come to that in his concluding remark . while it be the right principle to direct more mental health patient away from in - patient hospital setting and to community treatment setting where clinically appropriate — this be key , and go to the Secretary of State ' s point — we must ensure that the NHS have the capacity to provide community treatment when the Bill be on the statute book . the Government accept that the reform will take a number of year to implement , give the need to recruit and train more clinical and judicial staff , but what be the plan and how much will it cost ? will it be phase in over a number of year ? the NHS workforce plan will nearly double the number of mental health nurse by 2031 - 32 , but the Secretary of State have say that he intend to update the plan . it would be helpful if , during the Bill ' s passage , he or the Minister could tell either the Bill Committee or this Chamber what the change that he envisage make through this legislation will mean for the workforce . we recognise the significance of the provision limit the detention of patient with a learn disability or autism . under the Bill , they can be detain for treatment only if they have a co - occur mental health condition that require hospital treatment and meet the criterion in the Mental Health Act 1983 . autism alone would no long justify continued detention under the 1983 Act ; in theory , this will ensure that those with autism receive the appropriate support in the right setting , as we would all wish . what step be be take to ensure that there be sufficient service , with sufficient capacity , to properly support people with autism and learning disability ? can he confirm that under this legislation , there will always be a central role for professional clinical judgment on these matter ? this debate in part follow on from concern be raise about racial disparity in the application of the Mental Health Act . can the Secretary of State or the Minister provide more evidence to help the House well understand this issue ? what research have be undertake , or be be plan , to enable we to understand what be behind the statistic ? we welcome this important opportunity to look again at how we treat and protect people with the most severe mental illness , and to ensure that our law remain relevant and proportionate in the modern world , empower people and treat they humanely . update the Mental Health Act be the right thing to do , and we will work constructively with the Government to improve the safety , treatment , agency and , crucially , dignity of mental health patient who be detain , and of the wide public . I add my thank to the Secretary of State and his whole ministerial team for bring forward this crucial legislation so early in this government , alongside other positive measure to fix our NHS . it be Labour that build the NHS and save it in 1997 , and here he be with his team , fix our crucial NHS . I serve a community , in Bermondsey and Old Southwark , with a high prevalence of mental health condition and psychosis . we be fortunate to have South London and Maudsley NHS foundation trust on our doorstep . this legislation will be crucial for the service professional work on the frontline , as well as all those who need support . my borough of Southwark have additional help , fund by Southwark ' s Labour council and our integrate care board , include direct access to help through online system , and a drop - in hub for young people — a means of support that allow they to avoid GP wait time and delay in access help . I be glad that this legislation adopt a similar principle of ensure early access to help , but despite the additional support in Southwark , as the local MP , I see the impact that poor mental health have on people ' s life , which be blight by ill health and discrimination . I be acutely aware that just 5 % of people with schizophrenia be in employment , for example . this Bill offer a chance to tackle some of the issue , but it be overdue . I look forward to work with local organisation and people with direct experience , include trade union in mental health service , carer , Blackfriars Settlement , food bank , and the drop - in club that support people with mental health condition throughout Southwark , which be do fantastic work , often on a shoe - string budget . as the constituency MP , I also see the impact on whole neighbourhood if someone ' s ill health cause they to behave erratically , and sometimes antisocially — noise and drug be often interrelate issue . there can also be police involvement , follow cuckoo by criminal who take advantage of vulnerable people . I hope that the Bill will challenge that grow phenomenon . it would be good to hear from the Minister whether community — include landlord and neighbour , where appropriate — can trigger intervention to support people in crisis . just two week ago , I join a ride - along with the police 999 response team . some might say that it be not the first time I have help the police with their inquiry . on that ride - along , which be my third with the local police , I see again the consistent and sad overlap between what they be deal with and mental health crisis . I end my shift with those police officer at King ' s College hospital , try to seek support for one ill man . I hope that the Government will retain the extension of section 135 and 136 power , deliver in a Lords amendment . that would ensure that there be train and qualified support , which would reduce the time that police lose . the amendment would save thousand of hour a week of officer ' time in London alone , and police could be redirect to area where they be more need . go back far , in the run - up to the introduction of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 , I be work at the Disability Rights Commission , and I recall that mental health organisation be almost envious of that legislation , give the need to reform the Mental Health Act . they wonder when access to advocacy and patient - centre treatment would be deliver for people with mental health condition . it be sad that there have be miss decade in between , but I be glad that this Bill be before we today . the advance choice document be a step towards a return to the great choice and control lose in recent year , as service decline under the last government . the use of nominated person , as outline by the Secretary of State , also offer a great step forward , as do access to extended use of independent mental health advocate for those in hospital . that should be automatic , as Mind have advocate . it be great that the legislation be base on the wessely independent review and the principle underpin it . on a more personal level , and go back even far , the reason I become more aware of politic be my mum ' s diagnosis of schizophrenia in the early ' 80 — at roughly the time when the Secretary of State be bear . then , Rethink be still call the National Schizophrenia Fellowship . Mum have be through the mill in the decade in between . I will not suggest that she have be detain more time than I have have hot dinner — hon . member can see by my waistline that that be not true — but the fact that the Mental Health Act have not be update since then be appal . when I join the Labour party in the early ' 90 , I never dream that I could play a part in improve legislation as an MP . I want to flag a couple of concern , base on family experience . recently , Mum tell we that she believe she work at a bank . that be news to we in the family — no doubt , it be news to the bank — as she be 75 and have not have to work for some time . I can laugh about it , but it be upsetting that she be unwell ; it be frustrating that the system be mad ; and try to access support for she be madden for we as a family . her GP deny that she be unwell and refuse to see she . the last time this happen , she be sectioned for six week until she be back in rude health — and believe I , she be very rude when she come out . South London and Maudsley NHS foundation trust estimate that it cost £ 3 , 000 a week to keep someone in hospital until they recover . NHS England have put a figure of £ 20 , 000 on detain someone with schizophrenia until they be well . those cost be avoidable if GPs act fast . will the Bill result in well trigger point ? this be not about artificial intelligence ; it be about use known datum in the system , so that there be access to supportive intervention that help individual who have a mental health condition ; help their family avoid the pain and suffering that they share when an individual be unwell ; save a community the misery of associate antisocial behaviour or other problem ; potentially save the police a fortune , as a result of their no long have to accompany people to hospital for treatment , where that can be avoid ; and , of course , save the NHS thousand in avoidable hospitalisation and in - patient treatment . GPs can be part of the solution , but too often , they pass the buck and avoid the issue , as the Gardenia surgery in Luton do , pretend that everything be okay , despite prescription be uncollected , which lead to the inevitability of mental ill health rise fast . I hope that the Bill will lead to well community care , as the Secretary of State have outline , but I also hope that GPs and pharmacist will be support in trigger outreach work from mental health trust when someone do not collect their repeat prescription , for example . I hope that it will be confirm clearly that this will be in the legislation , or that the Government will indicate a willingness to accept an amendment along those line . my final , link point be that the Bill should come with Government target for reduce readmission and section . if the Bill be successful , people will not be discharge and readmitte in quick succession , and patient know to the system will not require routine , cyclical readmission . with the right support , the dysfunctional system can be replace . that will have huge benefit for people ' s mental health , and will mean huge saving for the NHS . there be , I think , 52 , 000 detention last year . I hope that the Government will set out how that figure will fall . I really look forward to support the Bill ' s progression . the Bill will be transformative for the people I serve in my community , and the people I love in my family . it will be transformative for million of people across the country — people with mental health condition , their family , carer and service professional — and , if it be do right , it will save the NHS a fortune , too . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for introduce this really important Bill , and the Minister for his proactive engagement with we early this week . before I enter Parliament , I be a trustee of the veterinary mental health charity Vetlife , which care for the mental health of the veterinary profession — I have have to clarify before that it be not a mental health charity for animal with mental health issue . I become a trustee of the charity because my really close friend Sarah , at the age of just 31 , when she have her whole life and career ahead of she , take her own life ; I take her place as a trustee . get the news that I have lose she be one of the most painful experience of my life . many hon . member in the Chamber will have suffer similar experience with their friend and love one . I speak about Sarah because while we be in this place , we rightly often discuss mental health issue use statistic — we talk about waiting time , workforce shortage and the economic impact — but we must never forget that there be individual life behind the number , and nearly every person in the country be affect in some way . that might be through their own struggle or those of a love one , or through grief after someone they care about have lose their battle with depression . to return briefly to statistic , veterinary medicine — the profession I come from — have a suicide rate four time the national average . it be a small profession where everyone know everyone , and everyone have lose a friend or a colleague to suicide . I share that not just for awareness , but because it remind we that certain group be at much high risk — they be more vulnerable than other — and we should do much more to identify and support they . my hon . friend , as a veterinarian , will know that farmer also suffer with significant mental health issue . my constituent be under immense pressure follow the family farm tax and the sudden closure of the sustainable farming incentive . alongside that , they work extremely long hour , and the unpredictability of farm work mean that it be more difficult for they to access mental health support and doctor ' appointment . do he agree that we should introduce regular mental health mot check at key point in people ' s life — when they be most vulnerable to mental ill health — particularly for those in rural area where there be barrier to access support ? my hon . friend will not be surprised that I agree with she ; she may as well have read the next bit of my speech . she be completely right . farmer , those work in agriculture , military veteran and their family , mother in the first year after childbirth , people live in poverty and the LGBTQ + community be just a few of the group that we know be at heighten risk . we already take a proactive approach when it come to physical health ; we have target cancer screening for at - risk demographic . we should take the same approach to mental health . that be why the Liberal Democrats have long call for properly resource community mental health hub , which could reach people before they reach crisis point . we be also call , as my hon . friend just do , for regular mental health check - up at key life stage — for example , when someone have just give birth or just be discharge from the Army . my hon . friend be outline the treatment option for patient . new medicine be also incredibly important , and groundbreake research be happen at the Warneford hospital in Oxfordshire , a mental health hospital that be in desperate need of investment . treatment option and new medicine go hand in hand , so do he agree that the Government should get behind the Warneford and invest in it ? I agree with my hon . friend and thank he for his intervention . mental health mot could help to catch at - risk people early , so that we can start treat they before the problem develop far . I be sure that for all member present mental health issue be among the top area in our email inboxe and our correspondence . we receive email from desperate parent of young people who be leave on waiting list for year throughout their schooling , and from adult fall between the crack of an overstretched system . we should probably acknowledge that these be not anomaly . they be the symptom of a system that be under immense strain . this long - await Mental Health Bill be a very welcome step , but it can not be the only step , because at the heart of our approach must be the simple principle that prevention be well than cure . I absolutely support the idea that we need to invest in prevention — I be 100 % behind that — but I have also speak to many constituent who have issue with emergency health care . one of my constituent , Ed , sadly take his own life . he go into a & E undergo a psychotic episode and be leave simply with a phone number and no assessment . hour later , he be lose . we need to ensure that those who need emergency treatment get it on the spot , as well as invest in prevention . do my hon . friend agree with that principle ? I totally agree , and I will come on to the care of people once they have be discharge after an acute mental health episode , because it be a hugely emotive and problematic situation . we need a comprehensive mental health strategy that see mental health not just as a clinical issue but , as the Secretary of State say , something that need to run through housing , education , employment and justice . good clinical service be vital , but we can not medicate or refer our way out of a mental health crisis . many mental health issue be often root in deep challenge include poverty , housing , insecurity , loneliness , debt and trauma . these be not medical problem , but they put people at huge risk of develop mental health issue , and if we be serious about prevention we must tackle these root cause head - on . the Bill focus very much on the right and treatment of people once they be admit to mental health unit , which be essential , but what be just as important — as my hon . friend the Member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) have just highlight — be what happen when they be discharge and what support they get in the community to prevent a relapse . in Winchester , we have see a brilliant initiative between local NHS mental health team and Citizens Advice . team from Citizens Advice be in a mental health unit call Melbury Lodge , and they help mental health patient with all their life admin — the bill , the correspondence — so that they be not discharge back into the community only to come home to a load of outstanding credit card bill and demand to repay their personal independence payment , for example . what be remarkable be that every pound spend on that initiative save £ 14 . 08 in cost avoidance for the NHS through short in - patient stay , few readmission , well engagement of service once they be discharge and a reduction in medication use . this be a win - win for staff , patient and the taxpayer , but it be a pilot project and there be no funding secure for it to continue , despite the prove cost - save benefit . we urge the Government to look seriously at roll out such initiative nationwide . my hon . friend the Member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) have be passionately campaign since enter this House to ensure that family have a great input into medical decision when there be question over the mental capacity of vulnerable patient , and I invite he to make an intervention now . I thank my hon . friend . as he know , in my maiden speech eight month ago I pledge that Fiona Laskaris would succeed in change the law that have prevent she from save her autistic son , Christopher , from murder . Fiona be here today . despite plead for year , she be never able to obtain a mental capacity assessment for her son . as we hear from the Secretary of State , the Government be now seriously look at an amendment that would both honour Christopher ' s legacy and save life . do my hon . friend support that amendment ? I thank my hon . friend for that moving intervention and offer my condolence to those in the Gallery . we appreciate that the Secretary of State be seriously consider an amendment that might help save life . early intervention can not just be a slogan ; it have to be the foundation of a functional system . last week , I sit around a campfire with the amazing team at the Winchester youth counselling service . that charity have a nature therapy programme in which 11 to 16 - year - old can go camping , have walk - and - talk therapy and do bushcraft and outdoor cooking . while we be toast our marshmallow , the team be talk about the free , confidential mental health support that they offer , provide service such as one - to - one counselling and a weekly wellbee walk - in session . by immerse young people in nature , this programme help to reduce stress and anxiety and foster emotional wellbeing and resilience . crucially , the service be accessible without the need for a doctor ' s referral or diagnosis . young people can self - refer , ensure that support be available promptly when it be need most . this be why Liberal Democrats have be call for mental health hub for young people in every community . we support the Government ' s campaign for a mental health professional in every primary and secondary school — not just an occasional visit or a pilot scheme , but a permanent fund presence . just to follow up on my hon . friend ' s point about the importance of mental health hub , in West Dorset the only child and adolescent mental health service centre be in Dorchester , and for many people in my constituency , especially young people , that mean at least a 30 - mile round trip to access service . in rural Britain , we be lucky if transport link exist , and those that do be often limited . that make access service nearly impossible , which be what make hub so important . I totally recognise the importance of that intervention . we also need a system that be much easy to navigate . a psychiatrist come to see I in my office in Winchester and tell I that his son have be refer to CAMHS . he say that despite the fact that he and his wife work in the medical profession , they have really struggle to access the help that they need . he say : " if we can ' t navigate the system , what chance do anyone else have ? " that be one reason that Liberal Democrats be call for a mental health commissioner : someone to champion family , cut through bureaucracy and help people to get the support they need before thing get bad . the system need to be simplify , both for the parent and family who be try to access the service and to allow the system itself to function . for year , Liberal Democrats have campaign for mental health to be treat equally with physical health , and we welcome the commitment to parity in the King ' s Speech , but it must be back by action . the Darzi report show that mental health account for around 20 % of the NHS case burden — as the Secretary of State acknowledge — yet it receive just under 10 % of the funding . for this reason , we want to ensure that the mental health investment standard be maintain and strengthen , and not quietly scrap or water down . the Secretary of State also highlight the scale of this challenge . around 1 million people be on waiting list for mental health service , but importantly , 340 , 000 child be on mental health waiting list and some of they be wait an average of 15 month for care , which be a huge chunk of their educational time and personal development . this be not a crisis that be wait to happen ; it be a crisis that be already here . in this economic crisis , some people ask how can we afford to invest in mental health , but the real question be how can we afford not to do so , because we already pay the price in lose productivity , emergency call - out , a & E admission and — most tragically of all — life cut short . we must spend to save . the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) speak about spend time with police . I have do the same thing — a fascinating and informative exercise . I encourage everyone to go on patrol with their police . in Winchester , the police say they spend up to 40 % of their time respond to mental health - relate incident . we know that patient turn up to A & E in mental health crisis , many already on a mental health waiting list . I hear that the average amount of time someone spend in a mental health crisis in Winchester ' s A & E , often need individual supervision , be 18 hour . that be not sustainable , because we be use the most expensive part of our health system to do the work that should be happen early , which would be more cost effective for the taxpayer and provide well outcome for patient . finally , I pay tribute to all those on the frontline : the nurse , counsellor , psychiatrist , doctor , therapist , support staff and charity who prop up a system that should be support they . we very much look forward to work constructively with the Government to improve the Bill , and we support it . we will keep push until we live in a country where mental health get the same attention and care as physical health . one of the reason I stand for Parliament be to work hard to create a society that value disabled people , that treat we with dignity and respect , and that ensure there be nothing about we without we . it be right that this Government will fix the broken system to ensure that we give mental health the same attention as physical health . I be pleased to see the four key principle from the independent review of the Mental Health Act at the heart of the Bill : choice and autonomy , least restriction , the principle of therapeutic benefit and , most importantly , treat people as individual . after 14 year of a Conservative Government , over 2 , 000 autistic people and people with a learn disability be in mental health hospital in England . some 92 % of those people be detain under the Mental Health Act 1983 , and the average length of stay for in - patient be almost five year . this be a human right scandal , as the Joint Committee on Human Rights conclude in 2019 . the current situation be simply wrong . autism and learning disability be not mental health condition , and yet under the current Mental Health Act , autistic people and people with a learn disability can be detain in mental health hospital indefinitely . in my 15 - year career work with autistic people and those with learn disability , along with autism organisation up and down the country , include the National Autistic Society and the Autism Alliance , I have see the tragedy of autistic people cycle through the mental health system because of those measure and the failure of public service to provide adequate social care on discharge from hospital order . as an MP , I know from my constituency that too many people be still be detain who could be support to live well in our community by organisation such as Greave House Farm Trust and Action for Autism Barnsley which be on my doorstep . the most significant change in the Bill be the removal of autism and learning disability from the definition of mental disorder under section 3 of the exist Act . this vital change mean that autistic people and people with a learn disability can not be detain for treatment unless they have a co - occur mental health condition that require in - patient mental health care . the Government have say that " the propose change to the detention criterion for people with a learn disability and autistic people will only be switch on when system be able to demonstrate a sufficient level of community support " . it be crucial for that to happen quickly , through the Government work closely with autistic people and those with a learn disability , as well with as advocacy group , to publish a plan to build sufficient support in our community up and down the country . my book on the treatment of autistic people in the criminal justice system demonstrate that ensure that there be an appropriate level of service in the community be essential in prevent the need of autistic people and people with a learn disability from become too complex , lead to admission to mental health hospital . it also demonstrate the need to support safe discharge out of hospital . critical to reduce the number of those currently detain in hospital under the current law be care , education and treatment review for adult and child who be autistic or have a learn disability , which will help speed up discharge , prevent admission and ensure that the person be be give appropriate care . I be delighted that the Bill will make those review statutory in in - patient setting . the responsible commissioner , clinician , integrate care board and local authority must have regard to the recommendation arise from they . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on autism , I be aware that recommendation be often not follow in an expeditious manner . therefore , there be an opportunity to strengthen the duty on responsible party to follow recommendation from those review . the Health Secretary have be move mountain to work on our 10 - year plan . I therefore hope that the Bill ' s 10 - year implementation period for the change to detention criterion will align with his important work . he be also do an incredible job to move to a prevention - lead health system , and that provide an opportunity for an integrated approach to community support , include work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure there be adequate housing in every integrate care system . the exclusion and marginalisation of autistic people and those with learn disability through their institutionalisation in hospital perpetuate their exclusion from our society . I be proud that our Government be tackle these issue so early on in this Parliament , alongside their commitment to the mental health investment standard , the recruitment of 8 , 500 mental health worker , and work to deliver a long - term plan for the reform of adult social care . society be an order of equality and non - discrimination . it be all the rich where autistic people and people with learning disability be include within it to fulfil their potential . I commend this Bill to the House . I rise to speak in support of the Bill . to begin with , I need to make a couple of declaration . I have a family member who be a consultant psychiatrist . I be now a non - practise general adult psychiatrist with an endorsement and year in psychiatry , and I previously work as a consultant psychiatrist . I take part in the 2018 Wessely review as a panel member on the tribunal working group , and I be on the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee in the last Parliament . in a declaration of a more personal nature , this be an area that I feel passionately about . it be a great privilege to speak to this important piece of legislation and reform go forward . the United Kingdom reform its mental health legislation every 20 year or so . I do not want to correct the Secretary of State , but the first Mental Health Act be in 1959 — I hope that be substantially before he be bear , with reference to his early comment . the legislation have go through various iteration from the original Lunacy Act and similar legislation in the 19th century . in the UK , we have always be at the forefront of reform to the law and to provision and power in this area . it be important in this second Reading debate to focus on what the Mental Health Act be and what it do . member have talk more broadly about the challenge of deliver mental health care currently , but it be important to reflect that the Mental Health Act be very specific and precise . it be about the regulation of detention — sometimes for assessment , sometimes for treatment — of people with mental disorder , and have a range of power on aftercare and guardianship . it be focus on detention and assessment , or treatment , of people with mental disorder . we need that because there be time when people with severe mental illness become so unwell that they be unable to recognise their illness . their illness put their health at risk — predominantly through self - neglect or non - treatment . it put their safety at risk , again through self - neglect , as well as through suicide . and , less commonly but critically , it put they at risk of cause harm to other . the legal framework allow we to regulate compulsory treatment in that regard . it be absolutely critical that we have those power so that , when people be so unwell that they do not recognise it and they lose agency , we can , as a compassionate society , take they into hospital and treat they , with a view to get they back to themselves . I have use the 1983 Act countless time , apply it both to assessment and , as a section 12 - approve doctor , to treatment , and I have use it as a responsible clinician . I suspect that I be one of the few member of this House — certainly in this debate — who have have those role and responsibility . in term of frame , it be important to reflect that one of the key change in the 1983 Act , which be such an important piece of legislation , be that it be about restrict power and ensure that there be strong procedure for review detention . as a former health professional in this area , I be certain that all professional work in it be mindful of the scope of power that the Act provide . when apply restriction , people do not use these power in anger or without a great degree of thought and contemplation . the most intrusive intervention available to we in the health service be to detain and treat people in hospital or in secure hospital setting . those power be not take lightly . a lot of concern be express at the start of the debate — and I be sure it will continue — about the way in which people have be treat in hospital . there have be some very high - profile scandal in which thing have not work well , to say the least , and care and treatment have be atrocious and abusive . however , people work in health and care in the UK be do so because they want to see the good outcome for their patient . sometimes , they be limit in that because of the resource available . they do not use the Mental Health Act with a view to harm people , but with a view to help they . be detain under the Mental Health Act be not a prime facie harm ; it be a treatment and a good thing . if someone need to be detain and treat in hospital , they need to be detain and treat in hospital . if I become so unwell that I need to be detain under the Act , I would want to be detain . thankfully , I be not in that position today — [ interruption . ] at least I believe that I be not , although the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , might have a different view on that . [ laughter . ] should I get to the point where I be so unwell that I can not consider my own care , I would want the power of the Mental Health Act to be use quickly , particularly if I be pose a risk to myself , my family and other , so that I can get well and back to live my life . I pay tribute to Baroness May of Maidenhead , who kick this off , and to Professor Sir Simon wessely — a good friend — Stephen Gilbert , Sir Mark Hedley and Rabbi Baroness Neuberger for their work in the 2018 review . there be a lot of good work in the Bill , from the great focus on advance care planning and the more frequent detention review , which I recognise may bring a workforce burden , to the provision on nominate person . I will not go into the detail in this second read speech , but I will focus on a few general point on which I think a bit more work need to be undertake . in some way — I will have to message Sir Simon after this to ask his forgiveness — the Bill be a miss opportunity in that we have be not move towards fusion law . for the benefit of those who be not all over the detail , at the moment the UK have two piece of legislation regulate how to treat people in the absence of consent . the Mental Capacity Act 2005 come about from case law in the ' 80 and ' 90 and be codify in 2005 . that Act broadly regulate physical health treatment for people who lack the capacity to consent — we have focus quite a lot on capacity in the recent debate on the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill . the principle of the 2005 Act be autonomy and the functional capacity and good interest test for people who lack capacity , mean that we test someone ' s capacity , and only if they lack capacity can we intervene in their good interest , sometimes by use deprivation of liberty . the Mental Health Act arise from a very different pathway . in its first day , it be more about the regulation of asylum . the Act be about status and risk . the gatekeeper condition for the current Mental Health Act be that a patient have a mental disorder of a nature and a degree that require assessment in hospital because of the risk to their health and to the safety of other . capacity do not feature whatsoever . we have two piece of legislation . one apply to the most severe mental disorder and deal with status and risk , and the other deal with autonomy and good interest . I strongly believe that the two need to be merge . we should use capacity and good interest framework to regulate treatment of mental disorder in the absence of consent — there be way of do that . I like the fact that we be start to incorporate a bit more in the Bill . do the hon . Member not think that the deprivation of liberty safeguard , which , unlike the Mental Health Act , help to hold those who lack capacity in an environment that be not secure or lock , such as a hospital , be useful , and that bring the two provision together be unnecessary ? the hon . member be of course very knowledgeable give his background as a mental health nurse . I would like to see in the Bill a provision set out that , in order to detain someone for the purpose of health or safety , they must lack decision - make capacity for the detention to be authorise . for the prevention of harm to other , there be reason to overcome autonomy in decision - make capacity , but I would like to see an additional component specify that if the detention for assessment and treatment in hospital be purely base on health and safety and not on risk of harm to other , the patient must also lack capacity . otherwise , people who have full and intact decision - make capacity can nevertheless come into the scope of the power . the liberty protection safeguard be a bit of a mess , quite frankly , and the DoLS be clearly a substantial mess . it be interesting that the legislative scrutiny of the Bill point out that it be a miss opportunity not to tidy up some of the interface between the Mental Health Act and the Mental Capacity Act — a point that I will come to a little later in my speech . in term of parity of esteem , bring forward fusion law and gel the act close together need to be the direction of travel . I hope that we do not have to waste another 20 year until we get the opportunity something like that . there be something else that we need to reflect on . it come to my other point about the focus in the Bill , but I will reiterate it . the core focus of the Bill be on reduce detention of people from black and minority ethnic group , who be over - represent in detention . one of the key focus in fix that must be on socioeconomic deprivation — where we see socioeconomic deprivation , we see severe mental disorder follow — but I worry that the Bill be a miss opportunity and will not do what be require to deal with those disparity . there be three problem with the Bill , and two thing that I wish to flag . I be sensitive to the concern that have be raise about people with autistic spectrum disorder and learn disability , and the advocacy regard such people be in hospital . be in a general adult ward be a challenging environment as it be , and it be particularly challenge for someone with an ASD or a learn disability . People can get stick in hospital not really go anywhere . that concern apply to most disorder — I do not think it be unique , give the lack of community support service . I disagree , however , with the focus on ASD and LD above all other condition . if we want to talk about non - progressive condition , I do not understand why a brain injury , or Korsakoff ' s dementia for example , be not within the scope of this measure . I do not understand why , rather than use the Bill to take people out of section 3 of the Mental Health Act , something like a bolster treatability test be not use , which be what be in the Act before it be modify in 2007 . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who have bring his wealth of experience to this place . would he concede that the focus on learn disability and autism be perhaps because those disorder have very specific feature ? be in an unfamiliar , over - sensory stimulating or noisy environment , with a break from routine , have an adverse effect on some people precisely because of the nature of their disability , and perhaps more so than for some of the other condition he have mention . indeed , it seem something of a weird anomaly that learn disability and autism be class as mental illness for the sake of the Mental Health Act . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will agree they very much be not . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . sensory over - stimulation can be a particular issue for those with autistic spectrum disorder . I have be concern when I have look after patient , and I have think carefully about the challenge , particularly in general adult ward , of cater to the need of people with autistic spectrum disorder or a learn disability . I would argue that that would apply broadly to anyone in a general adult hospital , irrespective of diagnosis — everyone have particular need and sensitivity and we need to be mindful of that . I suspect this be something that the hon . Lady and I will disagree on , but I would consider an autistic spectrum disorder and a learn disability to be a mental disorder . it certainly be under the ICD - 10 classification of mental and behavioural disorder . one problem with how this issue be frame in the Bill be , for example , where Rett disorder , which be also a pervasive developmental disorder , would come into it . do it come under the term " autistic " ? where do a not otherwise specify pervasive developmental disorder come into it ? I be not sure whether how the term in the Bill will operate in real life have be think through . I do not understand why we be not push for such a provision for every disorder and condition that people have when they come into hospital . that be why we be not focus on something like a treatability test , or otherwise . this have a specific real - life fall - out . if people need to be in hospital after 28 day and there be a deprivation of liberty , that be go to happen . it will not stop happen ; with the good will in the world , and even with this Bill , it will keep on happen . People will either be detain under liberty protection safeguard , or they will end up be detain with anxiety relate to their ASD or learn disability , which would place they within scope of the Mental Health Act . a further challenge and disparity in the Bill be that it do not affect forensic provision . People could be keener to pursue a criminal prosecution of people with ASD or an ld because that would enable a long stay in detention than 28 day . that be why in the pre - legislative scrutiny we suggest that there should be an option to get a pre - authorisation for detention beyond 28 day by go to a tribunal , which we think might deal with some of the concern raise . personally , I like the idea of pre - authorisation in general beyond 28 day , and it be something that Professor Richardson speak about in her review back in the late ' 90 . the Government recognise that there be challenge with this area , which be why these change be in the schedule . there be a recognition that , frankly , this be not workable , and we will see as the Bill progress that there be broad concern about how it operate . another area of concern be nominate person and parental responsibility . the Bill change " near relative " to a " nominated person " , which mean that people can choose who perform that important role under the 1983 Act . the near relative or nominated person can discharge someone from the power of the Act , which would inevitably mean that they would be discharge from hospital — there be power to bar people , but it be quite a high threshold . this measure be important because it will allow someone under the age of 18 to choose someone who be not their parent to have that important statutory power . we raise this issue in the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee . we could have a situation in which a 16 - year - old with competence who be detain under the 1983 Act in hospital choose their mate , or somebody else — not their parent or someone with parental responsibility — to have the power to discharge they from measure under the Act , which would inevitably mean they leave hospital . the parent , who in such situation be often responsible in some way for the after care , would lose that power . I be concern , as be the Lords , about the impact of that measure on the Children Act 1989 . I think there be a serious problem in change this area of law — we do not have this in physical health — and introduce the ability to give a statutory power to a non - parent . I know the Minister will look into that in the Bill Committee , but I think the Government will have to row back on that . they could easily amend the Bill to say that if someone be under the age of 16 , the nominated person must have parental responsibility unless there be a good reason for they not to have it . sixteen and 17 - year - old be a bit different , especially when people start get close to 18 and there be other child ' s right , but I can not see why we should legislate to let someone under 16 choose someone who do not have parental responsibility to have that important power . the third problem be that the Bill be silent on deprivation of liberty in A & E , which be ongoing . it have be a while since I work in A & E , but there have always be the challenge of what to do with someone who turn up to A & E if the doctor think that they will probably need detain under the Mental Health Act because they be suicidal or very unwell , and want to keep they there while the assessment take place . we can get through it use the Mental Capacity Act 2005 , but it be messy . it would be a lot clear for everybody if we say , for example , that section 5 ( 2 ) of the 1983 Act , which allow for temporary detention , could apply to an A & e setting . there be a bunch of technical stuff about the interaction between deprivation of liberty and the Mental Capacity Act , but I suspect you will start give I the evil eye , Madam Deputy Speaker , and tell I to move on if I start — [ interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker say no , but I suspect that member across the House might start do that , so I will move on . let I flag two thing in the Bill . it allow for a discharge from hospital under supervise conditional discharge to a deprivation of liberty . that be in response to the case of Secretary of State for Justice v . MM , which involve a problem with how the law currently operate . as far as I know , in mental health law we have never have a situation where deprivation of liberty in the community be authorise under the Mental Health Act — someone have to be in a registered hospital . that be a big Rubicon to cross . I see why the Government need to tidy up this area of law , but I be not convince that we have realise what a big Rubicon this be to cross . the operation of the Mental Health Act have always mean that someone be detain in hospital , but when they be in the community they be in the community . someone might have certain restriction place on they by a community treatment order , or otherwise , but they be not deprive of their liberty in their home or in some other community set that be not a register medical hospital . I think that measure need a bit more reflection . I believe that the majority of those who will undergo compulsory treatment under detention , certainly for a long period of time , under this legislation will be people with psychosis , such as schizophrenic form of psychosis , schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorder , but lot of the debate and focus have be on non - psychotic illness . that be not to say that those illness be less important — they be certainly not less important , especially for those who experience they — but I be concerned that people with schizophrenia always get a raw deal . they be often marginalise by society and in term of the amount of advocacy they have . in fact , a lot of the evidence that we review in the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee focus on non - psychotic disorder , perhaps because sadly people often turn their back on people with psychotic illness . sometimes those people find themselves in a situation where their illness be so debilitate that they can not advocate for themselves , so there tend to be a bias towards disorder such as dementia , ASD and LD , where there be someone to advocate , such as CAMHS or family who might push a little bit more . I be not say that any condition be more important — I really want to stress that — but as parliamentarian , we do not necessarily understand that the bulk of the condition that the Bill focus on concern psychosis . finally , I have speak a lot about how psychosis can lead to people be detain in hospital and about the impact of that . psychosis be a pretty terrible disease but it do not need to be : lot of people get well and it be one of the most treatable disease . the Bill will help people to get well and we can not lose sight of that . I welcome today ' s Second reading of the Bill . I would like to focus on one aspect of the legislation : the removal of autism and learning disability from the definition of mental disorder under section 3 of the Mental Health Act 1983 . I recently visit a wonderful local charity , the Challenging Behaviour Foundation . it be the only UK charity specifically focus on the need of child , young people and adult with severe learning disability whose behaviour may be describe as challenging , and their family . on that visit , I be shocked to learn that under the Mental Health Act , autistic people and people with a learn disability can be detain in mental health hospital indefinitely , just because they be autistic or have a learn disability . I thank the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) for share his extensive professional experience , but I disagree with he on one point : in my view , autism and learning disability be not mental health condition , and I do not believe that they should be treat as such in law , which be a view share by a lot of people in the sector who I have speak to in advance of the debate . this issue be currently affect a lot of people . as my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) say , over 2 , 000 autistic people and people with a learn disability be in mental health hospital in England today , the vast majority of whom be there under the Mental Health Act . importantly , around 225 of they be under the age of 18 , so this be affect a lot of our young people . mental health hospital be often inappropriate for autistic people and people with a learn disability . once detain , they can get stick in those setting for many year , which can be deeply overwhelming and damaging and lead to lifelong trauma . as my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge mention , the average length of stay for current in - patient be nearly five year , and we have to ask ourselves why that be . the late available data show that the key reason for delay discharge be a lack of suitable housing and a lack of social care . charity like CBF continue to hear worrying story of abuse , over - medication , unnecessary restraint and seclusion in these setting . back in 2011 , " Panorama " uncover abuse at Winterbourne View hospital , bring attention to the fact that many people with a learn disability and autistic people be be detain in hospital , when they could and should be live in the community . since then , there have be numerous policy intervention and action plan from the previous Government . however , sadly they have not result in the change promise and all national target to reduce in - patient number have be miss ; in fact , the number have increase . legislative change be clearly need , and I welcome the change to detention criterion in the Bill that will mean that autistic people and people with a learn disability can not be detain for treatment unless they have a co - occur mental health condition that require in - patient mental health care . however , on page 72 of the impact assessment , the Government say that the propose change " will only be switch on when system be able to demonstrate sufficient level of community support " . ensure appropriate provision of service in the community be crucial to support autistic people and those with a learn disability , so that they can be discharge from hospital , and so that we can prevent need from escalate , and prevent admission to mental health hospital . however , if there be no comprehensive , fully resource plan to build capacity in the community and enable this change to be " switch on " , this vital reform could be delay for far too long . I urge the Government to publish a comprehensive plan to ensure that the change to detention criterion can be commence , and to ensure accountability for this process . ideally , commencement would be in 2027 , in line with modelling in the impact assessment . I also ask that those change be co - produce with the people who will be affect by they . the previous Government ' s " build the Right Support Service Model " could act as the starting point , but I draw the Minister ' s attention to the challenge behaviour national strategy group , co - ordinated by CBF , which have develop a co - produce , lifelong action plan that set out not only the change that need to be make to get community support right , but resource and good practice . I encourage the Minister to meet family to well understand the impact of inappropriate detention on people with a learn disability or autism and their family . I would be happy to help co - ordinate that through CBF . eight month ago , in my maiden speech to Parliament , I say that Fiona Laskaris would succeed in change the law that prevent she from save her autistic son , Christopher , from murder . I be here today to honour that commitment . we be on the cusp of change the law . we have get this far thank to the National Autistic Society ; mps from across the Chamber work together to overcome injustice , include the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) , the right hon . member for Leeds South ( Hilary Benn ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) ; steadfast support from my party , the Liberal Democrats , and support from the Prime Minister and the Government , in a way that represent Parliament at its good ; and Elisa Menendez and Romilly Weeks from ITV , who run the story . above all , we get this far because of the courage and determination of Fiona Laskaris to save other from the fate that befell her son , Christopher . Fiona and Cara , Christopher ' s sister , be in the Gallery . Christopher be not unlike many autistic child . he be a sensitive , intelligent , loving and compassionate boy , who once ask his mum to stop on the way to school to rescue a lamb that be stick in a fence . I first meet Fiona when I be eight . I stay in my bedroom and ignore she , perhaps because I be angry that she be buy my home off my dad ; my mum have die when I be a few month old , and I be a sensitive boy . well , they move in ; Christopher grow up in my old bedroom , and he love the house as much as I do , but as a young man live alone in Leeds , he struggle . despite Fiona plead for help for year , she be never able to attain for he the mental capacity assessment that he need to determine his support requirement . horrifically , he be exploit and murder by a man who have just be release from jail . Christopher be 24 . we be work with the Government on an amendment to the Bill to ensure that the view of family member be consider when determine an adult ' s requirement for a mental capacity assessment . Christopher ' s story be not unique . King ' s College London find that in 2022 alone , there be 95 preventable death of people with autism and learn disability in case in which the Mental Capacity Act 2005 have not be correctly follow . it can be hard to grasp the scale of the special educational need and disability crisis in this country , but ten of thousand of SEND child be out of school , include 1 , 800 in Surrey alone . we be lose autistic child , include my constituent Jennifer Chalkley , to avoidable suicide , and , at worst , we be abandon autistic people in their 20 to murderer ; we be fail a generation . how we answer their call for justice will serve as a measure of who we be , and I believe the answer be less a matter of money than of leadership . we know from Nobel laureate James Heckman that early intervention be exponentially more effective and economical in today ' s brutalise system , which have cost the life of Christopher , Jennifer and too many other . although this amendment be only a small part of the answer , it can save life . if one grieve mother can change the law , perhaps we can change the other thing , too . if we succeed , it will be above all because of the voice of broken but unbeaten parent , like Fiona , demand change . although Christopher have a difficult life , he have the most precious thing that any man can have : a love and devoted mum . it be up to we to ensure that Fiona be a witness that in our country , it be possible for the vulnerable to be hear , for injustice to be overcome , and to find , beyond grief , hope . that be a very moving speech . I commend the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) on a powerful and vital contribution to this debate . in fact , I commend everyone who have speak so far , often from personal experience and expertise . this be unfinished business , and this Bill be long overdue . I have be reflect on my first placement as a pre - registration student nurse . I go straight into a mental health ward . I be not a mental health nurse ; that be not the route I take , but not because anything I see there particularly turn I off it . however , it be a remarkable experience . when I walk into the unit for the first time , I be show a burn pool table ; it have be burn down the day before . the staff apologise and we move on . the staff be full of compassion , but also frustration , and one of the thing that they be frustrate with be the Mental Health Act 1983 . this be some time ago ; we be talk about 1996 . in one of my very first teach session on that unit , I be tell about all the thing that need to be change in the Act , so it be slightly surprising that I have wind up in this place , with the opportunity to change and challenge those element . the point make to I then be particularly about the challenge for different community , and the way that people from different ethnicity and culture be assess for mental ill health . the Bill will help to adjust that , and hopefully we can mitigate those problem , and move beyond and progress from the 1983 Act . some thing be not even properly on people ' s radar then ; for example , there be less understanding of neurodiversity , autism and learning disability , and the inappropriate way that they be cover by the Act . many member have talk about the large number of people who be autistic or have learn disability who be incarcerate . that have be describe as an offence against human right , and I believe that to be true , but I also believe that it will be challenge to overcome . in 2019 , the long - term plan for the NHS be bring forward by Baroness May , and several member of this House have a key part in drive forward that change . it say that we should challenge the detention of people who be autistic in mental health location that people be leave in for a very long time . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) that the average length of stay of someone who be autistic or have learn disability and be detain under the 1983 Act be 4 . 7 year . that be a lot long than many people with psychotic illness would need to be detain . that long - term plan for the NHS have great intention , and make suggestion for overcome the issue and liberate people from detention . it be not just the pandemic that come soon afterwards that kibosh they : it be really hard to drive change in the system when the Mental Health Act protect clinician and senior people in the NHS in not drive forward that change that be need . to drive it forward , we need a change to the Act , and that be what we have in front of we . I commend everyone who have work hard on the Bill to ensure that patient ' voice be hear . in my constituency of Sittingbourne and Sheppey , we have big mental health challenge . we have the high suicide rate in Kent and , I think , the 37th high suicide rate of any local authority area in the country . that mean that 37 other member in this House have even big challenge when it come to suicide and mental health provision . I be sure that what many of those place and member have in common be the challenge of economic deprivation and inequality , which — let we face it — be the big driver of poor mental health outcome . that be mention admirably by the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , who talk at length about the complexity of the 1983 Act . I commend he for his insight on the challenge of change that . we have to change thing across the board — in housing , access to employment and transport , thing that be way beyond the bound of the Bill . we should use this Bill to drive that forward . we should look around our community and see the creative approach that we can use . on Saturday , I have a lovely day out in the sunshine at Curly ' s farm on the Isle of Sheppey in my constituency . it be an active farm , set up by two father to support their son , who have profound learning disability and autism . it bring in child with learn disability , autism , mental health challenge and behavioural challenge generally . it be something like the Challenging Behaviours Foundation , which my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) talk about , and which be also very active in my constituency ; I be glad to host an event for it . the farm really show we that when we get people out of institutional setting and outdoors into different environment , they can thrive in a way that they do not in school , or in healthcare setting . it be transformational to the life of the child and young people who go there , who often go on to work in agriculture . I be sure that many other hon . member see that . my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that patient with challenging behaviour should not be detain in a mental health ward for many , many year . they should be in a different setting . do he agree that we do not have enough support or accommodation for patient ? we need to invest more in community setting for some of these patient with challenging behaviour . my hon . friend have jump ahead of I on that — not surprisingly , give his background as a mental health nurse . that be absolutely true . we do need to invest more , but we need to think beyond the NHS . although this be the Mental Health Bill and it have " health " in its name , this issue be much big than the service that the NHS can provide . there be a weakness in this Bill . the concern I have , which several other member have mention , be that it do not tie we down to a tight timeline for this transformation . the Bill provide a get - out . that be do to ensure that service in the community be properly set up , but I worry that that the timeline will slip and slip . the time to move be now . People have be languish for too long in setting that do not offer they a therapeutic way forward , and in place that be frankly inhumane and breach what we would all consider to be our human right . the Minister be here and listen , and I recommend that he think about how we can get an active plan , so that we do not let this issue slip , but actively ensure support for service in the community , invest in they where need , and foster they . I very much support what my hon . friend be say about make sure that there be an active plan . one of my concern be that implementation of this Bill will be delay until community support be ready . do he agree that it would be welcome if the Minister offer a reflection on what good look like in this space , and what ready look like , so that we know what we be aim for ? I absolutely agree . we should flip this around from a delay until we be absolutely ready to an active process of decide what good look like . two week ago in my constituency , I run a mental health conference . that be largely because , as I be go around as a new MP talk to every different organisation I could , mental health be right at the top of nearly all their worry list , whether it be the food bank , the school , the police , the prison , or organisation in my community that have set themselves up to support people with mental health . I have a MenTalk in Sittingbourne and a MenTalk in Sheppey ; they work in different way , but that show the level of pressure that exist locally . all of those organisation bring out mental health as their big worry , even if it be not their primary purpose . just bring people together and get they to talk together — people who perhaps have not talk to each other until that point — really make a difference . you could see it in the room on that day . I be sure I be way behind the curve compare with a lot of other member who have be do this sort of stuff already , but for I , it really show that we have get to be active in push this forwards . what we have learn from 2019 and the long - term plan for the NHS be that it be the implementation that matter . it be not the word in the strategy ; it be get an implementation plan really tight and fast on the ground . give that the impact assessment talk about 2027 as a key point , I would like to see a commitment in the Bill to produce a workable plan by 2027 at the late — one that can give we the road map we need for the future . that have be call for by organisation such as Mencap and the National Autistic Society , so I really commend it to the Minister . despite have work in healthcare for most of my career and serve on the Health and Social Care Select Committee , have listen to the speech thus far this evening , I feel in awe of the experience of hon . member on both side of the House , especially the hon . member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) and my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) . I also commend the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) , who I know be support by my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , for his extraordinarily powerful speech . this Bill be essentially about the duty of care not only to those who have mental health issue , but to the public , include the family , friend , carer , public servant and everyone else who interact with those individual . the duty of care also exist to protect those individual from themselves . as many member have say , our hope and ambition should be that as few people as possible find themselves in a crisis situation . I therefore entirely endorse and support the comment about ensure that we have proper and well - fund mental health service , both in the community and in the acute setting . the hon . member mention support for the person need help — to help themselves , and also to help society . do he agree that more and more people be get into situation where they do not feel that they be be help , and that they just feel incarcerated and restrict ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that more can be do to help people in crisis . what I would say , however — I think my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge also make this point — be that there be people who be at such a point that , unfortunately , they need to be incarcerate in order to be able to help themselves . hopefully , they spend their time incarcerate not just away from society but be treat effectively and appropriately . that bring I to the point that this be a balance act and a difficult situation . I think all of we of all party be clear that the current Act be no long fit for purpose , especially when we think about forensic mental health . as such , I be glad that the Government be take forward this legislation , which be start under the previous Government . the cross - party consensus we have hear this evening reflect the fact that this piece of legislation have come from both of the major party . I be likely to be on the Bill Committee after the Whitsun recess , so I will not test the patience of the House by go through every single bit of the Bill I have some interest in or concern about , but I will briefly raise three important area , which I be pleased be raise by member in the other place . a number of opposition amendment be table in the other place which would have strengthen the Bill , and I hope they will be make in Committee in this place . the first area be reduce unnecessary police involvement . the noble Lord Kamall and Baroness May table some amendment that in my view represent a very significant and much - need shift in how detention and removal under the Mental Health Act can be manage . under the current framework , the power to detain individual and move they to a place of safety — particularly under section 135 and 136 — be largely restrict and fall under the responsibility of police officer . although those provision be design to protect the public , they can often result in the criminalisation of people in acute mental health crisis , even when there be no threat of violence or risk to other . the amendment table in the other place would have allow authorised and qualified health professional such as paramedic , approve mental health professional or specialised nurse to carry out those detention and to move individual under section 2 , 3 and 5 of the Act . that would relieve police officer of responsibility that fall outside their core expertise while reduce the stigma and trauma associate with police - lead intervention . it would streamline the process , ensure that individual be support by professional train specifically in mental health care and would maintain police involvement only where there be a clear and present risk to safety . that would significantly change and strengthen the system , place mental health crisis more firmly within the domain of health rather than law enforcement . section 135 and 136 of the current Mental Health Act give the police the power to break into someone ' s property or detain somebody in a public place where there be the possibility of the involvement of weapon . do the hon . member think that health professional would be able to manage those kind of situation ? would the police not be the good people to deal with those situation ? I be sorry if I be not clear for the hon . Gentleman . I think I have make it very clear that I be talk about situation in which there be no risk to other professional . clearly , in the situation he describe , the police be entirely the right people to be involve . the second area that I want to touch on be that of strengthen safeguard for vulnerable child . what I would like to see introduce be an essential safeguard for child and young people within the mental health care system . as my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge mention , the current legislation allow for a nominated person to be appoint to represent the child ' s interest . in my view , though , it do not provide adequate protection against the risk that that person could be coercive , abusive or in other way inappropriate , particularly in case involve look - after child or those with complex family dynamic . as such , I would like to see amendment make that address that gap by establish clear criterion for who can be appoint as a child ' s nominate person . for look - after child , the local authority would automatically become the nominate individual , ensure oversight by a public body accountable for the child ' s welfare . for other child , only individual with legal parental responsibility — such as a guardian or someone name in a court order — should be appoint . such measure would ensure that no vulnerable child would be expose to undue influence during what may be one of the most difficult or disorient time in their life . they would align mental health law with broad child protection standard and reinforce the principle that safeguarding must be at the heart of any mental health intervention involve child . finally , I want to see amendment make that would introduce more patient voice and accountability . I accept that in its current form , the Bill make step in the right direction , but I would like to see an amendment make mirror the one that be table in the other place by the noble Lords Howe and Kamall . such an amendment would introduce the valuable and forward - look provision of a mandatory debrief session within 30 day of discharge from detention under part 2 of the Mental Health Act . that session would be lead by an independent mental health advocate , and would provide patient with the opportunity to reflect on their experience , raise any concern about their treatment , and offer feedback in a safe , supportive and non - judgmental setting . that would be more than just a procedural addition ; it represent a shift in culture , which I think we would all agree with , towards embed patient voice and accountability in the mental health care system . it recognise the importance of empower individual after detention , support their recovery and learning from their live experience to improve future service . mental health charity and third sector organisation have strongly endorse the proposal , so I hope the Minister will give some indication in his wind - up that he would support a similar amendment . take together , these reform prioritise professional clinical opinion , safeguard child from inappropriate influence during period of acute vulnerability and elevate the patient voice in the post - care process . in do so , they align the Mental Health Act close to modern standard of care , international good practice and evolve public expectation . these amendment be essential to strengthen the Bill , ensure that our mental health system become not only more effective , but more compassionate , responsive and just . the Mental Health Bill be a long overdue update to the Mental Health Act 1983 , and I hope it will be the start of a much wide overhaul of a mental health system that be often not fit for purpose and have historically be treat as secondary to the physical health system . it be a system where too often patient voice be ignore , injustice be common and the use of detention be rely upon in the place of person - centre community care . too frequently , those in acute mental health crisis can not access the right support . they be refuse help in the community , force to rely on accident and emergency , and detain against their will as their mental health deteriorate . incidence of detention be three time high in the most deprive area . black british people be detain at 3 . 5 time the rate of white people , and those with learn disability and / or autism be at a unique and increase risk from detention and the impact that it can have on their life . I will initially focus on that latter group . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on learn disability . under the 1983 Act , as we have hear , learn disability or autism in themselves can be a reason for detention . the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) say that we will disagree on this , and I be afraid that we will , because I do not think that learn disability or autism be necessarily condition of the mind . a number of these condition be genetic and also affect the physical health of a person . rise — I be sure the hon . Member will want to come in on this . I appreciate the hon . member give way . there be a logical inconsistency , which be that people with autism and learning disability be look after under mental health service for autism and learning disability . if the argument be , " well , those condition should not be within the scope of Mental Health Act " , one could make an argument that they should not be within scope of mental health service full stop . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I would welcome the opportunity to discuss this issue in more detail with he , although we will probably continue to disagree . People with learn disability and autism can suffer from mental health condition as much as the rest of the population , but they have a unique set of challenge . I point out as a note to policymaker in general that they should not conflate learning disability and autism as one and the same thing . that be vital . at the end of January 2025 , 2 , 065 in - patient in lock mental health facility be autistic or live with a learn disability . as one of my hon . friend say early , the average length of stay for these patient be nearly five year . for those with a learn disability or autism , a locked mental health ward can be a live hell . for someone with sensory issue , a reliance on routine , a need for a specialist diet or equipment or myriad other need , be in a busy , over - stimulate environment — often with strip lighting and minimal privacy — often mean they be set up to fail from the very beginning . my hon . friend be make an important speech , and I know that her experience in this issue be almost second to none . she be make a point about how those with learn disability be confine in the way she suggest could add to their mental health issue . support they in the community would alleviate a lot of those mental health issue . in the long term , that be well for they and for the community . I will come to that point a little later , but that confinement be detrimental to their mental health . it can sometimes be hard to pick apart a co - exist or co - occur mental health condition from the behaviour exhibit within that environment . this be part of the reason that it be all but impossible for some detain individual , in the circumstance they be in , to demonstrate the behaviour change they need to prove they have become sufficiently well to be release . my attention be draw last year to the case of a young woman call Bethany , who be detain for the good part of half a decade under the Mental Health Act . she be an autistic young woman whose parent believe that she enter a secure unit be the good choice . however , she end up be lock up for day , week and then month on end in a room with only a mattress on the floor . she be unable to see her family or her support network , and her parent be absolutely devastate at be unable to get she out of that environment and see she continually deteriorate . it be hard to imagine the anguish of people see someone that they love go through this . when this happen to someone or their family , how on earth can they ever again trust the system that put they there ? learning disabled people and autistic people who have be through that have their confidence in access support take away . in turn , that can create a vicious cycle . I strongly welcome the move that this Bill make towards remove learn disability and autism as a reason alone for detention . however , similar to my hon . friend the Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) , I note that the Government have say that these change to detention criterion will only be switch on when system can demonstrate a sufficient level of community support . that be a source of real concern . as the NHS Confederation have warn , the " success of the reform will be dependent on the wide infrastructure to support " the Bill . as other have say , there be no clarity on what a sufficient level of support mean in practice . we do not know where we be head or when we will have get there . the most successful support for learn disabled and autistic people to live independently in their community be integrate care that encompass health , housing , occupation and much more besides . I would welcome the Minister ' s assurance on how that will be deliver in the timescale set out and how we get from where we be now to where good be . the continual detention of people in this way should shame we all , and an end to that can not come fast enough . I sound a note of caution — I think this be fairly similar to that of the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge — that the legislation continue to allow for the co - occurrence of mental health condition to be a reason to detain someone with a learn disability and autism . that in and of itself could lead to this continual cycle where people be detain for long than be necessary for their treatment while in an environment that be entirely counterproductive to they become well . we also need those with a specialism in learn disability and autism to be present in assess whether an individual also have a co - occur mental health condition . finally , I put a plea in to the Minister that there be a real need for those who live with a learn disability or autism to be properly consult . a number of disabled people ' s charity that be run by people with a learn disability , such as the " Bring People Home from Hospital " campaign , which be operate under the auspex of Inclusion London , do not feel that they have have sufficient opportunity to input . a very minor point be that some relevant document relate to this legislation have not be print in easy read . if they have , it have take a while for they to arrive . People who have a live experience of these condition be unable to contribute in a meaningful way . more broadly , I welcome the legislation ' s attempt to make progress in put patient voice at the heart of care , particularly through advance choice document , but there be scope to go far . the Royal College of Psychiatrists be advocate for a statutory right to an advance choice document , which the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee also recommend . that would ensure that all patient who would benefit from one would get one , with the aim of reduce detention and involuntary treatment . while I recognise the importance of this step and this legislation alongside the Government ' s investment in mental health crisis centre , a pledge to recruit 8 , 500 mental health staff and the Secretary of State ' s commitment to the mental health investment standard , there be a desperate need to transform community mental health service to put patient voice and experience at its heart and avoid the need for detention order in the first place . as a member of the Health and Social Care Committee , I have have the privilege of hear from some extraordinarily courageous individual who share their experience of live with a serious mental illness . it be in that same spirit that I will share my own experience now . I hope that it offer an insight into the limitation of our current system . I be diagnose with obsessive compulsive disorder as a teenager , and with bipolar disorder in my 20 . in two and half decade with these condition I have receive good care , but sadly that be the exception and not the rule . I have never be ask what it be that I want from treatment , what it be that I want for my life , and how I can be help to get there . I have receive care that be patronising , reductive , inconsistent and non - existent . during mental health crisis I have have to tread a fine line between prove that I be ill , and sometimes extremely ill , and prove that I be not so ill that I need to lose my liberty , because I know that more often than not , treatment be base not on therapeutic care but on risk management . like thousand of other , I have have to create my own care package and my own route to treatment , because I make the decision that I deserve to live , and I deserve to live well — and also that my child deserve their mum . however , I be very aware that my ability to do this be base on a number of privilege , in no small part a very supportive family , which so many do not have . while I welcome the Bill for its advance in reduce the amount of detention and increase the agency of those who be detain , I must call for a significant overhaul of community mental health service to prevent crisis from occur in the first place . we know that we can and must do well . I ask all member to note that when we discuss people ' s serious mental illness , we often talk as though they be " other " , which they be not . let I say this : " there be someone stand here among you , a Member of Parliament , who have a serious mental illness . it do not prevent I from do my job or from live my life ; in some way , it make I well at it . " while the Bill continue its passage through Parliament , can we please bear in mind that we be talk about individual , and individual who will be affect by it , and that what we seek to do — and what I hope we will accomplish — be give people who live with serious mental illness the ability and the right to live the good life that they possibly can , with all the support that we can make available ? the hon . Lady ' s family must be very proud . I wish to draw the House ' s attention to the appalling case of a young man who be very badly fail by mental health service and , indeed , tragically lose his life as a result . today I be represent his family , my constituent Graeme , Sam and Kaitlyn , who have be campaign to ensure that no other family have to go through the distress that they have endure and continue to endure . Declan Morrison be 26 year old when he die . he have complex need , and require some of the most specialist care and support throughout his life . he have autism , associate severe learning disability , bipolar disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder . he be non - verbal and require 24 - hour residential care , which he have need and receive since he be 11 year old . Declan ' s behaviour could be challenging , and at time he would injure himself — and sometimes , latterly , staff member care for he . that be why it be so important that he be support by those who know he well , and who be able to understand his behaviour and therefore provide , as good they could , for his need . his family be unable to provide he with the care he need in their home , and have to put their trust in the system and specialist carer to make sure that he be look after . sadly , their trust be break , with the most devastating consequence . Declan be move into his final residential home in May 2021 after the previous placement have become unable to meet his need , although in a subsequent independent safeguarding adult review follow his death , that decision be call into question . for a brief period , Declan seem to settle into his new placement , but quite quickly staff at the care home raise concern that they could not safely care for he owe to his behaviour , which have become particularly challenging . however , attempt to find an alternative single - space home for he , which he need , fail . there be nothing available , not a single appropriate placement , so he remain in that placement for a further 10 month , with his mental and physical health worsen . I will not describe here what life be like for Declan and his family at this time , because it be too distressing . my hon . friend be make an important point about lack of provision . do he agree that the 10 - year timescale for ensure that that provision be available be critical ? if the Government could speed that up , it would be extremely helpful in instance such as this . I entirely agree , and I will come on to make that very point . needless to say , event take a very dark and ultimately heartbreaking turn . in March 2022 , a serious incident occur : Declan become very distressed , and assault some staff member . Police be call , and a number of officer assist staff to restrain Declan . as a last resort , he be detain under section 136 of the Mental Health Act and take to the section 136 suite at Fulbourn hospital . some may not be aware that under the law , patient who be place in a section 136 suite should be there for no more than 24 hour , or 36 hour in extreme circumstance . Declan be there for 10 day — 10 day in an emergency suite that be entirely unsuitable for a person with his severe need ; 10 day while more than 100 place be contact ; 10 day during which not one bed in suitable accommodation could be find locally , regionally or nationally for he . finally , he simply could not cope , and he bang his head repeatedly against a wall , inflict a catastrophic head injury on himself . he be take to hospital and operate on , but he die some day later in April 2022 , when his family make the heart - wrench decision to turn off his life support . it be painfully relevant that we be debate the Mental Health Bill today , because clause 3 and 4 specifically address the detention of people with autism and learning disability , like Declan . the Bill would limit detention for treatment under section 3 of the Act , but I must ask the Minister : would these provision have be enough to prevent Declan ' s tragedy ? his case highlight the critical importance of have appropriate crisis provision and suitable community placement available , not just in theory but in reality . the coroner ' s report on Declan ' s death and the independent care review find major failing in the system that be suppose to protect and care for he . he be acknowledge to have be in crisis for month . ultimately there be , and there remain , an enormous shortage of available placement for someone with Declan ' s complex need , both in the community and within the NHS . as Declan ' s father tell I , in word that I hope will be heed , the reliance on the section 136 suite to contain autistic individual while they be in crisis be abhorrent , and must be see as a breach of the Human Rights Act . Declan ' s sister , Kaitlyn , have call for specific crisis provision to be fund and create for individual with autism who need a designate place of safety when experience a severe mental health crisis . such provision would need appropriately train and experienced staff . in fact , one be create in Cambridgeshire follow Declan ' s death . sadly , the funding be pull and it close , but it operate at 90 % capacity when it be open , show the very real and immediate need for this kind of provision to exist permanently and across the country . the Bill place new duty on integrate care board and local authority to provide community support for people with autism and learning disability , but how will the Government ensure that the duty it outline translate into sustainable service that prevent case like Declan ' s from ever happen again ? duty without resource be merely word on paper . although it be welcome that clause 49 remove police station and prison as place of safety , Declan ' s case show that even designate section 136 suite can be wholly inappropriate for individual with complex need . how will the Government ensure that appropriate alternative be in place before the provision commence ? I note with deep concern that the Government anticipate that full implementation of the Bill could take up to 10 year , which be too long for vulnerable people to continue to be at risk . in the light of the coroner ' s finding in Declan ' s case , will the Government commit to prioritise the provision relate to autistic people and those with learn disability , particularly the development of appropriate crisis service , as outline in the Bill ? on behalf of Graeme , Sam , Kaitlyn and all those people like Declan , I ask the Government whether they be satisfied that the provision set out in the Bill will prevent tragedy like this one from ever happen again . if not , I urge they to make change to ensure that it will . for Declan and all those with autism and learning disability , who deserve well from our mental health system , we must make sure that the Bill deliver the change they need — not in 10 year , but now . their life depend on it . it be humble to contribute to a debate with contribution like that from the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) . I pay tribute to he for share Declan ' s story in this place , and to my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) for her very personal contribution . I warmly welcome the fact that the Government be give this issue the prioritisation that it richly deserve . the reform will give patient great choice and enhance right , and ensure that everybody be treat with dignity and respect throughout treatment . I will make three broad point about mental health service in England and how they relate to the passage of this Bill . the first be about Cumbria ' s hidden crisis . Cumbria ' s suicide rate be 50 % high than that in the rest of the country . over five people die from suicide every month in Cumbria — more than double the number of road death . each one of these life lose be a tragedy . they leave behind family , friend , co - worker , neighbour and emergency worker — a web of people in the community who try to make sense of the grief , loss and shock . some fantastic local organisation in my constituency be work to bring that number down , include every Life Matters , Andy ' s Man Club and the West Cumbria Mental Health Partnership , but they be fight a grow problem of deplete resource . it be in this context that we need excellent mental health service , so it be particularly welcome that , week after the general election last year , the Government fund a new initiative call Hope Haven , an open - access mental health hub with some accommodation attach to it . this new service be be build by brilliant local partner in my constituency as we speak , and I have high hope for the contribution that it can make . however , the new service have come at the same time that Cumbria , Northumberland , Tyne and Wear NHS foundation trust have make the regrettable decision to close Yewdale ward , an in - patient mental health ward in Whitehaven that be the only in - patient service in the area . if it do close , patient will need to travel for over an hour to reach the near in - patient service , and the community have very poor public transport option . I have call for the ICB to investigate the process that have be follow to reach the decision , so that we can pause the closure . if we be to improve mental health service across our country , the reform need to work for rural , isolated and coastal area too . my second broad point be about the need of people with experience of grow up in the care system and the link to mental health service . care - experienced adult be hugely over - represent in our system of mental health detention , assessment and treatment , so the much - need reform will be a particularly welcome change for this group . on the important issue of suicide and the extremely high rate in Cumbria , do my hon . friend and constituency neighbour agree that it be extremely important that coroner work with , and provide information to , local authority and local health service to ensure that we can deliver meaningful policy on anti - suicide strategy in area like Cumbria ? I thank my constituency neighbour for suggest the type of solution that we should look at . some area of the country have much high rate of suicide than other , and we know far too little about why those area have those trend . around half of child in care be expect to have some sort of mental health disorder , and they be estimate to be four to five time more likely than the rest of the child population to have a mental health need . despite that , child in care be disproportionately reject for support from CAMHS service , and this build up unmet mental health need for which we as a country be pay the price in social and economic cost far down the line . just one example of that be the surge in deprivation of liberty order that we have see in recent year . in 2017 - 18 , there be 103 application ; in 2024 , the figure be 1 , 280 . deprivation of liberty order application often leave judge in our family court with impossible choice over the secure accommodation option for child . young people who grow up in the care system should receive the very good that our country have to offer , with help be speedy and tailor . although wide change be need to make that a reality , humanise our mental health legislation in the way set out in this Bill will make a difference . my hon . friend have talk with real passion and expertise about child in care , and he make some really important point . do he agree that the mental health support we give to young carer — young people who support a family member — be equally important ? they make such a huge difference to our community and the NHS , and they too should be support . absolutely . we need to support young carer and young people in care . one of the common challenge face both of those population be that service sometimes fail to look at what support can be provide to the whole family unit , so I take my hon . friend ' s point . finally , I will say a few word about a sensitive issue that be a grow trend . Most week , I visit a school in my constituency , and there be a grow theme : teacher , and now parent , be raise concern about the potential over - diagnosis or misdiagnosis of ADHD and mild autism . I raise this point for two reason : first , because the risk be that the scale of the increase in diagnosis be so great that it may take away much - need mental health service from those with acute and genuine need ; and secondly , because we have yet to grasp the potential negative impact of treat what may be social challenge as medical disorder . some 400 , 000 child be currently await an ADHD assessment , and rate of diagnosis have rise sharply in recent year . diagnosis vary dramatically depend on where someone live , who do the assessment and , worryingly , the socioeconomic background of the individual . be my hon . friend able to name an intervention for a diagnosis of mild autism that could be consider a medical intervention , not something to address one of the social issue he have identify , that could harm the individual ? yes , in a number of school we have see a grow number of ADHD and mild autism diagnosis that do not come with any form of treatment . that be in a system where there be an expectation that education , health and care plan will be fill and meet by multiple agency , and the family be often leave battle the system , have to fight for a diagnosis to get that label and then find that the help be not there . my argument be that those family — not all , but some of they — be battle a system that already have finite resource and now spend a huge proportion of its resource gatekeepe , when actually we should step back and look at what support the young person and their family need . in the case of ADHD , the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline set out very clearly that , before an assessment be make , it should be establish whether parenting support could be put in place to help . my guess be that , in many case at the moment , that offer of parenting support be not in place before an ADHD diagnosis be make . diagnosis of autism have double in the last five year . I be not say that that be incorrect , but I think the question need to be ask , as part of the wide debate , whether that grow trend be a reflection of previously undiagnosed autism or , because of recent change in the ICD - 11 manual — the 11th edition of the " International Classification of Diseases " — people be be bring into that diagnosis who would previously have be support in other way . I close by urge the Government to consider the implication of the reform of mental health service for those in rural and remote community . they need to acknowledge the benefit that will come from these measure for those with a care experience , but also to think deeply about the need for residential care that can meet their need for a secure setting . they should also consider way in which we as a country can have a full and rich conversation about the grow diagnosis of ADHD and mild autism , so that we can establish the good route of support for the child cry out for support and the parent often battle against the system , who may be build up a future need for the crisis mental health service we have be speak about this evening . before I begin , I want to pay tribute to right hon . and hon . member for their extremely informed , personal and move speech in support of the positive element of the Bill , and for make extremely important , constructive suggestion about how to make it even well than it be . I stand today to speak in strong support of the Bill , and the urgent and long overdue reform of our mental health legislation . the Mental Health Act 1983 , now 40 year old , be design for a different era . while it have provide a legal framework for detain and treat individual in crisis , it no long reflect our modern understanding of mental illness , patient right or good clinical practice . as we have hear , the Act govern both civil patient and those involve in the criminal justice system , and it include power such as community treatment order , but it be clear that the system it underpin be no long fit for purpose . the need for reform be stark and obvious . patient detain under the Act often have little say in their treatment or about who be involve in their care . as we have hear , racial disparity be deeply entrenched , with black or black british people 3 . 5 time more likely to be detain and 11 time more likely to be place under a community treatment order . the journey towards reform begin with the 2018 independent review , lead by Sir Simon Wessely , which identify rise detention rate , poor patient experience and systemic disadvantage for people with learn disability and autism . a draft Bill follow in 2023 , and I commend the Government for take forward the propose Bill . each year , approximately 54 , 000 individual be detain under the Mental Health Act . alarmingly , as I have mention , black individual be nearly four time more likely to be detain and 11 time more likely to be place under a cto . furthermore , nearly 1 , 000 young people be detain annually , yet over half report that their hospital stay do not aid their recovery . these statistic be not just number ; they be a call to action . there be serious concern about the treatment of people with learn disability and autism . while the Bill rightly end inappropriate detention under section 3 of the Mental Health Act when there be no co - occur mental illness , the delay in implementation due to the lack of resource raise fear of criminalisation , misdiagnose , and exclusion from aftercare . we need a fully cost plan , with clear target and accountability , to support this vulnerable group . mind , the lead mental health charity , have identify a further three critical area in which the Bill must go far . the first be tackle racial disparity . the disproportionate detention of black individual under the current Act be a glare injustice . the Bill must include measure to reduce this disparity , such as limit on the use of community treatment order , and the introduction of a " responsible person " to oversee treatment decision . additionally , a statutory duty to monitor and report on progress against these inequality be essential . I therefore support the creation of a dedicated role to monitor and act on racial disparity in detention and treatment . secondly , the principle of least restriction be central to the Bill , yet it remain aspirational ; there be no enforceable right . patient should have a statutory right to assessment and treatment , the ability to appeal treatment decision , and expand access to advocacy service . these right be about not just legal protection , but respect the dignity and autonomy of individual face mental health challenge . thirdly , young people detain under the Mental Health Act often find themselves without adequate support or a voice in decision about their care . the Bill must include a transparent decision - make test , tailor for child and young people , to ensure that their good interest be at the forefront of all treatment decision . there should also be safeguard and the standardisation of advance choice document . the Government say that the implementation timeline could be up to a decade , but I urge they to implement each element of the Bill as soon as be practically possible . this Bill be very welcome , and this be a pivotal moment in the history of mental health care in our country . it be a huge step forward , but it could go far . to truly transform mental health care , we must ensure that the legislation be not only progressive in its intention , but robust in its protection . we have the opportunity to create a system that uphold the right , dignity and humanity of every individual . let we therefore not pass up this chance to make all the necessary change . let we amend this Bill to reflect the value of equality , autonomy and respect , and take this once - in - a - generation opportunity to build a fit - for - purpose mental health system that be fair , more compassionate and more effective . I urge the Government to take this opportunity to address the gap , take heed of the recommendation and concern , and make the Bill right and proper . rise — Order . I want to retain the tone of this debate , but to get everybody in , we will have a speak limit of seven minute , which be still quite a long time . it be a pleasure to be call to speak in this second reading debate . prior to be elect to this House , I work for 22 year in NHS mental health service , and I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on mental health . this be an issue I care about deeply . it have be widely accept that the Mental Health Act be outdate , and the need to modernise it have be talk about for some time . I pay tribute to Baroness May who , when she be Prime Minister , commission Professor Sir Simon wessely to undertake an independent review of the Act , and I commend this Labour Government for introduce the Bill without delay . as member will be aware , last week be Mental Health Awareness Week . the discussion I take part in show how far we have come in remove much of the stigma around mental ill health , but I fear that a lot of stigma remain when it come to discuss severe mental ill health , such as case of schizophrenia . I therefore welcome the importance that the Government have attach to the Bill , and to update the law so that it be fit for the 21st century . I hope that , through our deliberation , we can play our part in ensure that severe mental ill health be treat with the respect and understanding it deserve . the Mental Health Act provide the legal framework for the detention of people when their mental ill health mean that they be at risk to themselves or other , so that they can receive appropriate treatment . the Bill look to modernise that legal framework . I welcome clause 1 , which adopt the four principle of treatment propose in Sir Simon wessely ' s independent review . by adopt those principle , the legislation will give patient great choice , enhance right and support , and ensure that be treat with dignity and respect be an integral part of their treatment . this reform be long overdue . we talk a great deal about want to deliver personalise care in our health service . that should be the guide principle in every part of the service , especially for the most vulnerable . adopt the principle be about redress the balance of power away from the system , so that the patient have more autonomy , and more say over their treatment . that will help to ensure that those in society with the most severe mental health condition get well , more personalised care . I also welcome the statutory role that clause 24 to 28 will give a nominate person , who will have a great say over the patient ' s treatment and care . replace the old hierarchical list of relative with a person who have be select by the patient , albeit that there will be certain safeguard in place , be an update to the legislation to reflect today ' s world . clause 3 deal with the application of the Mental Health Act to autistic people and those who have a learn disability . the clause modify the definition of mental disorder by introduce new definition of autism , learn disability and psychiatric disorder . as a result , people with a learn disability or those who be autistic can no long be detain or make subject to a community treatment order unless they have a co - occurring psychiatric disorder . this be a welcome and long overdue change . under the Mental Health Act , autistic people and those with a learn disability have experience inappropriate care , over - medication and extended period of detention . as we look to modernise the Act , it be wholly appropriate to ensure that they can not be detain unless they have a co - occurring psychiatric disorder . however , concern have be express in part of the learn disability and autism sector that the change may have unintended consequence . for example , it may lead to an increase in alternative route to detention . in particular , concern have be raise that people with high - risk behaviour who require treatment in appropriate and safe hospital environment may end up have to be deal with by the criminal justice system if they can not be detain under the Mental Health Act . these concern be debate when the Bill be consider in the other place , but I would be grateful if the Minister could say whether the Government have give any further consideration to those point . I would also be grateful if he could give an assurance that he and his official will engage with the learn disability and autism sector as the Bill continue through this House . in the other place , the Conservatives be successful in amend the Bill to allow the extension of police power of detention under section 135 and 136 to other specify healthcare professional . the amendment provoke serious concern from representative of healthcare professional , and I understand it be not support by the police either . the " right care , right person " model , put in place in 2023 , have already reduce the time the police have to deal with mental health patient . will the Government look into overturn that amendment ? I would also be grateful if he say how the Government will build on the Bill to ensure wide reform of , and investment in , mental health , and how we can ensure that the aim of the Bill be accompany by high - quality mental health service , especially community service for people experience poor mental health . in preparation for today ' s debate , on Thursday , as chair of the APPG on mental health , I be pleased to organise for a small group of Members a visit to the mental health centre at the St Charles hospital in Kensington . during our visit , we be able to spend time in the mental health crisis assessment service . this excellent facility be open 24 hour a day , seven day a week , for anyone in the area who be experience a mental health crisis . I recommend that such facility be institute across the country , especially in my constituency . in Ashford , there be no mental health emergency facility . over 2 , 600 people whose primary issue be record as mental ill health present themselves at the A & E department at the William Harvey hospital in 2024 . such facility would help to prevent that . I press for more support to be put in place , alongside the Bill . I welcome the direction of the Mental Health Bill . it mark a long - overdue shift in how we treat some of the most vulnerable in our society , recognise that people deserve more than crisis care — they deserve dignity , choice and autonomy . it have be a real privilege to be in the Chamber for this important debate , and to hear the very moving speech by my hon . friend the Member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , and by so many other across the Chamber who share their constituent ' story , and their own . the Bill rightly put patient at its centre . it give they more say in their treatment , improve the complaint process and introduce personalise care plan . replace the outdated " near relative " with a nominate person reflect a broad move toward a more respectful , person - centre system that listen , empower and support recovery . but here be the uncomfortable truth : however well - intentione , the Bill will achieve little unless we confront the funding crisis already engulf our mental health service . the Bill ask overstretched and underpaid staff to deliver change that demand time and care when many be already at break point . my constituent across Guildford see that every single day . Jennifer come to I in despair over the care that her daughter Leah be receive at a local mental health unit . chronic understaffing and a lack of support mean that concern go unanswered . Underfunding have create a cycle of inadequate care — treatment refuse , early discharge to free up bed , and inevitable readmission when Leah ' s need be leave unmet . I have hear from Samantha , whose son suffer a psychotic episode that end in tragedy — a stark reminder of what happen when crisis go unsupported . I also want to mention the story of a young woman whom I will not name , but who make a series of attempt on her life until she tragically succeed , after gain access to a poison from overseas . I know this be not a unique story , and that multiple coroner have write to the Secretary of State for Health and his predecessor on this issue . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss the case and whether it may be possible to use the Mental Health Bill to prevent further similar death ? there be also the fact that across the country people be wait month and sometimes year for mental health care . child and young people be fall through the crack , as CAMHS be overwhelmed and referral be delay ; patient be send mile from home due to local bed shortage ; and police be leave to respond to mental health emergency because there be no one else to call . our system be not just stretch ; it be at break point . yet the proportion of NHS funding go to mental health care be fall — despite soar demand , despite mental illness make up a fifth of the NHS ' s burden , and despite the Government ' s promise . these be not just gap in the system ; they be failure of political will . as well as NHS funding for direct mental health service , do the hon . Lady agree that we should invest in preventive step to help child to avoid the mental health anguish that they be suffer today ? absolutely . I know from my own caseload of too many story of where if young people have receive preventive care and support , they would not be face the tragic situation they and their family be now live through . this government have scrap key mental health target , include goal for early intervention , therapy access and physical health check for people with mental illness . I be sorry , but this signal a retreat at the very moment we need to advance . I support the vision outline in the Bill , but its success depend entirely on the foundation on which it stand . without adequate investment , even the very good intention will struggle to take root . ensure that people can exercise their right and that staff can support they demand more than legislation ; it demand real resource and sustain commitment from this Government . we need a national effort to rebuild mental health care from the ground up , with early intervention for young people , train professional in school and community , continuity of care and a culture shift that treat mental health with the same urgency and seriousness as physical health . failure be not an option — not for the thousand still wait , not for the staff stretch to their limit , and not for the community leave to pick up the piece . we can and must do well . I rise to support this important Bill . I have be incredibly humble by some of the speech , particularly from the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) and for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) on the Lib Dem Benches , from the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) give his experience , and of course from my hon . friend the Members for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) and for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) . this Bill be incredibly welcome . it be long overdue and deserve the urgency and seriousness it be be give . I have hear from family in my constituency who have wait month and sometimes year for help ; in many case , the waiting list for CAMHS in Southampton exceed two year . recently , I meet grandparent in my constituency who be care for their grandchild , who be recently diagnose with autism . their grandchild be suffer from poor mental health and be unable to attend school , and the family be struggle to access support . I welcome the Government ' s work so far in this area , include the pledge to have a specialist mental health professional in every school , but do my hon . friend agree that a three - year wait for an appointment with CAMHS , as my constituent be face , be completely unacceptable ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point , and I fully agree that the wait face many people be excruciating . I have have constituent come to I in tear because they do not know whether their child will make it to adulthood . the service be just not there , and they be subject to hugely long wait and often inadequate provision . these change be crucial . of course , there be some truly commendable local initiative in Southampton that be make a real difference on the ground . I pay tribute to service such as the Lighthouse , an invaluable out - of - hour mental health support centre for adult in crisis , and no Limits , a brilliant charity that have for many year provide a wide range of health and wellbee support scheme to child and young people across the city . these organisation exemplify the compassion and commitment of professional and volunteer to those who need their service . let we be clear , though : however dedicate those service and the people within they may be , they be operate under immense pressure . demand have outpace capacity , and that be why national action be so urgently need to match that local effort with investment , modernisation and the workforce expansion require to ensure that no one be leave behind . there be two essential pillar upon which real improvement in mental health provision have to be build : the legal framework , which the Bill rightly seek to modernise , and , as colleague from across the Chamber have mention , the funding that underpin the delivery of service . reform the law be a vital step , but without sustained investment in frontline mental health care we risk change the rule without change the reality for patient . in my constituency we have a statistically significant suicide rate ; I have mention several time in this place that I know seven man who have take their own life . do my hon . friend agree that while funding be important , early intervention and preventive care in mental health service be also really good money , well spend ? as a former cabinet member for child ' s service , I have learn through experience that early intervention will always be far well value for money than reactive service , which be obviously very necessary but often come too late . we need both compassionate , up - to - date legislation and the resource to make it meaningful in practice . the Bill will bring our mental health law into the 21st century . as have be mention , the Mental Health Act be as old as the Secretary of State — I be sad to say that both he and the Act be still young than I be — and its provision no long reflect our understanding of mental health or the standard of dignity and agency that we now rightly expect . these reform will put patient voice at the centre . I be pleased that for the first time patient will have great right to make their wish know and to be involve in decision about their own care . no one could make that case more eloquently than my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock . the Bill also rightly recognise the need of child and young people , too many of whom be fall through the crack . one of the major factor affect their mental health be the pervasive presence of social medium . there be grow and compelling evidence that addictive algorithm be lead to increase anxiety , depression and low self - esteem . add to that the impact of cyber - bullying , social comparison and 24 - hour peer pressure and it be little surprise that there be real damage to the mental wellbeing of our young people . in my constituency , we have see two tragic , heartbreake death that be very much about mental health , in which online force lead people to the terrible decision to die by suicide . we must take action both to prevent and to react to poor mental health . the Bill give young people the right to express their view in writing and require professional to take those view seriously . every child deserve support , not silence , and the Bill will take we in the right direction . as I have say , the reform in the Bill be important , but will Ministers confirm that they will be back up by the funding need to deliver sustainable mental health service in England ? I welcome the fact that the Government have commit an additional £ 680 million to mental health service this year . I urge Ministers to get that money out of Whitehall quickly and to the frontline , in Southampton and other place where it be desperately need . I be delighted that we now have a national plan to recruit 8 , 500 new mental health staff , which will include place specialist professional in every school . when I serve as cabinet member for education in Southampton , we be proud to lead the way by introduce mental health support into our local school with a pilot initiative , which have have a clear and positive impact . I be delighted that that successful approach be be adopt on a national scale . I be also delighted that this Labour Government be develop Young Futures hub across the country to provide the early support for which my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) make the case so eloquently , with the aim of keep young people well and , importantly , out of hospital in the first place where possible . we have see the scandal of learn disabled and autistic people be lock in hospital simply because there be nowhere else for they to go . the Bill will end that inappropriate detention and strengthen community - base support . when more people die by suicide than in traffic accident and when patient be leave in police cell simply because there be nowhere safe for they to go , radical change be the only responsible path . we must strive to achieve that change through this Mental Health Bill . it have be humble to be part of this debate and to hear powerful contribution from hon . member who have so much knowledge , in particular the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) and the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) and for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , who make emotive speech . I welcome the Bill and the Government ' s recognition that the current legislation be no long fit for purpose . with over 54 , 000 people detain under the exist Mental Health Act , this be an opportunity to modernise a system that often fail to provide care fairly and effectively . we have hear brutal testimony of that today . although I support the direction of the Bill , one area that need great attention be the impact on young people . we be see a clear and worrying rise in mental health issue among child and teenager , yet the Bill do not fully guarantee they the same right and safeguard as adult . there be still no statutory test for decision - make capacity for under - 16 . without it , many young people could miss out on key right such as choose a responsible nominated person or access the protection around informal admission . current guideline say that child should be place on adult ward only in exceptional case , but that be still happen far too often . in 2022 - 23 , nearly 200 child be admit to an adult psychiatric ward . these environment be not design for they . child who be place there can lose access to education , peer support and age - appropriate care . this must change . it be not only adult ward that be of concern to I but the fact that many child be send to live far away from their home and support structure , even to other town . we must have statutory provision to stop this happening . turn to racial inequality , the data continue to tell a stark story . black people be nearly four time as likely to be detain under the Mental Health Act and seven time more likely to be place under a community treatment order . those order be mean to reduce hospital readmission , but they often do not achieve that aim . instead , they feel indefinite , coercive and difficult to challenge , and many say that they erode the trust between family and healthcare provider . that be why I support either abolish cto altogether or ensure that they be subject to regular independent review with clear criterion . I also support the call to have a person in every trust who be responsible for race equity — someone with authority and visibility to ensure that training , policy and datum be use effectively to address local disparity . we need national accountability too . that be why an annual report by the Secretary of State , break down by protect characteristic , be vital . if we be serious about reduce inequality , we must measure , understand and act on it . finally , on autism and learning disability , I support the decision to remove the ability to detain people without a co - occur mental health condition . however , there be real concern that , without proper support in the community , people may end up be misdiagnose just to fit the criterion for detention , or may be leave without appropriate care altogether . we need a clear , costed plan for support integrate care board and local authority to deliver the care people need in the community . that mean target , proper funding and safeguard to prevent delay and poor outcome . we can not afford a system where a lack of planning result in another decade of delay for this vulnerable group . the Bill be an important step forward , but it be not enough on its own . if we want meaningful change , we need investment , accountability and a strong focus on the right of the people who depend on mental health service every day . we be all responsible for ensure that this legislation do more than just change the law . it must change life . it have be an absolute privilege to listen to contribution from member with real expertise and experience . I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s Mental Health Bill , and I be proud that this vital and , as we have hear , long - overdue Bill will modernise the woefully out - of - date Mental Health Act , which we know be link to racial inequality , poor care for people with learn disability and neurodivergence and which fail to give patient a proper voice . by modernise the Mental Health Act and make it fit for the 21st century , the Government be demonstrate that they have the ambition , compassion and determination to ensure that patient have great choice , autonomy , right and support , and that all patient be treat with dignity and respect throughout their treatment . there be many welcome measure in the Bill , from strengthen patient right to reform the use of involuntary detention and limit the extent to which people with a learn disability can be detain , but to ensure that we tackle the crisis in — and transform the future of — mental health care as a whole , we must go far and build on these reform . nowhere be that need more urgent than in child ' s mental health service where , alongside profound societal change , the damage to the capacity of the state make by the previous Government be most painfully visible , and where the cost of inaction be overwhelming . the relationship between unhealthy online habit among adolescent and poor mental health be well document . the World Health Organisation report last year that " potentially damage social medium use … have be show to lead to depression , bullying , anxiety and poor academic performance " . but those change have occur at the same time as huge reduction in the availability of youth service and other early intervention , the closure of safe community space , which provide access to trust role model , and stark increase in relative child poverty and homelessness . early this month , I launch a constituency survey to hear directly from child and their family to well understand the state of local child ' s mental health service . some of the response paint a bleak and harrowing picture of parent desperately try to get their child the support they need . the initial result of the survey demonstrate that we must focus on two connect area of reform , which I believe must be part of our wide plan to tackle the mental health crisis . first , we must begin with early intervention as a system - wide principle , not an afterthought . under the previous Government , the mental health system often fail to intervene in a timely , consistent and adequate manner . it be widely understand that early mental health challenge can significantly impact a child ' s development , yet service for young child remain insufficient and poorly co - ordinated . for child in their early year and pre - school stage , support be often fragment or entirely lacking . to address the gap , we need a cohesive early intervention strategy that do more to integrate early year health and education . additionally , we must go far by give child access to mental health professional in every primary and secondary school , make support not just accessible but familiar and trustworthy . school be often where issue be first identify , and they must also be where the support start . it be brilliant to hear the announcement on Friday that that will begin to be roll out , but it do need to be accelerate . secondly , we must overhaul how child access specialist care and tackle the systemic barrier create by high threshold and long wait . early intervention work only if there be a function system to refer into , but that system be break . over the last 14 year , service have be hollow out , waiting list have spiral and threshold for access have be push so high that even child in a clear crisis be be turn away . I have hear countless story of child who be self - harm , experience suicidal thought or in deep emotional distress be tell they do not meet the criterion for treatment . family be leave to watch their child deteriorate , terrified , helpless and too often unheard . that be not care ; that be the cost of failure . that be no reflection on the professional deliver the care . my survey show good level of satisfaction , but there simply be not enough of it to meet demand . unless we expand the service capacity and rethink how threshold be apply , the most vulnerable child will continue to fall through the crack , no matter how early their need be identify . early help must lead somewhere . that mean ensure that timely and specialist care be available for those who need it . these two reform be not stand - alone ; they be interdependent . we can not have meaningful early intervention without timely access to specialist care , and for as long as we do not address the root cause of poor mental health — child poverty , hollow out youth service and weak online safety — the problem will continue to get bad . the Bill , along with a wide plan to tackle the mental health crisis , present the opportunity not only to fix what be break but to create something well : a mental health system that be accessible , equitable and fit for the future . I be proud to support the Bill . it be a real pleasure to speak in this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for allow I the opportunity to make a contribution . I shall begin by say that it be essential that we get this right . in his introduction , the Secretary of State outline his case very well , and I welcome his policy , his strategy and his legal way forward here in Westminster . I also believe that that will set a trend for the rest of the region of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and particularly for Northern Ireland . I know that the Minister have direct contact every month with the Health Minister in Northern Ireland , Mike Nesbitt , and that a very constructive dialogue take place between the Secretary of State here and the Minister back home . hopefully , this will allow all the region across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to ensure that we be all on the same page when it come to mental health support and obligation . the Minister and the Labour Government have set a strategy in place that I welcome . mental health have increasingly , and rightly , come to the forefront of our mind . we be now take it on board and teach our child cope mechanism from their early school day , for example with teacher practise breathe exercise with child and help and guide teenager through exam situation . those thing be happen already ; we have come forward in leap and bound . however , this be not a sprint . this be a generational marathon , and we be struggle to make the mile marker . that be why I welcome the whole premise and thrust of the Bill . the " Mental Health in Northern Ireland Fundamental Facts 2023 " report be launch around 18 month ago , and it contain some interesting stat to consider . the wide - range report show that 30 % of people in the most deprived area be likely to have a probable mental illness , compare with 20 % in the least deprived area , and that poverty , particularly child poverty , be a key contributor . it also show that 24 % of child in Northern Ireland be live in poverty . stable housing be also a key driver of wellbee , and almost 70 % of people experience homelessness have a diagnose mental health condition . in my intervention on the Secretary of State early , I welcome his agreement to share the Bill and its recommendation with the Health Minister in Northern Ireland , because I believe that its constructive , helpful recommendation will help we to achieve some of the aspiration and policy of the Government and the Minister here . the report also highlight the association between poor mental health outcome and adverse childhood experience , with 47 . 5 % of young people age 11 to 19 experience at least one adverse childhood experience . young people in the least deprived area be more likely to experience no ace compare with those in the most deprive area . one in five adult and one in eight child in Northern Ireland have a probable mental illness , accord to the report , with rate in adult similar to other region . however , our history of conflict and some 30 year of a terrorist campaign — with terrorist murder and the IRA try to kill Unionists and those who object to their way of life — have repercussion and contribute to more complex mental health difficulty in the population . this be a snapshot of any , and indeed all , of the region in the United Kingdom . we be all face the same difficulty and we all need a more effective solution and support for individual and family . I have have many anxious parent whose child have be refer to child and adolescent mental health service . the waiting list in Northern Ireland have approximately 2 , 100 total wait for a CAMHS assessment , with 1 , 104 — over half of that number — wait for more than nine week . these be child who may be self - harm or have OCD and whose body be feel the effect of obsessive hand washing when stress . these be just some of the thing that young people have to deal with . there be so many thing that affect their education . this be why I welcome the aim of new section 125A , which provide for the making of arrangement for ensure that care , education and treatment review meeting take place for child . education , hope and a future be essential and I welcome this aim . it be all about give hope , and I think every one of we , as an elect representative , want to give hope to our constituent — to the parent and to the child — of a well future . that be why we welcome this positive Bill . I gently question whether the Bill go far enough in its legal obligation for child ' s review on education and health . I look to the Minister for his opinion on whether more should be do to ensure that child and vulnerable adult have a pathway to education and a well health programme , and therefore hope and a well future . we must not have a postcode lottery . indeed , child and vulnerable adult in each region deserve the same right and deserve dedication and service . I hope that while this Bill apply only in England and Wales , it will make change for the good of the entire United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and will put in stone — I use that political term — a focus that all can benefit from . the Minister and the Secretary of State give I a commitment in my intervention . I look forward to the Minister continue his positive thought on how we can all gain because tonight be one of they good night in this House . I have speak many time in this House about mental health because I see the impact of poor mental health every day in Blackpool — in our community , our family and , tragically , our child and young people . today I want to focus the House ' s attention on they . as a mental health advocate and former chairman of an award - win mental health charity in Blackpool , I have witness a grow and urgent need to support our young people . now as the MP for my home town , in the midst of a severe mental health crisis , desperate parent come to I every day ask for help . a mother recently contact I about her 14 - year - old daughter . in just four month , her child attempt to take her own life three time by overdose . the minimal support they have be hard fight for , and it be inconsistent and incohesive . the family be on constant high alert in case their daughter try to take her own life again . as a new parent , I can not comprehend how they must be feel day to day . no family should be leave in that situation , let alone have to fight for the help that should be there from the outset . early this month , I sit down with young people , parent , teacher , community leader and the police to discuss the link between bullying and mental ill health . among the brave young people who share their story be Elsie . she speak about how bully about her appearance begin in primary school and intensify in secondary school . she become anxious and depressed and eventually stop go to school . she be move from top to bottom set , and her academic attainment plummet . she tell I she hate herself , but because she be see as one of the one that be act up , she be punish by the adult around she — she be see as the problem . the real problem be that no one listen , and the painful truth be that her experience be far from unique . when young people speak up about their mental health , our job be first to listen and then to act . that be why this Mental Health Bill matter . it deliver on the Government ' s commitment to modernise the Mental Health Act and give people great autonomy to ensure that everyone be treat with dignity and respect during their care . it strengthen the voice of patient , give statutory weight to their right to be involve in decision about their treatment , increase scrutiny of detention and seek to limit the use of the early Act to detain those with learn disability . the most recent NHS figure show around 135 hospital admission of 10 to 24 - year - old in Blackpool due to self - harm in the year to March 2024 — a sharp rise from about 100 the year before . that be more than double the national average . child in - patient admission for mental health condition in Blackpool be also significantly high than the national average . child in care , care leaver , young carer and those live in poverty be especially vulnerable and too often be the one fail most severely . this inadequacy extend to detention . we know that people live in deprive area be more than three and a half time more likely to be detain under the Mental Health Act than those in more affluent part of the country . that be a staggering and unacceptable disparity and the sad reality for my constituent in Blackpool South . the Bill take a much - need step forward , introduce a 28 - day limit on detain people with a learn disability or autism who do not have co - occur mental health condition . I support the reform , but it can not come into effect until we have sufficient community service , which my community be cry out for . in that context , I welcome the plan to expand community - base support . the Government have commit to walk - in mental health hub in every community , more accessible support worker and a specialist mental health professional in every school — all desperately need in Blackpool . those essential step must be back by funding , urgency and clear timeline , because right now our youth mental health service be stretch beyond capacity . young people in Blackpool and across the country be too often place on adult ward , send far from home or leave to fend for themselves until they reach crisis point . my hon . friend make a powerful point . I have have a stark case in my constituency involve a young woman age 15 with anorexia . sadly , because we do not have the in - patient facility in our area , she be detain and confine to a wheelchair . she do not feel that her wish , or those of her mother , be take into account during her stay . she be eventually place in an in - patient ward out of county . do he agree that one of the Bill ' s strength be that it will give my constituent a voice and a right to have her wish hear ? I completely agree . a family member of mine be recently suffer from a mental health crisis but could not be place in Blackpool and have to go hundred of mile away . that be not acceptable . patient must have a great say and they need more support . mental health charity Mind point out that child be be restrain , ignore and leave to navigate a confusing system alone . that be not a system build on dignity or care . we must strengthen legal safeguard for child and young people . I urge the Government to introduce a statutory framework for assess capacity in under - 16 . without one , their voice be too easily sideline . statutory care and treatment plan should be extend to every young person who receive mental health care . we need strong protection for child place in inappropriate or unsafe setting far from their family and community . in their consideration of these reform , will the Government clarify how they plan to implement the new model of specialised mental health service for child and young people , particularly in the light of the abolition of NHS England ? what specific provision will be include for child and young people in the update service specification and legislative reform ? will the Government commit to a series of sustained reform of the wide system , so that child and young people can access effective early support in their community before they ever reach crisis point ? the Bill can not be see in isolation from the wide challenge face young people ' s mental health . reform the Mental Health Act be crucial , but it must be match by real - world change to service , staff and support on the ground . elsie ' s story of unchecked bullying at school affect her mental health and future prospect matter — as do the thousand of untold story from child across the country . they deserve a system that listen to they , value their voice and respond with the care that they need . they deserve support that meet they wherever they be , not once they have already reach the edge . they deserve the dignity , compassion and care that the Bill aspire to deliver . let we ensure that we do not waste this opportunity . may I say how humble I be to follow such powerful and personal contribution from many hon . member ? I welcome these long - overdue reform of the Mental Health Act . I be extremely proud to be part of a Government who be move so quickly to ensure that people who experience severe mental illness be give more autonomy and choice , be always treat with dignity and respect , and be give enhance right and support under the Bill . mental health be a theme of so many of the conversation that I have — and of the support that I try to provide — in my Aylesbury constituency , whether with Fay , Tyler , AJ and Dhwani , the young people who join my recent work experience programme and devise the fantastic " break the silence " campaign to improve mental health understanding for young adult ; with the resident at Bearbrook Place , which be run by Connection Support and offer support accommodation for adult face homelessness , who tell I that their mental health challenge contribute to they become at risk of homelessness , and that it be their ongoing mental health recovery give they the most confidence that they could live independently again ; or with the people who go along to the fantastic drop - in provide by the Space charity in St Mary ' s church , many of whom experience mental challenge as a result of unexpected life event , health struggle or social isolation . I could go on , but this evening I will focus on how the Bill should improve the experience of pregnant and new mum struggle with severe mental illness . that subject be particularly close to my heart , as I lose one of my good friend , Sophie Middlemiss , to suicide shortly after the birth of her little girl — her third child . I speak to many parent about it , include the fantastic Amy Scullard , who run the PANDAS perinatal mental health group in Aylesbury . in this period of pregnancy and the year after birth , almost one in four people struggle with their mental health . for many people , their experience be relatively mild and they will recover , but some people , often without any prior mental health challenge and without warning , will experience extremely severe mental illness . suicide , tragically , be the lead cause of death for woman in that period from six week to a year after birth . I wish to highlight three aspect of the Bill that will be important for people who experience serious mental illness at that stage of their life , and who will end up fall within the scope of the Bill . first , the fact that patient will be able to choose a " nominated person " to represent they be a vital step forward . it be crucial . I have see at first hand how , at the point at which people be severely unwell , they be unable to make the good decision for themselves . formalise the ability of someone to play that role on their behalf , and with more power to challenge the system , could make a positive difference to their care . secondly , I be pleased that the Bill will make individualised care and treatment plan statutory . every person be different — our attitude to mental health have evolve a huge amount since the Mental Health Act be last update — and ensure that they have a personalise care plan that account for their particular circumstance be crucial . so too be the fact that the Bill create a duty to inform and support patient in make advance choice document before they become ill , from a place of good health . thirdly , I be pleased that the Bill aim to reduce the significant racial inequality that exist under the current Act . those inequality also drive significant difference in perinatal healthcare outcome more broadly . black people be more than three and a half time more likely to be detain under the Mental Health Act than white people , and more than seven time more likely to be place on a community treatment order . that have to change . the Bill introduce measure that should have a positive impact for people from ethnic minority , for example through the introduction of advance choice document , as well as by tighten the criterion for detention and compulsory treatment . I be conscious of the time , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I wish to make a point about the implementation of the Bill . for people experience severe mental illness in the period after birth , mother and baby unit can be a crucial part of their recovery , as well as have significant benefit for the parent - infant relationship . too often , however , whether or not a mum can access one of those unit remain a postcode lottery . I believe we must get to a point where all woman who have give birth within the 12 month prior to compulsory admission be give the option of be admit to a ward where they can remain with their baby . I be so pleased to see the Secretary of State ' s commitment to the mental health investment standard , and all the funding that will be need properly to implement the measure in the Bill . I hope that provision for that group of woman at severe risk of serious mental health illness will be consider . I will conclude by note that for all those who experience milder struggle with their mental health , it be clear that there be a whole lot more we need to do beyond the Bill . I know minister be conscious of that , and a lot of vital work be under way , include more mental health support in school , the recruitment of additional mental health support worker , and the roll - out of family and youth hub . such community provision and service be essential . the Bill be for those people who struggle with the most severe mental illness and require intensive , specialist support . for they , the Bill represent a crucial step forward , and I be proud to support it . I thank all member who have speak so far to share their professional experience , leave I feel very under - qualified to speak on this matter , and those who share their deeply personal contribution . we all know the shocking statistic associate with mental health . indeed , the cost of poor mental health be calculate at £ 300 billion a year in England , and the life expectancy of people with a severe mental illness be around 15 year short than for those without one . I wish to draw member ' attention to man ' s mental health , which be an often neglect and overlook area . man ' s mental ill health frequently go unrecognised or untreated , lead to severe consequence . man face unique challenge and be often less likely to seek help . about 12 . 5 % of man in England have a mental health disorder . only 36 % of NHS referral for psychological therapy be for man , and many man fear judgment for discuss mental health . man can feel pressured to appear strong , lead to shame , fear of judgment and a reluctance to take time off work for mental health reason . to add to that list of mental health disparity , we must add racial inequality , as have be point out by many hon . member . black people in Britain be nearly four time more likely to be sectioned than their white counterpart , and the NHS ' s race watchdog have warn that discrimination be play a part in those high figure . racial discrimination can prevent black and minority ethnic community from access the care they need . we know that black african and caribbean community face particular barrier to access specific mental health service . they be less likely to self - refer to psychological talk therapy and less likely to be refer to such service by their gps . in addition , the racism , racial violence and hate crime that threaten many such community have an additional impact on the mental health of community member , often lead to more severe mental illness , compound by social injustice , discrimination and disadvantage . I recently visit Rochford hospital , a community and mental health unit that serve my constituency , where I see for myself the disparity ; there be a significant number of young black people on the ward — a mix that certainly do not match the make - up of our local area . we know the terrible toll that poor mental health can have , which can wreak havoc on people ' s life . my constituency of Southend West and Leigh lie within Essex , a county that be unfortunately the unwelcome focus of England ' s first public inquiry into mental health death . the Lampard inquiry be investigate 2 , 000 mental health death in Essex between 2000 and 2023 , which be yet another shocking statistic . it aim to examine the failure in care in Essex and hopefully ensure that they be not repeat elsewhere . the inquiry have report that the allege failing be on a deeply shocking scale and the Essex partnership university NHS foundation trust have have to apologise for the harm cause to those affect . the director of the charity Inquest , Deborah Coles , which provide support on state - relate death , tell the inquiry that " many NHS trust be more concerned about their reputation " than about the care that they provide for their patient . she point to an " overuse in restraint " , segregation and seclusion , once again especially with black patient . as we have hear , the Government be commit to drive down poor mental health , and the Bill be among the step they be take . I welcome the measure outline in the Bill , particularly the involvement of patient in decision make throughout their care and the strengthening of their voice . for too long , patient have be ignore . give some of the emerge theme from the Lampard inquiry , I also welcome the measure on increase the scrutiny of detention to ensure that it be use only where necessary and only for as long as necessary , and on the importance of have a nominate person in place . the Secretary of State talk about prevention , and I welcome the other measure that the Government be bring in , such as the first man ' s health strategy , which will also focus on mental health . the most tragic figure be on the terrible toll of people who take their own life as a result of poor mental health . man be disproportionately affect by suicide — the statistic be horrify . of the 6 , 069 register death cause by suicide in 2023 , 75 % be man . Suicide remain the lead cause of death for man under 54 . these be not just statistic : real life be be lose . sadly , I have have personal experience of the trauma cause by male suicide and the devastating impact that it have on the family and friend who be leave behind . in November , my close friend Sam , a bubbly , charismatic , well - like and much - love guy , with a whole future ahead of he , unexpectedly take his own life , two day before his 34th birthday . his loss be still feel by many , and there be so many unanswered question . we must fix this system . I speak today in Sam ' s memory , and in memory of everyone else who have be let down by the level of mental health support available . I never again want to receive a call to say that someone close to I have be lose in this way . we must do well , and I be hopeful that we be start to head in the right direction . I begin by offer my heartfelt thank to everyone who have take part in this debate and offer their professional and powerful personal experience . I say in my maiden speech that we must never be afraid to learn from those around we , and I certainly have learn an awful lot today . I know from experience that poor mental health touch nearly every one of we at some point in our life , but despite that be a widespread experience , it remain deeply personal , and be too often isolate . that be why I wholeheartedly support this Government ' s aim of transform mental health care in this country and finally place mental health on an equal footing with physical health . achieve that will require significant investment in frontline service , a shift towards preventive care and a healthcare system that put the individual need of patient at its heart . I welcome the Government ' s announcement of plan to recruit an additional 8 , 500 mental health staff , and the £ 26 million investment in new mental health crisis centre . however , even where there be the strong frontline service , some individual will always require more intensive , tailor support . we must do all that we can to help those people in their time of crisis . reform of the Mental Health Act 1983 be long overdue . Sir Simon wessely ' s independent review in 2018 make it clear that we must give patient great freedom of choice over their care and treatment , as well as more ownership of it , and involvement and engagement with it . the Bill do just that ; it replace outdated practice , through which patient be treat as passive recipient of care , with one that treat they as active partner in their care . it introduce choice , autonomy and enhanced right and support . patient will be give a voice through personalise care and treatment plan , which will be place on a statutory footing . the plan will include measurable objective for treatment and recovery , with clear pathway towards discharge . they will be review regularly , so that any change in the patient ' s condition or need be promptly address . there be also the welcome use of advance choice document , which will enable patient to record their treatment preference in advance , so that their voice be hear even if they lose the capacity to make decision during a crisis . just as importantly , this Bill recognise the vital role of support network , replace the " near relative " rule with the right to choose a nominate person . that will ensure that no one face the system alone . however , alongside that welcome increase in support , we must ensure strong safeguard , because no one should be detain unless absolutely necessary . that be why I welcome the Bill ' s move to raise the threshold for detention , and to more clearly define what constitute a mental disorder ; that will ensure that detention be always a last resort . additionally , there be vital new protection for people with autism and learning disability , which so many of my hon . friend have speak about so eloquently . the provision end the use of police and prison cell as so - call place of safety be a positive step . the reform of section 136 will ensure that those in crisis receive appropriate care and be not treat like criminal . these reform represent a meaningful change in how we support people at their most vulnerable , and will make a real difference to thousand of life each year . People experience a health crisis deserve dignity , respect and far well treatment than the system provide for they . Society have make great progress in de - stigmatise mental health , and it be time that our law reflect that . through this Bill , we can move close to a modern , compassionate healthcare service . I echo the remark of previous speaker ; it have be a privilege to listen to the depth of personal and professional expertise express in this debate . I do not share that expertise , as I think will become abundantly obvious in a short moment . what do you get if you put a group of man in a room and ask they to talk about mental health ? half of they leave , and the other half run into the corner of the room . I do not know whether that ring true for the man in your life , Madam Deputy Speaker , but when I hear that , it remind I of myself . I hear it from a chap call Graham in Norton in my constituency , rather than from Graham Norton . Graham have set up a man ' s shed in Norton , which be a national scheme . it be a remarkable place where man can come together and talk about mental health , but they do so by engage in other activity . for those who have not be to one , a man ' s shed be just like your shed — it have all the great thing your shed have — but your mate be there as well . in the man ' s shed in Norton , you can make model boat , or make thing use the 3d printer , and it have the most amazing workshop , which include a fantastic pillar drill . it make I think that I need a pillar drill for my workshop , to help my mental health . I meet many man there ; some be bereaved , some be suffer from serious or terminal illness , and other be feel lonely . they give I plenty of tea , and we have a really good chat — a really positive and uplifting chat — and there be a great deal of mickey - taking as well , which you always find when you get a group of man together . that sort of facility be incredibly important for all the reason we have hear about in discussion about man ' s mental health . not least among those , as we have hear a number of time this evening , be the fact that for man of my age , suicide be the most prevalent reason for death . we hear that from my hon . friend the Members for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) and for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) . in my constituency of Stockton North , man wait more than three month over the national average for treatment for mental health condition — as do woman ; in fact , everyone do . some form of talking therapy would really help with many condition , which be why I want to take a moment to talk a bit about psychotherapy . my hon . friend mention man ' s shed . I be delighted to visit the Kirkcaldy man ' s shed in my constituency recently to see the amazing work that the people there do . listen to this debate , I have be strike by the positive change that this Bill will bring , and by the contrast with Scotland . the people I speak to from almost every local service raise the issue of the mental health crisis across Fife , be they from the NHS , charity or the police . NHS Fife have ask for funding from the Scottish Government to sort out our mental health crisis and be tell to not even ask . that be such a contrast with where we be in this place , and I be sure my hon . friend agree that action need to be take in Scotland and in Fife . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . it will not be very long before voter in Scotland have the opportunity to contrast the Scottish Government with what a Labour Government deliver , and hopefully they will chose the latter . I mention psychotherapy . for a profession that have be around since the time of Freud , it be remarkably unregulated ; there be no professional register , no form of legally enforceable complaint , and no way to ensure that someone find guilty of misconduct be stop from practise . in fact , anyone can call themselves a therapist . in 2007 , the previous Labour Government consider some form of regulation for therapist , and I encourage the Government to include such regulation in the Bill ; it would be the ideal place for it . since 2007 , there have be a strong increase in private practice , and in legal case arise from issue to do with psychotherapy . of course , there be also online influencer . Professor Dame Til wyke — an expert in this area — describe they as " sell snake oil " . as my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) mention , that be another reason why we need strong safeguard and regulation of social medium for child . essentially , an unqualified psychotherapist could do harm , but the issue be more likely to be the miss opportunity to do good — perhaps a failure to diagnose a more serious condition or , frankly , a miss chance to save somebody ' s life . regulation be support by the profession . Chloe , a professional , urge I to raise this issue with the Secretary of State ; I be do that now , as he be in his place . this be an opportunity to restore confidence in the profession , and for we all to pick up where the last Labour Government leave off . as I say , half the man in a room will run out of it when mental health be mention . what be the answer to that ? Graham give I the answer : " put a broken lawnmower in the middle of the floor . a big conversation will ensue , and two hour later , all the man will know each other ' s name , and the name of each other ' s family . they ' ll have talk about how they be feel and whether they be do okay . you probably will not have a repaired lawnmower , but you will have lot of suggestion . " there be a good reason for that : man generally be not good speaking face to face , but they can speak shoulder to shoulder . I be delighted to speak about this new Mental Health Bill . it follow up on the Mental Health Act 1983 , which be as old as our Secretary of State , as we hear . what I have hear throughout the debate be that mental health affect we all in some way . it touch all of we , whether personally or through people we know really well . I welcome the great protection under the Bill , especially for people with learn disability . I also welcome early intervention , the stress on out - of - hospital care and the idea of advance choice . People who have repeat psychosis know exactly what they want when they be well . when they become ill , they can become paranoid about their family and their friend , and they be not rational . that be one of the reason why sometimes they need to be detain under the Mental Health Act . if they have an advance choice document , they can at least say what they would like while they be in a normal state of mind . that be important , and I look forward to that measure . I like the fact that police station be be remove as a place of safety . I be concerned about how section 135 and 136 of the Mental Health Act be be use . I notice that there be some scheme in which mental health worker go out with the police and work together with they , and that be crucial . a close relative of mine become extremely unwell , though it be not quite as awful as what happen to the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) . first , they be sectioned in an A & E department , and then no bed could be find for 48 hour for this poor relative of mine . the heroic nurse and consultant have to look after someone who be acutely psychotic . that simply be not be not tolerable in our system . we need to find a place quickly for people who be mentally ill , and we have to make sure that they get the good treatment , so that they can get well quickly , while protect the rest of the NHS . this close relative of mine be move to a bed 140 mile away from her family . we must ensure that we get more sufficient bed and more local provision . I know that will take time , and that mental health provision be not in a good state , but I hope that with this legislation and our new Labour Government , we can change that , so that people do not have to travel out of area for mental health provision . I be impress by the idea of crisis hub . I have work with the Stroud crisis team for many year as a gp , and I have always feel that , give a bit more strength and a bit more resource , they could keep a lot of people out of hospital and from be sectioned , but they need that resource . they also need close work with consultant psychiatrist . one of my constituent wait more than eight hour in a mental health crisis for 111 to get back to they , in which time their mental health deteriorate . previously , they access a dedicated local support line , which give they prompt access to professional support . do the hon . member agree that prompt access to support in a crisis be vital to reduce the need for the great degree of intervention cover by this Bill ? that be certainly true , but we need to be careful , because part of the issue be the resource for mental health , rather than the Mental Health Act . we must not blur the two . the current Government be put 8 , 500 mental health worker into the system , and I be delighted about that . hopefully , it will prevent the wait for mental health assessment that people be have to put up with . I want to say something about " appropriate medical treatment " and " therapeutic benefit " , to which the Bill refer . some 8 . 7 million people in this country be on antidepressant , and about 25 % of those people be try to get off they . the harm that these drug can do include an increase risk of suicide when people be first go on to they and when they be come off they , as we have see in a couple of recent , tragic case . they can also cause fairly long - term sexual dysfunction . I be ask the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency to put proper warning on its leaflet , and I be also ask for a special service to help people come off antidepressant , because do so be extremely difficult and most GPs be not particularly well informed about the good way of do it . it have to be do extremely slowly . my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) talk about ADHD and autism , and what should be do about neurodiversity . I feel that we should be extremely careful in mental health service not to over - medicate people with so - call neurodiversity , and I look forward to speak to my hon . friend about that . I have to nip out of the Chamber for half an hour early , to talk to the head of a neurodiversity taskforce which will report in July . what I think it need to do be bring about a much more supportive service rather than go straight for medication , which be what seem to happen when people be refer to private psychiatric clinic . at present , the level of Ritalin - like substance with which people with ADHD be treat have increase by a factor of 500 % — and , interestingly , that increase have occur in social class 1 rather than social class 5 . there be something here that we need to get a grip on : we need to provide proper service for people with ADHD . I be interested by the comment from the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) about family . when it come to mental health , family be crucial , and I would like to adapt the Bill slightly to make they much more central and responsible . the concept of a family could be extend to certain other people whom a person , when well , could nominate , but family be the crux in a lot of psychiatric care . their input must be value , and they must be involve . this be a very good Bill , and it be about time we have it . I support all its great protection , and I believe that it will reduce the number of compulsory detainment . I thank everyone who have take part in the debate , from the Secretary of State onwards . it have be move and inspire to see the House unite on the need for change . it have be particularly useful for I to benefit from the professional expertise and the personal experience of so many member who have speak . my hon . friend the Member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) , the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , my hon . friend the Members for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) and for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) and the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) have all educate and move I with their experience and knowledge . it have long be know that the Mental Health Act 1983 be not fit for purpose , and I pay tribute to all the work that have be do so far , include the excellent review undertake by Professor Sir Simon wessely , commission by the former Member of Parliament for Maidenhead when she be Prime Minister . I know that the intent of the Bill both to strengthen the voice of patient and add statutory weight to their right to be involve in the planning for their care and to inform their choice about the treatment that they receive be strongly welcome by member on both side of the House . also welcome be the step that the Government have take since the election to start to transform mental health service with new funding — mention by the Secretary of State — and the plan to recruit 8 , 500 new mental health worker . before I deal with the substance of the Bill , may I ask the Minister whether , when he wind up the debate , he will be able to provide some reassurance about the future of the patient and carer race equality framework , which I believe be vital to the achievement of equality of outcome in mental health , and which I believe would be more effective as part of the Bill than simply as guidance ? I know that that be the strongly hold view of many of the expert by experience who have work on PCREF . one thing I know from my time in a previous role , when I help to develop mental health service in Lambeth over two decade , be that a disproportionate number of people from african and caribbean - heritage community be detain under the Mental Health Act , as have be say by other . figure highlight by Mind show that rate of detention for black or black british group be over three time those for the rest of the population . similarly , black or black british group be more than 10 time more likely than white group to be subject to community treatment order . in Lambeth , work with organisation such as Black Thrive — set up by my great former colleague Dr Jacqui Dyer , among other , to radically change mental health service in south London and elsewhere — we show that hear people ' s voice , early intervention , reduce stigma among african - caribbean community , and focus on keep people well via work and training provide by membership organisation , such as Mosaic Clubhouse , can prevent people from become ill and from tragically come into the mental health system for the first time via the criminal justice system . I welcome the change in the Bill and the commitment from the Minister in the other place to improve datum on outcome and on patient ' experience of community treatment order . despite the passing of the Mental Health Units ( Use of Force ) Act 2018 — otherwise know as Seni ' s law — which be bring forward by my right hon . friend the Member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , the use of force in mental health setting remain too frequent , and that must be address as well . prevention work and intervention to address mental health need at the early possible stage be critical , because if someone face mental health problem when they be young , it can hold they back at school , damage their potential and leave they with lifelong consequence . that be why I warmly welcome the work that the Government be do to bring vital service into school so that they can intervene early , support pupil and help prevent condition from become severe . it be really encourage that mental health support team should reach 100 % coverage of pupil by 2029 - 30 — the end of this Parliament . young people in Dartford , where I run a well - support engagement event last month , will absolutely welcome the introduction of Young Futures hub in community in England to deliver support for teenager who be at risk of be draw into crime or face mental health challenge by provide open - access mental health support for child and young people in community . I have see that approach achieve excellent result at the Well Centre , a mental health centre run for young people in Herne Hill as part of Lambeth together ' s care partnership . I very much look forward to see this legislation progress through the House and become law with the support of all Members . I will support it 100 % as it do so . I call the shadow Minister . a rough road be not the same as a collapse bridge . both slow you down , but one stop you entirely . there be a simple distinction that be often miss in the public discourse : the difference between mental wellbeing and mental health . every one of we face challenge that affect our mental wellbeing , such as stress , burnout and grief , but fortunately not all of we experience diagnosable mental health condition . recognise that nuance help we talk more openly and responsibly about what support be need , for whom and where . at the heart of this Bill be the most vulnerable people in our society . tonight we have debate not how Parliament serve the powerful , but how it protect the most vulnerable while uphold freedom , how it safeguard the public without surrender to fear , and how it balance the need for control with the imperative of compassionate care . mental incapacity may dim a person ' s ability to choose , but the law must never let it extinguish their right to matter . reform of mental health law must recognise that protect someone from themselves or other be not carte blanche to own their life , but simply involve borrow the rein for a time to steer the person to recovery , and hand they back when agency be restore and they be fully equip to chart their path once more . we have hear personal testimony in today ' s debate . the hon . member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) talk about her mother be section , the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) talk about his mother be section for schizophrenia , the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) talk about his friend who die of suicide , and the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) talk about his friend who be murder . the hon . member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) speak about her personal experience with OCD and bipolar , the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) talk about her post - natal depression and the suicide of a friend , the hon . member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) talk about his friend Sam who die from suicide , and the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) speak about his close relative who be sectioned for psychosis . it show that this discussion have get to the top of the nation and that it be at the very heart of every part of our community . the hon . member for Winchester talk about the problem of suicide for the profession , particularly doctor , vet and farmer . the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark say that he have have a ride - along three time with the police . I be pleased he be get on so well with the police , but , more importantly , he make the very valid point that that be not a role for the police . the hon . member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) talk about autistic people and learn difficulty , use her specialist ability from her professional aspect as chair of the APPG . my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , whose CV be as long as the Bill itself , talk about compassionate treatment , how to use the legislation and , most importantly , the scope of the power , in essence because of the need to be precise when use such power . the hon . member for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) talk about the importance of support for learn disability and autism . it be really important that this be about community , give that last week be Mental Health Awareness Week , for which the theme be community . the hon . member for Dorking and Horley speak passionately about Fiona ' s campaign for Christopher ' s case , and we will look closely at that amendment in Committee . the hon . member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) be a nurse who also bring his professional experience to this House . he and I both come into this House to try to change the NHS , and while we choose different side , there be clearly passion there . my hon . friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) talk about his experience of improve the system and policy to improve mental health care . the hon . member for Thurrock — a member of the Health Committee , as I be — talk passionately about OCD and bipolar , and how important it be to show that people can achieve whatever they put their mind to , no matter how high the barrier in front of they . the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) tell a passionate and move tale about Declan , and the tragic story , which really help bring to life what can , unfortunately , go on in this country . the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) speak about the high level of suicide in his area , and the importance of make sure that that be identify . the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) talk about the racial discrepancy , which be really important . the key thing be evidence of why that be happen , and to make the legislation effective off the back of that . the hon . member for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) talk , as a mental health care nurse and chair of the APPG , about personalise care , which be so important . that lead I to the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , who also talk about put the patient at the centre . the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) talk about local service such as Lighthouse and no Limits , again show the community support , and the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) talk about the placement of child , at which we will be look very closely in Committee . the hon . member for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) point out the impact that social medium can have on young people ' s mind . the mental wellbeing of this House would not be the same without hear the dulcet tone of the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) from the back Bench . the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) talk about the mental health charity that he have see at first hand and about how people suffer . the hon . member for Aylesbury rightly shine a spotlight on maternal health , which often get miss in this conversation . the hon . member for Southend West and Leigh talk about man ' s mental health — a passion of mine — and he be right to point to the man ' s mental health strategy that the Government be bring forward , and in which I encourage everyone to take part . the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) rightly talk about learn from other , and we have definitely do that in this debate . the hon . member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) talk specifically about the man ' s shed , and I look forward to see his campaign on Labour for lawn mower in its next manifesto . the hon . member for Stroud and I have both see more than a handful of patient with mental health issue in our time , and I love his idea , which I hope will be bring forward , about have management plan already decide by the patient , so that when they be in crisis , that have already be deal with . last but not least , the hon . member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) talk about the accumulative attention across this House that have lead we here today , which be really important . we hear that the first mental health Act be introduce in 1959 , but I be shock — not once , but twice — to find I be the same age as the Mental Health Act 1983 and that I share the same year as the Health Secretary . in 2007 , the previous Labour Government introduce community treatment order and independent mental health advocate , all aim to increase the support for people at risk of be detain and allow patient who have be detain to be discharge to community if certain condition allow . however , valid concern be raise , and member on both side of the House have agree that more need to change . I be pleased that the Bill build on the work of the previous Government , who make significant stride in address the long - stand disparity between physical and mental health . as have be mention , former Prime Minister Baroness May commission the independent wessely review into the 1983 Act . I , too , pay tribute to their work in this journey . his report build on the principle of choice and autonomy , least restriction , therapeutic benefit , and people as individual . the Conservative Government work to create a draft Bill , which as we hear underwent significant scrutiny — we even have member here who be part of it — recognise the need to get it right . much of the wessely report ' s recommendation be here in front of we tonight , build around advance choice document , improve advocacy , reform of community treatment order , and change around autism and learning disability , to name some of the 150 recommendation . on behalf of his Majesty ' s official Opposition , I be pleased to stand here today and say that we support the principle behind the Bill . we will work constructively with the Government to scrutinise and improve it in Committee , and ensure that we pass good legislation that will do what be intend . the Minister understand that progress in principle must become progress in practice , so I would like to jog his memory about some of the question ask by my right hon . friend the Member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) . do the Minister believe there be enough treatment facility , particularly in the community ? be there adequate place of safety for people be detain once police and prison cell be remove ? do the mental health tribunal system have capacity to deal with more case ? and what will happen follow the abolition of NHS England , which commission specialist mental health service ? do he believe in hit the mental health investment standard ? will he commit to do so go forward ? to that end , will he set out a timetable for this House , the service and the public to all work towards , to be hold account to ? there be little great moral burden than decide for someone who can not decide for themselves where care end and control begin . make no mistake , this be what this House be grapple with tonight and throughout the passage of the Bill . involuntary care should never be the first instinct or answer , but a resort to prevent harm to both the individual and those around they . compassionate care , therefore , demand precision . without precision , we simply have sentiment . as his Majesty ' s opposition , we will endeavour to ensure that the Government ' s sentiment become a commitment . it be truly a privilege to be in the Chamber this evening to hear so many move , powerful and thoughtful contribution . it really be Parliament at its good , and it be an honour for I to close the debate . the Bill have be a long time come . patient , practitioner , campaigner and charity have all long await the introduction of this legislation and have play a hugely important role in get the Bill to this point . I would like to put on record my thank on behalf of the Government and pay testament to their commitment to change . I thank member in both this House and the other place , include our brilliant and esteemed colleague Baroness Merron , for all their work . as the Bill start in the other place , it have already be through extensive detailed scrutiny under the eye of peer , many of whom be there when the Act be last revisit in 2007 — I be sure they will enjoy I remind they of that . it be testament to the cross - party consensus that have so far underpin the Bill that the debate be constructive and largely lead to the betterment of the Bill . I trust that this collegiate spirit will now continue in this House , and I thank the Opposition and the Liberal Democrats for the constructive spirit in their approach to this debate . every speech we hear seek to improve process and outcome for patient and their loved one , and there be broad cross - party support for the overall ambition of the Bill . however , some specific issue and query be raise in the course of the debate that need address . many hon . member ask about our implementation plan , rightly state that legislation be only as good as its application . indeed , we know that community service provision be very far from where it need to be — an issue that we intend to address alongside the implementation of the Bill . our first priority after Royal Assent will therefore be to draft and consult on the code of practice . it be essential that we listen both to practitioner and to those with experience of the Act when we draw up the statutory guidance . the review of the Mental Health Act 1983 be very welcome . it start its life close to my constituency with the work of Professor Sir Simon Wessely , who draw on the experience of many resident in south - east London , particularly with regard to his work on racial inequality . as the Minister be talk about the implementation of the Bill , I wonder whether he can reassure my constituent , who want to know that this Bill will do the job of eliminate racial inequality from mental health service , by commit to put the patient and carer race equality framework on the face of the Bill . we be already work to reduce inequality under the Mental Health Act . the patient and carer race equality framework be now a contractual requirement for all provider of NHS - commission care . it will support trust to improve their interaction with racialise and culturally diverse community and improve governance , accountability and leadership on improve experience of care for those community and drive concrete action to reduce racial inequality within mental health service . give that our first priority after Royal Assent will be to draft and consult on the code of practice , it be essential that we listen both to practitioner and to those with experience of the Act when draw up the statutory guidance that support the Act ' s application . we will therefore engage with people with live experience , their family and carer , staff and professional group , commissioner , provider and other to do this . the code will be lay before Parliament before final publication . alongside the code , we will develop secondary legislation that will be lay before Parliament , subject to the parliamentary process as set out in the legislation . we have already publish policy paper that set out more information on some of the delegate power in the Bill and provide an early indication of what we intend to set out in regulation . we recognise the appetite to deliver after year of delay and the importance of parliamentary scrutiny and accountability in this crucial work . we have therefore commit to lay an annual write ministerial statement on progress , so that hon . member will have ample opportunity to hold we to account for progress make and milestone achieve . we have cover a wide range of topic and question this evening , and I will not be able to cover all of they in the time allocate to I . I will therefore limit my comment to two area that have come up repeatedly , namely the implementation plan and the treatment of people with autism and learning disability . I thank the Minister for give way . he be talk , rightly , about the importance of the implementation of legislation . he will be aware that new measure come into force two month ago under the Online Safety Act 2023 , which introduce legal power to remove online content that promote suicide . ahead of this , I write to Ofcom about a platform that be actively promote suicide and suicidal ideation , and have be link to the death of almost 100 young people and adult . the Ofcom chief executive reply to say that Ofcom be open an investigation . do the Minister agree that it need to get on and remove this kind of content across the UK ? of course , we have the Online Safety Act , and there be measure within that legislation that address this issue . however , my hon . friend be absolutely right that it be time to crack on and deal with this deeply troubling issue . I pay tribute to her excellent work , and I hope she will continue to press Ofcom to do the right thing , and to do it rapidly . we know that implementation will take time , as the pre - legislative scrutiny Committee recognise . we estimate that it will take around 10 year to fully implement all Bill ' s measure , due largely to the time need to train specialised workforce group , include second opinion appoint doctor and tribunal judge , and the need to ensure that the right community support be available for people with a learn disability and autistic people . this timeframe necessarily span multiple spending review and multiple Parliaments , so I be limited in the detail I can give today about future spend and timeline . however , we have set out in the impact assessment what we think be require in both time and funding . we expect the process of draft and consult on the code of practice to take at least a year . alongside the code , we will develop secondary legislation , which will be lay before Parliament . we have already publish policy paper , which contain more information on some of the delegate power in the Bill and provide an early indication of what will be set out in regulation . we will then need time to train the exist workforce on the new Act , regulation and code , which will likely be in 2026 and 2027 . although we will commence some clause , such as on supervised discharge , two month after Royal Assent , the first major reform , include clause concern ground for detention — exclude the change to part 2 for people with learn disability and autistic people — and nominate person , be expect to follow the training in mid - 2027 . the timeline for later phase be inevitably less define , but we will expand the workforce and improve community support with the aim of implement the reform increase the frequency of mental health tribunal from 2030 - 31 . these timeline be indicative , and we will iterate the plan as we get more certainty on future funding and wide workforce plan . the other issue that come up a lot be the treatment of people with autism and learn disability . again , implementation should be well plan to ensure that the propose legislative change have the intended effect . the propose change to the detention criterion will be commence only when strong community service be in place so that the alternative to hospital care be robust . member will understand that robust implementation plan be dependent on the final legislation that be pass and on future funding , which be subject to future spending review . however , local system do not need to wait for legislative change to come into force to begin put in place the necessary community service for people with a learn disability and autistic people . there be renew funding in 2025 - 26 within ICB baseline to continue improve community support provision for people with a learn disability and autistic people . we should recognise that the Bill be the result of the independent review commission by the now Baroness May of Maidenhead during her premiership . many important contribution have also come from those with live experience of the Act and their loved one . it take real courage to speak openly about those experience and to channel pain into change . as my right hon . friend the Health Secretary say in his opening speech , the Government have demonstrate their commitment to fund mental health properly , and that commitment have be translate into real , tangible delivery : the £ 150 million multi - year capital investment to improve mental health urgent and emergency care pathway ; 600 new or expand crisis alternative service nationally , include crisis caf é s , safe haven and crisis house , provide an alternative to A & E or psychiatric admission ; £ 26 million in capital investment to open new mental health crisis assessment centre , which aim to provide accessible and responsive care for individual in mental health crisis ; and 8 , 500 more mental health worker . we be also committed to improve early intervention and shift care to the community to support people to live well and thrive . we have commit to improve support for young people , with Young Futures hub , make support worker more accessible to child . we be pilot in England the 24 / 7 neighbourhood mental health centre model , which build on learn from international exemplar . it be a privilege to be lead this transformational legislation through the House . I know that , because it matter so much , many people will have view on what be need to get it right , and I look forward to further debate in that constructive and improve spirit . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . mental Health Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Mental Health Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 26 June 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . Mental Health Bill [ Lords ] ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Mental Health Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation National Security Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft National Security Act 2023 ( Foreign Activities and Foreign Influence Registration Scheme : exemption for Certain Foreign Power Investment Funds , Education , Government Administration and Public Bodies ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 1 April , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft National Security Act 2023 ( Foreign Activities and Foreign Influence Registration Scheme : Publication ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 1 April , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft National Security Act 2023 ( Foreign Activities and Foreign Influence Registration Scheme : specify Persons ) ( Iran ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 1 April , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft National Security Act 2023 ( Foreign Activities and Foreign Influence Registration Scheme : specify Persons ) ( Russia ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 1 April , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Sanctions that the Syria ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 ( SI , 2025 , no . 507 ) , date 23 April 2025 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 24 April , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Pension Fund Clearing Obligation Exemption ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 17 March , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . Petition - Potential closure of the Ladies Walk Centre I rise to present a petition on behalf of the resident of Dudley and Sedgley regard the future of the Ladies Walk centre . it declare that the health and library service provide by the centre be at risk of closure , as no agreement have yet be reach to ensure that the lease for the property do not expire in March 2026 . this facility be a vital community hub and a treasured lifeline for local people access essential care . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to communicate urgently with the owner of the Ladies Walk centre property , Dudley council and the NHS to secure the centre and stop its closure . alongside the petition , which have gather over 300 signature , an online petition have gather over 1 , 300 signature at the time of present . this demonstrate the strength of feeling among the people of Dudley . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Dudley , declare that Ladies Walk Centre , and the health and library service it provide , be at risk of closure because no deal have be do to ensure that the lease for the property do not expire in March 2026 . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to urgently communicate with the owner of the Ladies Walk Centre property , Dudley Council and the NHS , ask that Ladies Walk Centre be save from closure . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003069 ] Petition - Radford Semele Solar Farm I rise to present a petition on behalf of the resident of the little village of Radford Semele . locally , a separate petition have be sign by over 440 resident with regard to the propose development of a 213 acre , 49 . 99 MW solar farm on their doorstep , just outside the village . the petitioner ' concern be about the loss of amenity , footpath and the recreation area , the lack of Government scrutiny for such a large solar farm development , and the use of good and most versatile agricultural land . they be also concerned about the cumulative impact on the local area and the report suspect use of force labour in the developer ' s supply chain . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to review and refuse the application for a solar farm near Radford Semele , Leamington . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Warwick and Leamington , declare that that the propose construction and associate planning application of a 49 . 99 MW solar farm and battery storage facility by Staffordshire Solar 1 Ltd . , on Land to the west of Fosse Way and to the south - east of Radford Semele ( W / 24 / 1404 ) , should not be approve ; note that the measure lay out by GB Energy , to ensure that slavery and human trafficking be not take place in its business or supply chain , should be the same condition apply to this application to prevent the use , supply and involvement of force labour in UK infrastructure project ; acknowledge that the scheme be only 0 . 01 MW below the acceptable tolerance stipulate by the Government ' s 50 MW threshold , which would qualify the project as a nationally significant infrastructure project require great scrutiny ; far declare that the propose site be locate close to a substantial village and would impact on the recreational amenity of the resident ; far declare that the propose site comprise of grade 2 and 3a " good " and " most versatile " agricultural land , which should be protect from such industrial development in accordance with planning regulation ; and note that that government datum suggest that 3 additional solar farm , be either operational or be develop within 2 mile of the site . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to review and refuse the application for a solar farm near Leamington , to consider an alternative location within the nearby area or an onshore wind farm within a few mile , and to ensure that the local community be properly include in the proposal and planning of such energy scheme go forwards . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003071 ] Pubs and Community Funding Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) I be grateful to have the time to debate Government community funding and support for local pub . we be fortunate to have so many amazing pub in Reigate , Redhill , Banstead and our village , and they be far more than just a place to have a pint . they be the heart and soul of our town and village , bring people together and enrich daily life . they provide job and a sense of community , and they even support our local farmer and producer by sell their good . sadly , we have lose many pub in recent year , with ever - increase cost and rise taxis push they to closure . every loss be feel in the community , diminish social cohesion and shrink our local economy . pub contribute more than £ 34 . 4 billion to the UK economy in 2024 and pay more than £ 17 . 4 billion in tax , despite the tight margin they operate on . just as many household have struggle with high energy bill and inflation , so too have pub , which be still feel the residual effect of lockdown during the pandemic and the change in consumer behaviour that come with they . they now face increase employer national insurance contribution and business rate on top of everything else . I commend the hon . Lady , who be quickly make a reputation for herself in the House as an assiduous MP , whether it be in Westminster Hall , Adjournment debate or last Friday — well do to she . every one of her constituent should be proud of all her industrious work here . Strangford and Ards have suffer greatly from the hospitality business downturn . to give one example , the Parlour Bar be build in 1735 — it have be there a long time — but it be under pressure , like Romas and other pub in Newtownards . some 65 % of hospitality business plan to reduce employment level , risk job loss and impact worker income ; 55 % intend to cancel plan investment ; and 26 % will cut trading hour due to the increase in the minimum wage and national insurance contribution . do she agree — I think everyone in the Chamber have the same opinion , and we look to the Minister for a good reply — that the Government and the Minister , with the sympathy and compassion he have for business , need to step up to ensure that those business survive beyond 2025 , and perhaps for another 300 year ? I agree with the hon . member . it be really important that we support our pub . we can not continue the approach of squeeze they until the pip squeak . we will lose they , and once we do , we will never get they back . from next year , the Government will be permanently lower business rate for retail and hospitality business . do the hon . Member agree that it would be good if the Minister confirm that that permanent lowering will be in relation to rate as they currently be rather than pre - covid rate or last year ' s rate ? I thank the hon . Lady for that contribution . I would welcome any clarity from the Minister about that . in redhill , we have an amazing pub call the Garibaldi , which be a community pub — a not - for - profit pub — that give back to the community in so many way . on walk in , you feel the warmth straightaway from Shiv , Juliette and the other volunteer , who be always there to give a welcome with a smile . there be always something go on : quiz , karaoke , bhunny street food — even a book club . my personal favourite be the force fry - up for veteran on a Saturday morning — sometimes I go along to help serve the tea , coffee and toast ; I normally do it quite badly — and the music bingo . out back , there be the community garden , which have be transform with the help of the Garibaldi gardening group volunteer . it be now accessible to everyone , include young adult with special need who visit with YMCA East Surrey . every bit of profit the Garibaldi make get plough back into thing that benefit the community . it be there for the benefit of redhill resident , not for any other reason , and it be extremely good at what it do . that be incredibly clear whenever I visit . People from all walk of life be sit side by side with friend and neighbour enjoy a chat and a drink , all part of make the Garibaldi the special place that it be . I be sorry to interrupt the hon . member ' s flow . the Garibaldi sound like an amazing pub . when she describe how it reinvest its fund , it remind I of the club in my constituency — perhaps club rather than pub be more popular in the north - east . do she agree that many of the thing she have say about the community importance of pub also apply to club such as the Hardwick social club in my constituency ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . absolutely , those thing apply to club and to any premise where we might listen to live music — they apply to so many place . I will focus on pub , but I hope that we will have many other debate on all those other thing . the Garibaldi have stand on Mill Street for 150 year . it have survive two world war , multiple recession and two global pandemic . it have see Redhill transform around it into the modern , bustling town it be today , but it be now at risk if the fund can not be raise to buy the building . rather ironically , the pub be so much more than brick and mortar , but it need to buy the brick and mortar if it be to survive . in previous year , the community ownership fund have provide a great opportunity for community group to acquire community building . it have award more than £ 135 million to 409 project across the UK , include several community pub . sadly , however , the fund be no long available . the new Government have announce their intention to introduce a new right to buy for important community asset . this will no doubt bring many benefit and help to preserve value community building and space . it will empower community to save much - love pub and community hall , rather than just have to accept their loss . however , in order for group to utilise this to the full , I ask the Minister whether they have any plan to introduce a fund to support the purchase of valuable community asset by the community . the Garibaldi be do a sterling job of try to raise the money itself , as I be sure many other group around the country be do , but it would be useful to know if there be any likelihood of new funding on the horizon that it could apply for to supplement its effort . the Garibaldi be such an important part of redhill — we can not imagine redhill without it — so I would be most grateful for any advice and support from the Minister on how we can secure it for future generation . the hon . Lady be absolutely right to say that some sort of community ownership fund be require . do she agree that the company that own the pub that the community be seek to buy need to look after the property ? in Chardstock , the George Inn Continuity Group be try to buy the pub , but the Wellington Pub Company be allow water in through the roof , which be completely unacceptable . do she agree that the pub company that own the pub need to look after they ? obviously I do not know the detail of that specific case , but I agree that we all have a collective responsibility to look after these important community asset . before I bring my comment to a close , I would like to pay tribute to some other fantastic pub in my constituency . I have quite a lot of they . the hon . Member be talk about the resumption of the community ownership fund for pub . would the Minister consider other option , such as the British Business Bank , and look into how other fund could be use for this purpose ? I , too , would be interested in the Minister ' s response to that question . I recently run a campaign to find out which pub be my constituent ' favourite , with the aim of remind they of the pub on their doorstep and the importance of support their local . the response have be phenomenal . it be clear that our pub mean a lot to local people in Reigate , Redhill , Banstead and our village , and I be pleased to say that the result be now in . I be sure the Minister be on the edge of his seat want to know . before I put he out of his misery , I want to let he know that he be very welcome indeed — as be anyone here this evening — to visit for a pint . the winner of good food and drink pub and good pub garden be the Well House Inn , a pub in Mugswell that I know very well . I can personally vouch for the delicious burger , and I have a tendency to make sure I visit around lunchtime . the hon . Member have give an account of all the different pub in her constituency , but these kind of story be happen across the country . in my constituency , we have the Royal Oak pub in Chapel Ash , which do great charitable work . it have the Midland Freewheelers Blood Bikes , who provide a courier service to deliver blood for the NHS . that be all do through volunteer . they be have a charity event next month where motorcyclist , cyclist , runner and walker will support the city and celebrate the park , the street and the people of Wolverhampton . do she agree that our pub be not just place where we eat , drink and have a good time , and that they also do a lot of great charitable work , even support the NHS , which we need so much ? it be indeed impressive what the pub in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be do , and I completely agree that pub be so much more than just place where we buy food and drink . any of we that have pub like those in our constituency be very fortunate . go back to the Well House Inn , the amazing beer garden there be home to St Margaret ' s well , which be reputedly mention in the Domesday Book . those who be lucky may even catch sight of the resident ghost , Harry the monk , while enjoy a quiet pint of ale . the winner of good family pub be the Sportsman in Mogador , another excellent local pub . it be originally a hunting lodge for Henry VIII and be surround by the most beautiful heathland . local resident very much enjoy a hike across the countryside to it with their dog before enjoy a pint . it be also brilliant at support local business through its Christmas market every year . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech , as she do on Friday ; I want to acknowledge that in the House this evening . she talk about the wonderful pub in her constituency of Reigate ; may I mention the Albert , the Westbury Tavern , the Swan , the Boat and Horses , the Bush inn and the Sneyd Arms in Newcastle - under - Lyme ? these be excellent public house that all colleague be most welcome to visit . I congratulate she on secure an excellent Adjournment debate ; we be here to celebrate our pub — in Reigate , Newcastle - under - Lyme , and up and down the country , include in Strangford . today I launch the 2025 good pub in Newcastle - under - Lyme competition . will she join I in encourage all my constituent to vote in that competition , to celebrate the wonderful pub in Newcastle - under - Lyme ? the hon . Member make I feel slightly less guilty for reel off all the pub in my constituency ; now I be not alone in advertise all those amazing pub . I absolutely encourage his constituent to vote in that competition , and to let he know what they love about their pub . I will go back to the winner , as I know member want to know who they be . lastly , and rather appropriately give the subject matter of the debate — I promise this be not a stitch - up ; this be actually what the number say — I be pleased to say that the Garibaldi have win good overall pub and good community pub . I be sure from my speech that member will understand why it be so special , and why so many resident have vote for it , so I will not wax lyrical any far , but I hope the Minister will support I , the volunteer and local resident in try to save this gem for future generation . again , I reiterate my invitation : he should pay a visit when he get a break in his busy schedule . I would love to take he on a pub crawl . perhaps the good invitation he will get all week ! I thank the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure this important debate and for that kind invitation , which I will return to . usually , at 10 . 17 pm , if there be a difficult question about pub , it be whether you can squeeze in one or two more — normally the latter — but today colleague have ask other , more important question , which I look forward to address . the hon . Lady ' s speech also feel a little like a tour of Reigate , which I really enjoy . there be clearly some excellent pub there , so I very much look forward to visit . as the hon . Lady say , there be a long - term trend of community lose important local asset that foster community cohesion . that have a knock - on impact on people ' s satisfaction with the place they live in , and the strength of local community . one of the define feature of this Parliament will likely be how well the Government and Parliament address that . we have to give community agency over a place , and address the sense of decline that feed that anger and loss . we recognise that there be good opportunity for community to take over these asset and operate they successfully for the community . that allow people to continue to benefit from the place that matter most to they , and empower community to shape their area . what well example could there be of a community facility than a pub ? as the hon . Lady say , pub be at the heart of our community , and serve as crucial community asset . they support local economy and provide space for community gathering , and the good pub offer essential service , as we have hear , such as support for vulnerable individual . they foster a sense of community pride and help we tackle loneliness and social isolation . it be clear from the hon . member ' s contribution how passionate she be about support local pub and the industry more generally . as we admirably hear from my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , the good pub competition be a great way of recognise the importance of these asset — in Surrey in the hon . Lady ' s case , and in Newcastle - under - Lyme in my hon . friend ' s case . clearly , the hon . Lady ' s constituent value the competition , too . judge from what she say , it be not a surprise that the Garibaldi be successful , and I congratulate the pub . as and when the good people of Newcastle - under - Lyme confirm the good pub of 2025 , will the Minister come and have a pint ? I will buy the first round . I would not want the inducement to be see as my reason for say yes , although it be an attractive part of the offer . of course , I will happily come . [ interruption . ] I owe the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) a trip to Newtownards , because on the day of the Retail NI high street award , I award the win to Ballymena rather than Newtownards , and have feel a sense of loss ever since . I will also come and join he . I be very grateful to the Minister for his indulgence in give way . it would not be a free pint , because I have a long list of thing that I want he to help I get sort for the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme . I have absolutely no doubt about that ; nor do I doubt that my hon . friend will take on those problem with vigour . the hon . member for Reigate talk about the community ownership fund . I acknowledge the important work that it have do over our time in government and before . as she say , since 2021 , it have award a total of over £ 135 million to 409 project across the UK . in total , the fund have support 52 local pub with £ 13 . 7 million of funding . those pub will bring significant benefit to their community . those number be in the aggregate , but each pub be a community asset retain , add huge value , and bring much joy . let I highlight a couple of pub that we award funding to in the December round . we award £ 300 , 000 to the Rectory in Chesterfield . the funding will secure the future of that vital community pub and social hub . it will also be use to create a wellness space and provide a home for a local community radio station — what a great way to spend public money . similarly , the Swan community project in Tonbridge be award £ 300 , 000 in December to support the purchase of the Swan pub and for start - up and renovation cost . that pub have now be purchase , and will serve as a community hub that reduce isolation and improve social cohesion and wellbee in the rural community . it will also provide work experience opportunity to those in the community . that be a great example of how quite a small amount of public money , in the grand scheme of thing , can have a huge social benefit . I know from colleague that there be considerable interest — I get write question and correspondence on this each week — in what might come next . colleague will know that we have a multi - year spending review inbound , so there be a limit to what I can say , but there will be further announcement relate to community this year , include on the community ownership of asset . however , there be thing that people can use at the moment . I encourage any community group seek funding to preserve their asset , and to continue to use the guidance and tool available from the community ownership fund development support provider on the MyCommunity site . those tool be root in the experience of lot of community asset . some of those community asset be state - fund ; some have be able to secure funding from elsewhere . there be a lot to learn from that , and I encourage community group to do so . I would be very interested in meet the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) to talk about the Garibaldi — perhaps in the Garibaldi , or perhaps , in the interest of business , somewhere else first , although I would be very happy to retire to the Garibaldi afterwards — and what support the Department can give . there be another important community intervention that our Government have introduce : the £ 1 . 5 billion plan for neighbourhood . it will deliver up to £ 20 million of funding and support over the next decade to 75 community across the UK , to kick - start local growth and drive up living standard . the Government have a commitment to work in partnership with resident , business , grassroots campaigner and local authority to deliver the priority of local people and drive renewal . as I have say multiple time from the Dispatch Box , we want less of we and more of local community , because they be the expert . there be already lot of pre - approve intervention in the prospectus that area can take forward to support their local pub . there be support for develop , restore or refurbish local cultural and heritage asset and site , such as pub , include for new use by the community , as well as grant for the development , promotion and upkeep of local tourist attraction . we hear from the hon . Lady a couple of example of historical pub in her community . that be the sort of thing that the plan for neighbourhood money can be spend on . there be also , more broadly , the opportunity to spend funding on wraparound support for local business . that could be use to help upgrade infrastructure to make energy saving — the hon . Lady talk about the challenge of overhead . lot of thing in the plan for neighbourhood could help . more broadly , for community that be not in the plan , we have the community right to buy and high street rental auction . my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) talk about the community right to buy . he seem particularly excited about it , and we fight hard for it to be part of the Labour party manifesto at the last general election . through the english devolution Bill , we will introduce that strong new right to buy for value community asset such as empty shop , pub , and community space . this will empower local people to bring community space back into community ownership , and end the blight of empty premise . I thank the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure this debate , and I join she and my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) in list a couple of great community pub . in Hemel Hempstead , they include the good newcomer pub of the year , the Anchor in Bourne end , and 2025 pub of the year , the Three Blackbirds , which be always good for a labour pub quiz — we like that . I have have the pleasure of hold surgery at the Windmill in Chipperfield , without a pint in hand , I promise . the Green Dragon in Flauden , which I mention in my maiden speech , be a wonderful pub . I want to focus on the point that the Minister make about empty shop , because there be a great initiative in Hemel Hempstead , and a great place call the Hop Tap , which have open up in what be our market square . time have move on , and that space be in some way empty , but the Hop Tap have move in at short notice and create a wonderful craft beer place . it be now look to sell beer online , and from its store , for people to take away . do my hon . friend agree that that be an innovative way to ensure that , in the 21st century , we can have pub that provide what the community need , and that help tackle the issue of empty shop ? that be a great use . the high street be go to change , and the degree to which we can foment such change will be a defining feature of this Parliament . that change will not be a restoration of how thing be 20 or 30 year ago ; it will be about reimagine the space . leisure will be a particularly good use of the space . they could be use by microbrewery , such as — I be go to do it now — the Bulls well in Bulwell , just down the road from my constituency office . I vow I wouldn ' t , but I couldn ' t resist . there will be other place use for leisure purpose more generally . I be very enthusiastic about boutique bingo ; that can bring life to the high street as well . now for a perfect segue : there be a real opportunity for right hon . and hon . colleague here , or those watch online or read this later , in high street rental auction . they be a really good way of do exactly what hon . member suggest . we need new power for local authority to require landlord to rent out persistently vacant commercial unit . the type of entity that we be talk about could fill those space , get their first toe on to the ladder , and develop their business . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder whether you will be able to give we a flavour of the pub in Romsey and Southampton North . we feel sure that that would add to the debate this evening . I thank the hon . member for his point of order , and it would of course be remiss of I not to mention the Grey Hound in Broughton , which be the Romsey and Southampton North pub of the year 2025 . that ' s the spirit , Madam Deputy Speaker . before I finish , colleague have ask about support to reduce overhead , and it be worth note that nearly half of pub have a rateable value of under £ 15 , 000 , which take they out of rate entirely . my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) ask for a confirmation of rate , but I be afraid I can not run ahead of the Chancellor , who will set the rate for 2026 - 27 at the forthcoming Budget in the autumn . for this year , there be a 40 % relief , which I know be very welcome indeed . to conclude , we have see the strength of feeling from colleague this evening , and also have a wonderful insight into the variety of way in which pub touch our community . there be a common theme , which be the huge social value in people from a community , who know their community , come together to tackle challenge and add to that community . we should want as much of that as we can foster , and the Government be keen to support that . question put and agree to . House adjourn .