thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity to make my maiden speech . may I congratulate you on your recent election ? I also congratulate all those who have make maiden speech today , particularly the hon . member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , who speak so passionately about the beauty of his constituency and the childhood experience that he bring to this House . I be honour to have be elect by the people of Thornbury and Yate to be their voice and champion here in Parliament . Ours be a beautiful and hugely varied rural constituency , with the town of Thornbury , Yate and Chipping Sodbury and many village , stretch from Hill , Falfield and Charfield in the north to Bridge Yate , Siston and Wick in the south . to the east be the Cotswold escarpment , part of a designate national landscape . to the west be the severn estuary , a Ramsar wetland of international importance and formerly home to the Aust ferry , make famous by Bob Dylan . there be much worth visit locally , from historic attraction such as Dyrham Park and Acton Court , to the more modern . Bristol Zoo Project carry out important international conservation work , while not far away — I hesitate to mention this , when my leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) might be listen — there be an artificial inland surfing lake call the Wave . there be a real history of innovation locally , although sadly my own parish of Frampton Cotterell ' s claim to the invention of the Stetson hat appear to be little more than an urban legend . however , we can be proud that the pioneer of vaccination , Edward Jenner , start his medical training in Chipping Sodbury . nowadays , many of my constituent work in cut - edge industry in our region , such as aerospace . with a background in math and software engineering , I take a keen interest in see those industry flourish , and I want to ensure that our young people can benefit from the opportunity they bring . my constituency be of course more than its landscape and history ; it be the people who live there and their fantastic community spirit . I see that in my own village during the pandemic , when hundred of volunteer rally to help other . whether it be the big lunch in Chipping Sodbury , the Yate Ageing Better festival , Thornbury carnival or any myriad other event and group , they all contribute to make the constituency a wonderful place to live . I thank my predecessor Luke Hall , who serve Thornbury and Yate for nine year , during which time he champion neonatal care leave and hold post in the Department for Education and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . I wish he and his family all the good for the future . I also thank his predecessor , the former Pensions Minister Sir Steve Webb , who have be a great source of wisdom for I and be fondly remember by many constituent . he set a very high bar for all his successor , and I will do my good to meet it . while I be thank people , I put on record my gratitude to Councillor Maggie Tyrrell , who have recently succeed I as the leader of South Gloucestershire council . I know that the council be in safe hand as I bring that experience to this place . I be grateful for the opportunity to make this speech in this important debate , because if we be to tackle the climate crisis and cut congestion on our road , we must get rail service back on track to give people genuine alternative to get around effectively . there be currently three railway station in my constituency . Yate station be reopen in the 1980 , and we desperately need the propose redevelopment . I will also be seek to ensure that the funding for half - hourly service be extend beyond the current end date of 2026 . that will not only benefit Yate , but provide an hourly train for the new station plan at Charfield . the station at Pilning be a parliamentary station , with just one train run a week to avoid formally close it . its location , near the grow industrial location of Severnside , mean that if properly reopen , it be prime place to help the many worker who travel from south Wales to make the trip without a car . the third station be severn Beach . once a seaside resort , the line now serve commuter . however , commuter can be leave disappoint by flood on the line , as well as the fact that the service be not more frequent . rail campaigner be also keen to see other station reopen , such as Coalpit Heath and Thornbury , but for that to be possible , we need national investment in Westerleigh junction to increase capacity and unlock this potential . I hope that the Secretary of State will commit to make that part of the integrate infrastructure review that be reference early . as my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) say , ultimately passenger be not interested in who run the train ; they simply want they to run on time and for the ticket to be affordable . give the continue squeeze on people ' s finance , we need an immediate freeze on rail fare and our fragmented ticketing system need simplify to cut cost for commuter . we also need to think about integration with other form of public transport . in my constituency , we have see serious cut to local bus service , with many village leave with no regular bus at all . my aim in this place will be to champion the right of people to have affordable and green method of transport , whether they live in rural or urban area . in conclusion , I promise to work tirelessly for my constituent , not only on fix our railway , but on other issue too , such as the fact that our school be among the low fund in the country and that it be almost impossible to register with an NHS dentist locally . I look forward to work constructively with right hon . and hon . member across the House to address these problem and ensure that the people of Thornbury and Yate get the fair deal they deserve . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) . may I say what a pleasure it be to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ? you have make history with your election and you will have inspire many woman and girl across our country . it be wonderful to see a number of my neighbour here , include my hon . friend the Members for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , as well as many hon . friend from across the west midland . I say a special thank you to my former boss , my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , who be sit with I here on the Government Benches , a far cry from when I sit opposite she in her office upstairs . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) , for Smethwick ( Gurinder Josan ) , for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) and for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , all of whom give important , interesting and witty speech , as well as to the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) and for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) . it be a real honour to make my first speech in this House as the Member of Parliament for Newcastle - under - Lyme , and in such an important debate too . I pay tribute to the Secretary of State both for the Bill and for her leadership on these issue . she and I share an interest in Northern Ireland . I be very grateful for all the work she have do to get we to where we be today . I start by acknowledge the deep responsibility I feel to the people who send I here . I thank they for place their trust in I and I will work every day to honour it . my journey to this place start in the former British Empire . my maternal grandfather arrive in the United Kingdom from Jamaica , to serve King and country and to help fight fascism . he dock in Liverpool in 1941 and , after meet my grandmother , build a life in Staffordshire , the county I be proud to represent today . my Dad , who be here in the Gallery , move here from the then Rhodesia , now Zimbabwe , in 1979 and have the luck to meet , and the wisdom to marry , my Mum , a good Staffordshire woman , bear and breed . she be also here in the Gallery . I would not be here without either of they . I stand on the shoulder of my grandparent , Mr and Mrs Bob Owen and Mr and Mrs Adam Jogee . their blood run in my vein . their life story forge my identity and my outlook on the world . the great gift my parent and grandparent have give I be their example of what courage , tolerance , love and diversity mean , not as academic concept but as live experience . that I be stand here today , a Member of the House of Commons on the Government Benches , be not inevitable , but it be possible . my election — the first black man to represent anywhere in the west midland — say so much about who we be in 2024 and what our nation mean . while it be with a sense of sadness that I acknowledge that none of my grandparent be here to witness this speech , I be confident that , if they be , they would all be say to each other what a wonderful country this be . I be proud of my Englishness and my Britishness , and of the simple truth that , in our United Kingdom , you can be anything you want to be with the right support , a work ethic , real opportunity and a good heart . I be not define by my colour , but I be very , very proud of it , and Labour government be key to build the kind of enable environment that mean that success and a good life be available to all . it be that passion for share opportunity that drive I every day . for those who do not make it to campaign with I in the general election — I note that my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , who I know very well , do make several visit , for which I be grateful — Newcastle be an ancient market town in the middle of England . its rich history date back to medieval time , with its market charter grant in 1173 , which mean that last year we celebrate the borough ' s 850th anniversary . the people who live , learn and work in Newcastle - under - Lyme be decent , caring , proud and honest . indeed , when I think of their honesty , I be remind of two particular chat that I have during the campaign . this be semi - dangerous , I suppose , when we start quote our constituent . I meet Steve and his son in Betley — in fact , in the very good Swan pub in Betley . I recommend it to anyone pass through , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , who be very welcome . the first thing Steve say to I be , " you ' re much short than I think you would be in real life . " it be the final chat after a long day of door knock , and my first reaction be , " thank you very much , I think . " I then meet Christine , a pensioner from Wolstanton . she say , " you be much young and well look than you look in your leaflet . you need new leaflet . " I will not share the story about horse ride with my friend Carol Whitehouse in Audley , but suffice it to say , we will all do anything safe and legal to get elect . I be remind in these conversation of the age - old adage that the voter be never wrong . that be a lesson that Conservative party Members — not that there be many here tonight — may want to heed . in my patch , you know where you stand , and if you build trust , show that you care and listen , local people will have your back . we be bless with very fine centre of learn : we be home to Newcastle College and the wonderful Keele University , one of the well high education institution in our country . my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) seek to take credit for it and claim it every day , but it be ours . we have many brilliant school with wonderful teacher , teach assistant and special educational need co - ordinator . I have be honour to visit many of our school over the past 18 month . I will stand up every day to rebuild the support for child and their family with special educational need , because the current situation in Staffordshire , and in Newcastle - under - Lyme in particular , be unacceptable . my constituency boast beautiful park and green space , such as queen ' s Gardens and the victorian Brampton Park , know for its museum , aviary and landscape garden . I be look forward to you visit we , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have Lyme Valley , the old Keele golf course , and much rural , productive green belt in the northern part of my constituency , centre around Audley and Madely . while I completely and unequivocally support our government ' s plan to build more home , we must , at the same time , do as much as we can to protect our green space and deliver the infrastructure that go with any new home . it must be a case of do thing with , not to , people . while some might look north of the Watford Gap and see a cultural desert , I see vibrancy . I be especially proud of the New Vic Theatre , know for its innovative production and meaningful community engagement . we can not talk about North Staffordshire without mention the old mine and pit in Chesterton , Silverdale and Crackley , nor can we avoid talk pottery and ceramic , because our region be home to the age - old pottery industry . I be look forward to work across the a500 and the A34 with my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central , for Stoke - on - Trent South and for Stoke - on - Trent North . my constituency boast of be home to a Prime Minister : the sixth Prime Minister of Australia , Mr Joseph Cook — long dead , but he be bear there . he be bear and raise in the old mining village of Silverdale . I be proud of the fact that a Prime Minister be bear in our patch . the only issue I have with Cook be that he start off in the Labour party and end up a Tory , but nobody — or almost nobody — be beyond redemption . on that basis , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will forgive I for emphasise his passion for aim high when I talk to the young people of Newcastle about he , rather than his move around political party . Newcastle - under - Lyme could not be well place . we be border by the west coast main line and the m6 , between Birmingham and Manchester , not far from Derby and Nottingham and only 90 minute or so from our capital — when Avanti choose to work properly . robust rail infrastructure be a strategic necessity for Newcastle - under - Lyme , for our region and for our United Kingdom . it will stimulate economic growth , bring people together and tear down barrier , and we can do that while at the same time protect our environment and preserve our planet . address the north - south divide in transportation infrastructure be about not just fairness , but maximise the full potential of the north to contribute to a more balanced , prosperous and sustainable future for all of we . that be why I welcome the Bill before we . it show my constituent that we mean it when we say that we would focus on get our nation back on track . I see the Minister for bus , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , on the Front Bench ; I look forward to speak to he about bus soon too . Newcastle - under - Lyme be rich in coal , lead to extensive mining activity for not far off 200 year . the coal industry play a crucial part in the town ' s development and economy . the development of the Trent and Mersey canal in the 18th century enhance transportation link , facilitate the movement of coal and pottery . the canal system be vital for industrial distribution before the advent of our railway . the wonderful Apedale museum and heritage centre provide future generation with a window back to the proud history of our town . I first go when I be about 12 , and it be still go strong . the Apedale Valley railway operate at the same site , add to a great family day out . sadly , though , like most of the west midland and the north , while we be proud of our past , we have not see sufficient focus on build our future by diversify our industry and job . as the historical and traditional industry decline , my constituency transition to a service - orient economy base on education , healthcare and retail . rather than Tory soundbite and gimmick , this new Labour Government have a plan to deliver real change , drive by a mission of national renewal . that be clear from this Bill and from the new deal for work people . let we be clear : under the Tories , work people suffer more than a decade of fall and flatlining pay , while price in the shop go up and energy bill soar . People across Newcastle - under - Lyme still feel the bad effect of the cost of living crisis today . the Tories break our country and we be all still pay the price . labour ' s new deal for work people be a plan to make work pay , ensure security at work and help to provide the work - life balance that everyone deserve . this Bill and an improved rail service will bring connectivity and growth and , set it alongside the new worker ' s deal to ensure that work people can prosper , we will see the power of a Labour Government . clean our air and tackle waste crime be a priority for the people who send I to Parliament . Walleys Quarry landfill be a disgraceful example of the bad excess of profit over people and we will not stand for it any more . it be an environmental crisis and a health one too . that be why I be grateful that my right hon . friend the Environment Secretary today answer my call and those of all member of Newcastle - under - Lyme borough council , and grant the council permission to proceed with legal action against Walleys Quarry Ltd . that be more do in three week than the last three Environment Secretaries do in three year . it require the law to be change , but I know that the Environment Secretary have hear I loud and clear . I be fortunate — I be keep an eye on the clock , Madam Deputy Speaker — to have meet and to know my three immediate predecessor date back to 1986 , Aaron Bell , Paul Farrelly and the noble Baroness Golding . I be grateful to they all for their service to the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme and I wish they and their family very well . I have be lucky to have have wonderful support and advice from some brilliant people since my election and over the year . I want to make a special mention of former Prime Minister Julia Gillard , former t á naiste Joan Burton and a former Member of this House , Lady Hermon , who make my wedding cake — our wedding cake , I should say ; Alison be probably safe at cut it . for I , this be personal . Newcastle - under - Lyme be where my wife Alison and I will raise any family that we be bless with . I want to say how grateful I be to my wife Alison , who have be on this journey with I over the last seven year , on foot , by plane , by bus , in the car and on our railway . I love and admire she and her work as a nurse in our national health service — work that will be strengthen by this Labour Government . I also want to acknowledge the support of my in - law , who be watch these proceeding from Northern Ireland . the last really important speech I give be on my wedding day . memory of that speech be the reason Alison and my family be very pleased indeed that I have an unofficial time limit — although I be push it . my speech as a new husband last 28 minute — [ interruption . ] very short . it be time by my close mate and friend and they have not , to this day , let I forget it ; it take that long due to the appearance of some very happy tear . today be a marginally short speech , and there be no tear , but there be emotion and determination . there be love — love of family and love of country — and a resolute determination to do my utmost to ensure , in Newcastle - under - Lyme and across our United Kingdom , that all family know that in the year ahead , their child will be able to build life of opportunity , community , security , success and hope .