I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to amend the Scotland Act 1998 to transfer the power to legislate for a scottish independence referendum to the Scottish Parliament ; to provide that that power may only be exercise where the scottish public have demonstrate its support for the holding of such a referendum ; to provide that no such referendum may be hold soon than seven year after the previous such referendum ; and for connected purpose . Madam Deputy Speaker , " I ' m stand up for the right of self - determination . I ' m stand up for our territory . I ' m stand up for our people . I ' m stand up for international law . I ' m stand up for all those territory — those small territory and people the world over " . those be the word of then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , recount in her memoir " the Downing Street Years " . she go on to say : " the principle of self - determination have become a fundamental component of international law and be enshrine in the UN Charter " . that principle she speak of — the principle of the self - determination of people — be enshrine in the United Nations charter when Prime Minister Winston Churchill sign the 1941 atlantic charter . any notion that scot freely enter into the Union by an act of self - determination have no credibility whatsoever . in 1707 a majority of scottish parliamentarian may have be persuade , but the people be never consult . the act of Union in 1707 between England and Scotland create the kingdom of Great Britain , establish a single political entity yet preserve the territorial , legal and institutional integrity of each partner country . the UK ' s constitution be not codify in a single document , so the question of whether the act of Union can be unilaterally dissolve by one party be not clear . however , the accept position hitherto be that the Union be a voluntary association of equal partner and that Scotland have an unquestione right of self - determination . Scotland ' s distinct constitutional tradition be well express by Lord Cooper in the case of MacCormick v . Lord Advocate : " the principle of the unlimited sovereignty of Parliament be a distinctively english principle , which have no counterpart in scottish constitutional law " . in the pleading of the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) in her prorogation case to the UK Supreme Court , it be note that the 1707 parliamentary Union between England and Scotland may have create a new state but do not create one nation . in recent year the UK state have steadfastly refuse to acknowledge or honour that principle or the democratic wish of the scottish electorate . accord to the distinguished academic and legal practitioner in international law , Professor Robert McCorquodale , " the people of Scotland be distinct within the UK and have a right to self - determination … and as the people of Scotland be a people for the purpose of the right to self - determination … the choice of the mean to exercise it be for the people to decide and not for the state . " these be not obscure or arcane point of law ; they be precise and purposeful , and accord to Professor McCorquodale such treaty obligation be " bind under international law on all state " . the question of whether the ancient nation of Scotland should be an independent country once again continue to be the subject of much debate . in short , with current support sit at 50 % across the population and above 70 % among young people , the matter be far from settle . it be entirely proper for any country to review such important matter because Scotland will only become independent as and when a majority of the people of Scotland choose that path . this demand the use of a democratic mechanism that be constitutional and satisfy international legal precedent . this Bill seek to standardise and codify such a requirement in line with the motion pass by this House that endorse the principle of the 1989 claim of right and acknowledge the sovereign right of the scottish people to determine the form of government well suit to their need . at that time the claim of right be support by every political party save the Tories . in particular , Liberal Democrat mp such as Ray Michie and Charles Kennedy be forthright in their support for the principle of scottish sovereignty . they be follow a home rule tradition in that party which never for a second dispute Scotland ' s right of self - determination , albeit they think Scotland should choose a form of federalism rather than independence . it would be unfortunate today if , have already desert their historic commitment to the european cause , the Liberal Democrats be to follow that by desert their historic commitment to respect Scotland ' s national right . this morning the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) call this Bill , which favour neither one side nor the other , " divisive and unnecessary " , when it be anything but . it be in fact both liberal and fundamentally democratic . the effect of this Bill should be uncontroversial for every Member . it merely establish in law an equivalent mechanism to the principle already concede by the UK Government in relation to a border poll in Northern Ireland . first , it establish that the power to legislate for a referendum require a democratic mandate from the scottish public to do so . since 2014 that criterion have be meet in successive general election to the Scottish Parliament , most recently in 2021 when a majority of MSPs be elect and a majority of vote be cast in favour of a manifesto commitment to deliver an independence referendum . secondly , the Bill state that no such referendum may be hold any soon than seven year after any previous such referendum . should member of this Chamber deny Scotland her legitimate claim on self - determination , that will put beyond doubt that the voice of the people of Scotland be not welcome in this place and that a new approach must be consider . this Bill offer both remedy and route . it place the power to decide firmly where it belong , in the hand of the people of Scotland , and it do so by transfer the power to hold a referendum on independence to the Scottish Parliament . it be a parallel initiative to that be lead by my Alba party colleague Ash Regan MSP in the Scottish Parliament . Ms Regan have bring forward a draft Bill that will allow for a referendum to be hold to ask the people of Scotland if they think that the Scottish Parliament should have the power to negotiate and legislate for independence . its purpose be to consult the people of Scotland on their opinion on extend the provision of their Parliament to hold such a referendum — a proposition support by the expert legal opinion of Aidan o ' Neill KC . both proposal have at their heart the democratic imperative that Scotland ' s political destiny must be in the hand of the people of Scotland , not in the hand of the Westminster Parliament or the Supreme Court . how do the behaviour of the UK Government or the repeatedly espouse position of the Opposition party constitute access to meaningful political process , as claim in the recent UK Supreme Court judgment ? in the aftermath of the 2014 referendum , the all - party Smith commission agreement be sign by all Scotland ' s main political party — SNP , Labour , Tory and Liberal Democrat — and it state : " it be agree that nothing in this report prevent Scotland become an independent country in the future should the people of Scotland so choose . " while each have fail to deliver on that commitment , this Bill provide a necessarily equitable and democratic mechanism for the people of Scotland . in 1889 in this place the equality of the UK partner country be assert by a Liberal MP , William Ewart Gladstone , when he say that " if I be to suppose a case in which Scotland unanimously , or by a clearly preponderate voice , be to make the demand on the United Parliament to be treat , not only on the same principle , but in the same manner as Ireland , I could not deny the title of Scotland to urge such a claim . " — [ Official Report , 9 April 1889 ; Vol . 335 , c . 101 . ] John Major , when he be Prime Minister , say of Scotland that " no nation could be hold irrevocably in a Union against its will . " it be increasingly apparent that this be not a Union of equal . the UK be wilfully subvert the will of the people of Scotland by deny they their establish human right , as enshrine in the UN charter and in international treaty obligation that the UK state enter freely . I cite the word of Lady Thatcher at the opening of my speech , but she go far : " the Scots , be an historic nation with a proud past . . . have an undoubted right to national self - determination . . . should they determine on independence , no English party or politician would stand in their way , however much we might regret their departure . " whether I like it or loathe it , we be in this Union . I hold that it be incumbent on every MP elect on an independence ticket to explore every option with courage and conviction . today this Chamber face a choice : affirm that this be a voluntary Union of equal or tell the world that Scotland be a mere possession to do with as it wish . this Bill be a necessary condition of secure scottish democracy , and I commend it to the House .