what a pleasure it be to respond to the contribution of my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) this evening . I hope that we will be able to reflect on a huge success in our country . it be a wonderful thing for our community to have cadet . I have see they in my constituency , and they be an important part of the local fabric , support occasion from Remembrance Sunday to Armed Forces Day and beyond . we be lucky to have they . I pay particular tribute to the volunteer who make that possible . so many of our institution have , I be afraid , suffer as a result of the pandemic , and it have be extremely difficult for they to get go again , yet cadet seem to have bounce back and be flourish , and the reason be that there be people who be prepared to give up their time and shoulder a fair amount of inconvenience to serve their community in that way . we all owe they a great deal . the benefit that our cadet programme offer to young people and society as a whole be well known and well rehearse . I agree wholeheartedly that the MOD - sponsor cadet force provide brilliant opportunity for our young people . they have be catalogue by academic from the University of Northampton , to whom I be grateful for their rigorous appraisal , which give scientific objectivity to what we all understand instinctively to be the case , namely that cadet be a force for good . participation in cadet have be show to build character , self - discipline and self - reliance . it improve teamworking , problem solving , leadership and social skill . it provide a boost for physical and mental health — benefit that I be sure my hon . friend will know about from his time as a cadet , which he describe so well . I have to say that my time be not quite as happy as his . I remember join the air cadet briefly . I be tell I be go to fly aircraft . after about two month , it dawn on I that that be not go to happen ; it would be march up and down for as long as I could put up with it , which be not very long . I have to say that I part company from the cadet much soon than my hon . friend , but there it be . I be sure it benefit I on some level . headteacher of school that have establish cadet unit report that their cadet have improve attendance and academic attainment , as well as behaviour and self - confidence . some headteacher use cadet as a central part of their strategy to reduce exclusion . cadet programme be also a gateway to new skill , new qualification , and even employment . they be also a valuable way of make young people aware of the further opportunity available in defence and defence - relate industry , although , as my hon . friend make clear , cadet force be not mean to be recruit tool . as our military footprint have shrink , however , cadet have assume an even more important role in at least provide some sort of presence in many community where otherwise there would be none . they benefit the whole of society by build link between different community , boost social mobility , and strengthen young people ' s resilience to become involve in antisocial behaviour , criminality and even extremism . in short , join the cadet be a springboard to success , as well as be a powerful engine for social mobility and level up . the cadet expansion programme be a joint Ministry of Defence and Department for Education initiative to expand cadet participation in school . it have be a fantastic success since its launch by the then Prime Minister 12 year ago . by March 2015 , ahead of schedule , the Government reach their target of establish 100 new combine cadet force unit in state secondary school in England . in November 2019 , again ahead of schedule , we reach our further target of establish 500 new cadet unit across the United Kingdom . fund with £ 50 million from LIBOR fine , the expansion programme benefit many school in less affluent area . to give renew impetus to the programme , the Government have by this time outline a further aspiration to increase the number of cadet in school unit to 60 , 000 by April 2024 . however , cadet unit require a significant amount of personal commitment from school leader and volunteer , and in spite of success , about 50 of the unit establish since 2012 have fail , often as a result of change to a school ' s leadership or priority . that be a pity , but it in no way detract from the leadership and drive of school team that have advance the cadet programme , to whom I pay tribute . as we approach April 2024 , although cadet number in school have increase by 15 % since April 2020 to more than 54 , 000 , it be clear that covid have have an impact on this as on so much of our national life , and that we will not reach our 60 , 000 aspiration within the challenge timeframe that we set . however , it be not only the direct impact of the pandemic that have slow progress . in addition to cadet activity be halt or limit by covid restriction , participation have be affect by the result change in school priority , with many understandably reorientate themselves from extra - curricular activity to prioritise catch up on lose learning . give this context , the fact that we have already achieve 90 % of our ambition to have 60 , 000 cadet in school be a great credit to every individual and school involve in our expansion programme . we have also make progress on a number of other front to provide the great support for school cadet unit that we can . in the last year , we have develop a Combined Cadet Force engagement and communication framework . we have work with the single - service cadet force to improve the delivery model , and have extend funding for regional school cadet expansion officer . accord to a report produce by academic at the University of Northampton , more than 91 % of headteacher survey consider their cadet unit to be a good investment for their school , and a whopping 98 . 9 % report an improvement in the resilience of participant . Most recent estimate have calculate the cost of participation at £ 836 per cadet , and I call that a fantastic value - for - money investment in their future , our future , and the future of our country . however , member do not have to take my word for it : the academic who conduct the study conclude that " school base cadet unit be deliver excellent value for money " — as well they should , give that the estimate of the Institute for Public Policy Research be that the cost of just one school exclusion be £ 392 , 000 .