Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Criminal Justice System Efficiency : technology what step her Department be take to use technology to improve the efficiency of the criminal justice system . this Government inherit an analogue justice system that have not keep pace with a digital world . technology can and must transform the justice system . since take office , we have expand the use of tagging ; we be pilot new technology to automate manual work in the justice system ; and I have launch a new unit , Justice AI , to far develop the use of artificial intelligence . the recent announcement of 110 , 000 sitting day be welcome , but we need to use technology to streamline our justice system . between 2016 and 2022 , we see a 25 % reduction in case be conclude . what plan do the Government have to use emerge new tech to enhance court processing , get fast justice for victim , and help manage offender in the community , include through ankle tag to enforce exclusion zone , and drug and alcohol testing ? my hon . friend raise an incredibly important point . we need to make sure that the whole justice system , include what happen in our criminal court , be as efficient as it can be . that be why I have commission Sir Brian Leveson to conduct an independent review of the criminal court . he will consider how to improve the court ' efficiency , and we will report on that later in the year . there will be , I believe , a wide role for technology to play in tagging and monitoring of exclusion zone and curfew . I want to make sure that the justice system be in the good possible position to make use of emerge technology , so that we can keep our country safe . the Lord Chancellor will accept that the effective use of electronic tag will not only make the criminal justice system more efficient , but mitigate the need for expensive prison place . do she agree that two thing be necessary for that effective use ? first , the tag must be technically reliable ; secondly , official in her Department must have the commercial capacity to manage the contract efficiently . if she agree , what can be do to improve both those thing ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman raise two incredibly important point . there will be a big role for current , new and emerge technology in the future of our justice system , particularly in expand the range of punishment available to we outside of prison . I want to make sure that we be at the forefront of get the good use of our current technology and emerge tech . he be absolutely right about make sure that any commercial contract be value for money and maintain public confidence . I be ensure that , across the Department , we have expertise available to we , which be why the new unit that I have set up , Justice AI , will be so crucial to our effort . I call the shadow Secretary of State . under the Justice Secretary ' s leadership , her Department let out dozen of dangerous prisoner by mistake last year . now we have uncover that criminal who be let out early by her Department be not monitor for up to eight week , as they be not fit with electronic tag . it be another glaring error . will the Justice Secretary clear up some confusion ? how many criminal do her Department fail to tag ? be any offence commit while these criminal go unmonitored , and who have be hold accountable for this gross incompetence ? I be really concerned for the health of the shadow Justice Secretary , because he appear to have amnesia ; he have forget who be in government just a few short month ago . he appear to have entirely forget that it be the previous Government who let the tagging contract to Serco , which I have inherit . I have make it clear that the delay that we have see be totally unacceptable . although the backlog have be significantly reduce , Serco ' s performance be still not good enough , and although last year ' s backlog of outstanding visit have be substantially reduce — it be down to normal level — I will continue to hold it to account and will not hesitate to impose further financial penalty where necessary . we can all see that the Justice Secretary have no answer to my question . if her Department can not even tag prisoner properly , why should the public have any confidence in her plan to use tag in place of short prison sentence ? the threshold for a prison sentence be already high . often , criminal have commit multiple offence before they be first consider for prison , which be why scrap short sentence will endanger the public and will serve as a green light for criminality . will the Justice Secretary take this opportunity to reassure the public and rule out reduce sentence for burglary , theft or shoplifting ? it be a simple question — yes or no ? the public will know that when the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government leave office , prison be on the point of collapse . they can have confidence that this Government will fix the mess that his party leave behind . we will ensure that prison place be always available for everyone who need to be lock up to keep the public safe . we will expand the range of punishment outside prison and , crucially , we will ensure that those who enter the prison system can be help to turn their back on crime . that be the good strategy for cut crime , and one that his party never choose . Justice Estate : Springhill Road whether she plan to release land own by her Department at Springhill Road to the Springhill Road Residents Association . as the hon . Member will know from his meeting with the Minster for Prisons in the other place , currently there be no plan to release land at Springhill Road . the Ministry of Justice be work closely with local representative to ensure that we bring benefit to the local community as part of the new prison build . I be grateful for the Minister ' s answer , and for the Prisons Minister ' s time last summer . notwithstanding our local opposition to a new prison , it be an absurdity that have be go on for year that the MOJ own the green , the lamppost and the public lighting on the Springhill Road estate adjacent to HMP Spring Hill , even though they be of no use to the MOJ and there be no benefit to the prison estate . the resident ’ association be willing to take those green and care for they , so that kid can play on they and resident can use they . will the Minister look again at get the land transfer , because it be of no benefit to he or his Department ? under the last government , only 500 prison place be create . by contrast , the last Labour Government deliver 27 , 830 . the Lord Chancellor have set out her ambition to deliver 14 , 000 new place by 2031 . almost 1 , 500 of those will be provide by the new prison in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . if he write to I about the specific concern of the resident ’ association , I will be happy to respond . defendant Absconding before trial what step she be take through the criminal justice system to help prevent defendant abscond before their trial . the decision to remand or bail an individual be solely a matter for the independent judiciary . court be require to considered the likelihood of absconding as part of that decision . the court have the power to impose a broad range of robust bail condition in the bail package , include electronic monitoring , exclusion zone and curfew . this Government be commit to ensure that criminal face justice and victim have peace of mind and closure . after the conviction of eight man for a string of horrendous child rape in my constituency , I would like to be able to inform the Secretary of State that all those man be now serve their just punishment . however , two of they abscond from their trial and be believe to be abroad . their exact whereabouts be an open secret in Keighley . it be a shocking failure of the justice system that those man be still walk free . do the Minister agree that if a dual or foreign national be charge with disgusting child rape crime , court should be require to put term on their bail that prevent they from leave the country during their trial , so that they can not walk free after their horrendous , heinous crime ? I understand that the case to which the hon . Gentleman refer take place under the last government , and the man he refer to be try in absentia . the Home Secretary set out the step that the Government be take to tackle the terrible crime of child sexual exploitation and abuse , include group - base child sexual exploitation . through the Crime and Policing Bill , we be legislate to make groom an aggravate factor in the sentencing of child sexual offence , to ensure that it be properly reflect in the sentencing of perpetrator . Court Transcript Costs what step she be take to reduce the cost of court transcript for victim . the Government recognise just how important accessing transcript can be for certain victim . that be why transcript of sentencing remark be available free of charge to the family of victim of fatal road offence , murder and manslaughter . it be also why this Government be run a one - year pilot that offer free sentencing remark to victim of rape and sexual offence . that be due to conclude in May . we be also look in the round at how we lower the cost of obtain a court transcript through increase use of technology . the previous Government launch a pilot scheme to provide free sentencing remark to victim of sexual violence . however , thousand of eligible survivor only find out about it month after it start . poor communication mean that victim miss out on the opportunity for some closure . will the Justice Secretary confirm whether the pilot have be properly evaluate , whether its finding will be make public , and what step will be take to improve awareness and accessibility for those who need to use the scheme ? the hon . member be absolutely right that initially there be not enough uptake . the Government act to drum up awareness of the scheme precisely because we want to test its effectiveness for victim of rape and serious sexual offence . I reassure she that application number be up . we be conduct the evaluation , and once we have the result , we will be able to test whether we can implement the scheme in the future . Knife crime : victim what step her Department be take to help support victim of knife crime through the criminal justice system . the Ministry of Justice provide funding for victim support service to help victim recover from the impact of crime , include knife crime . the Government have commit to the creation of a new programme , Young Futures , which will offer support to child who be at risk of be draw into crime in a more systemic way . do the Minister agree that the support she have outline for the victim of knife crime will continue to be essential in our justice system , and that it be essential to work alongside devolve administration to raise awareness of the tragic impact of knife crime on community across the UK ? community in Glenrothes and Mid Fife feel particularly strongly about knife crime , and about the sale of knife online , follow deeply concern knife offence involve young people . I thank my hon . friend for that really important question . as a Member of Parliament represent a devolved nation , I wholly agree . it be important that we work across the board to tackle this issue , which be not solely about England ; all of we must do well . the Government be take firm action and put in place strong consequence for carry a knife . they be also crack down on the sale of dangerous knife , and have announce Ronan ' s law , a range of measure that will include strict rule for online retailer sell knife . I welcome the step that the Government be take to address knife crime , and anything that can be do to reduce the number of young people who be draw into this type of violence . how will the new offence of possess a knife with violent intent differ from exist legislation relate to possession of an article with a blade or point , or possession of an offensive weapon ? how far will the law go when it come to prove intent ? will it refer only to the posture of the individual when arrest — for example , they may have be catch in the act of a machete - style fight — or will it have regard to other factor , such as someone appear in a scoreboard video on social medium ? I welcome that question . my understanding be that the hon . member be a member of the Crime and Policing Bill Committee that will be scrutinise the legislation . indicate dissent . be he not ? I will welcome engagement with he , though , and his scrutiny as the legislation progress through the House . the Government be increase penalty for illegal sale of knife , and be fund a new online police co - ordination hub , which will take action against illegal knife and weapon content online . we also intend to consult later this year on the registration scheme for the online selling of knife . a lot of work be be do in this space , and I look forward to engage with he far on it . violence against Women and girl what step her Department be take to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department be take to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step her Department be take to help tackle violence against woman and girl . first , I want to acknowledge something horrific that happen in my constituency over the weekend . in Talbot Green , my constituent Joanne Penney be tragically shoot and kill on Sunday night . I pay tribute to the police , who take swift action , and my thought be of course with the victim , her friend and her family . she will be mourn by our whole community . her loss have be deeply feel . the Government have make an unprecedented commitment to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . that be underpin by our new strategy , which will be publish shortly . we have introduce new offence of create deepfake intimate image and take intimate image without consent . we have also launch a new domestic abuse protection order in select area , include in Cleveland just last week , and we be determined to do more . I be sure that the thought of the whole House be with the Minister ' s constituent Joanne , and I be sorry for that loss . the scale of violence against woman and girl in my constituency of Leeds North West and across the country be intolerable . our manifesto commitment to halve violence against woman and girl by the end of the decade , which the Minister mention , be much need and ambitious . how will her Department contribute to deliver this critical commitment ? specifically , what step do her Department plan to take to reduce the backlog of domestic violence case , and to support victim of domestic abuse ? the Government be determined to meet our ambitious target of halve violence against woman and girl over the course of a decade . I proudly co - chair our cross - Government working group with the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , to look at how we can bring every Government Department to the table . this issue be not just for the Ministry of Justice or Home Office to tackle ; the onus be on all of we — every Department and all of society — to do well if we be to reach the target . we have fund a record number of Crown court sit day to hit the backlog and tackle it head - on . the majority of domestic abuse case be hear in the magistrate court , and we be determined to do more to reach vulnerable victim . may I thank the Minister for her answer , and also extend my thought to Joanne ' s family and friend ? in recent year , woman and girl have increasingly express distrust in the ability of the justice system to resolve case of violence and sexual harassment , as so few of those event result in prosecution . what step be the Minister take to restore trust in the justice system , so that my constituent in Erewash know that they have somewhere to turn when they be target by such hate crime ? as part of this Government ' s safe street mission , we have commit to improve confidence in the police and the criminal justice system . we will introduce specialist rape and sexual offence team in every police force , as well as domestic abuse expert in 999 control room . we will also give victim of adult rape access to an independent legal adviser to help they understand and uphold their right from day one . I want every victim , whether in Erewash or in Pontypridd , to know that they be hear , and that this government support they . may I associate myself with colleague ' comment about the tragic event in the Minister ' s constituency ? back in 2021 , a young woman in my constituency be the victim of an alleged assault . even now , in 2025 , she advise that there have be no trial , and she worry that she could run into the accuse around town . what can be do to expedite such case in which violence be allege , to well protect our citizen and ensure that our street be safe from crime ? the Government be commit to bear down on the caseload and bring wait time down for victim . since July , we have put more funding into Crown court , so that they will have their great capacity ever , and we have double magistrate ' sentence power to free up time for the Crown court , so that they can hear the most serious case . we have also commission Sir Brian Leveson to recommend once - in - a - generation reform to our criminal court , and we look forward to receive his report in the spring . I recently meet a distressed constituent who escape a very abusive marriage , only for the court to order a financial settlement that allow her ex - husband to still exert financial control over she . I be shock to discover that the financial remedy court rely on outdated legislation — the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 , which do not allow domestic abuse to be take into consideration in a settlement . what consideration have the Minister give to the Law Commission ' s recent scoping report on the issue , which recommend significant reform ? this Government be determined to tackle all form of abuse , include financial abuse . I be aware of the report that the hon . Lady mention . we be consider the finding closely , and will report back soon . I go to visit a lady in Ashfield who have be beat black and blue and then lock in a cupboard by her boyfriend . he be arrest and she make a statement , but because of his control behaviour in the relationship — he be in control of the finance and be also her employer — she have he back . when she finally have the courage to kick he out , the police would not prosecute the man . what can this Government do to ensure that woman who be victim of these animal can go to the police at any time , even when their partner have go ? I apologise for the horrific circumstance that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent find herself in ; that be intolerable , and no victim in our country — no woman or girl — should ever feel that way . if he want to write to I with the specific of the case , I will gladly look into it more closely . this Government be determined to restore faith and justice in the criminal justice system as a whole : in police , our court , our probation service — every element of it , from the bottom up and the top down . I look forward to hear more from the hon . gentleman on that case . the impact of Crown court delay on victim , victim ' service and the wide criminal justice system be troubling to many . one of many affected Wokingham resident be a survivor of domestic violence and sexual assault that begin three decade ago . she have have numerous court hearing adjourn . will the Minister tell my constituent how these injustice will be end ? this Government inherit a justice system in crisis , with record Crown court caseload that continue to rise . that have have an impact on far too many victim , include the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . since July , we have put more funding into Crown court , so that they will have their great capacity ever , and we have double magistrate ' sentence power , so that Crown court can focus specifically on serious crime . we be committed to bear down on that caseload and bring wait time down , while also protect victim ' funding and introduce domestic abuse protection order to protect victim in pilot area . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I start by associate myself with the comment make at the beginning in relation to Joanne . so many victim and survivor rely on the victim contact scheme to know when their abuser be be release from prison or move to an open prison and to have input into the kind of condition that should exist when they be release . however , the system that we have inherit from the last Government be such that only survivor whose abuser have be convict for more than 12 month qualify for the scheme . in the upcoming Victims , Courts and Public Protection Bill , will the Minister commit to scrap that threshold so that all victim and survivor can qualify for the scheme ? we be look carefully at the victim notification scheme as part of any forthcoming legislation , to ensure that victim ' right be take into full consideration and that victim be aware of the situation if that be deem appropriate . I look forward to work with they closely , and I have no doubt about how we should develop the good and strong possible law to support the victim of all crime in our country . Prison Leavers : resettlement if she will make an assessment of the potential merit of ensure that all prison leaver receive resettlement support from mentor . the Ministry of Justice recognise the benefit of mentor in resettlement and be currently review our approach to peer mentoring to make sure it be consistent and effective . there be many excellent organisation deliver a range of peer - lead rehabilitation support , include Ingeus , Wizer and the Wise Group . at my surgery a couple of week ago , I have two fantastic volunteer show up from Sutton Night Watch , a local homeless charity . they have be work with prisoner , both before and after they leave their cell , to help they reintegrate into the community . they be do fantastic work , but they now need to expand . they need more space and more people . can the Minister explain what support be available to volunteer like they to help they to do their work with prisoner ? I applaud the work that the hon . member describe . it be certainly the sort of work that need to continue . overall , the level of homelessness and rough sleeping that we have inherit be far too high . we be work closely with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to develop a long - term strategy to put we back on track to end homelessness . if he wish to write to I about that particular case , I will follow it up . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . as part of the Justice Committee ' s work on rehabilitation , I have come across some excellent project on prevent reoffende , such as Revolving Doors , Peer Support and Key4Life , that use reform ex - offender as mentor . on a visit to Wormwood Scrubs prison last month , I see the Right course restaurant , which get almost 60 % of its trainee into employment on release . what be the Government do to support and expand successful rehabilitation project like these ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his identification of these very good action that be go on within the prison estate . the Prison Service be keen to encourage all this sort of activity , and I will follow this up with my hon . friend directly . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the effort to help prison leaver to reintegrate , but I be concerned that this Government will soon be keep people out of prison who should be there as part of their proper punishment for offend . the Government commission a sentencing review run on that very premise , and that review recently release its interim report . can the Minister point to anywhere in that entire 65 - page report that have anything to say about the evidence of what victim want ? the sentencing review ' s interim report describe the situation at the moment , and it be the first stage of that independent review ' s address this long - stand issue . frankly , this be something that the Conservatives spend the last 14 year avoid tackle . that be — [ interruption . ] I will leave it there . the House will have hear very starkly that the Minister do not offer I any clarity . I can help he by tell he that there be not one word anywhere on the expectation of victim of crime and their family — [ interruption . ] not one word . bad than that , it cherry - pick evidence from report to support a narrative that an ill - inform public do not know what they want and do not understand . do the Minister agree that for that review to have any credibility whatsoever , it must engage seriously with what victim and the public want when it come to the use of prison for the punishment of serious offender ? we hear fully the commitment from the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and the Lord Chancellor that victim be front and centre of our approach to fix the mess that the Conservatives leave we . there be a victim representative on the panel , as the hon . member well know . victim be fully involve and engage in this . I have sadly meet too many victim in this role , and I have encourage all of they to contribute to the report and commit to they that they will be fully involve in the implementation of the report . instead of carp from the sideline try to get cheap soundbite , it be about time the Conservatives roll their sleeve up and try to help we sort out their mess . Domestic Violence Court case : Backlog what step her Department plan to take to reduce the backlog of domestic violence case . the judiciary prioritise case involve vulnerable victim and witness , which include those involve domestic abuse . Most domestic abuse case be hear in magistrate court , where case tend to be hear more quickly . as I have already state , the Government have take action to address the outstanding caseload in the Crown court , fund record level of sit day in the upcoming financial year . the backlog in the court system harm effort to instil confidence in woman persist with domestic violence charge against their abuser . violence against woman and girl be a national scandal , and femicide be ongoing , with countless woman lose their life to male violence . sadly , my region of Merseyside be now the second high region in the country for femicide . do the Department agree that any move to fast - track case via the criminal or civil court to remove abuser from our street must involve appropriately severe sentence , irrespective of the prison place crisis ? I thank my hon . friend for that important and timely question . we take all form of homicide extremely seriously , and our strategy , which will be publish later this week , look at tackle violence against woman and girl will cover all form of violence and abuse that disproportionately impact woman , include femicide . we will of course prioritise tackle violence against woman and girl , which be why we have fund record number of Crown court sitting day . we be extend the power of the Victims ' Commissioner and strengthen the victim code . we have protect funding for victim service look at domestic abuse , rape and sexual offence to ensure that victim be listen to and be put at the heart of the criminal justice system . for last week ' s International Women ' s Day , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) read out the name of the 96 woman who be kill in the last year . I be always conscious of the loss of life , as I know the Minister be . if domestic violence today be the violence against woman and murder tomorrow , what can be do to support woman and their child ? we be do everything we can to support woman and their child . we have declare this a national emergency , and we have that ambition of target and halve violence against woman and girl over the course of a decade . my personal ambition be that the name read out at this Dispatch Box next year be far few than the one read out this year . prison : Illegal Drug Use what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of trend in the level of illegal drug use in prison . this Government inherit prison in crisis : overcrowded , violent and rife with drug . if we be to have regime that reduce reoffende and cut crime , we have to crack down on drug in prison . to do so , we must address the supply of drug , and prison use a range of tactic , include x - ray body scanner and baggage scanner . we must also tackle demand . over 80 of our prison now have drug - free wing . before 2021 , less than 1 % of seize substance contain anabolic steroid . in 2023 , it be 10 % , with anabolic steroid be the third most prevalent drug class detect in scottish prison . will the Lord Chancellor meet I and Dr Jayasena and Dr Grant , who be national lead on the topic from Imperial College , to look at conduct research into the impact of steroid on offend and the prison population ? I pay tribute to the hon . member for his long record of campaign on this particular issue . it be an important point , and I will ensure that he can meet the Prisons Minister and look at what further research might be need in this area . female offender what step her Department be take to support female offender . the Government ' s plan to support woman offender be clear and ambitious . to reduce the number of woman go to prison , our new woman ' s justice board will support the implementation of the plan . this Government have take immediate action to ensure that girl will never again be hold in youth offender institution follow the publication last week of Susannah Hancock ' s review into girl in the youth estate . self - harm in prison be now at the high rate ever record . in woman ' s prison , the rate be eight time high than in man ' s prison — shockingly , one in three female prisoner have self - harmed . do my hon . friend share my deep concern about those figure , and what be the Department do to tackle that issue effectively ? I certainly share my hon . friend ' s deep concern about that issue , which she be right to raise . good relationship between staff and prisoner be essential in our effort to identify and manage the risk of suicide and self - harm . we be provide specialist support to establishment roll out tailor investment , include specialised training for new officer , recruit psychologist to support woman , and pilot a compassion - focus therapy group design for woman . Independent Sentencing Review : Interim Report what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of the independent sentencing review ' s interim report , publish on 18 February 2025 . I will not pre - empt the final report of the sentencing review , but let we remember the crisis that we be deal with . the previous Government ramp up sentence but add just 500 cell throughout the entire time they be in office . just today , we have hear example of member who do not want any prison building in their area . this government will build 14 , 000 new prison place , but even that will not be enough to get we out of the mess leave by the previous Administration . that be why I have ask the independent sentencing review to recommend sentencing policy that will ensure that we never again run out of space . the Government will consider alternative to prison and early release , but how be the public to have any confidence whatsoever when the Government release prisoner early and leave they to roam the street for eight week before fix tag ? as I say in answer to an early question , we be hold Serco to account , and we ensure that the tagging backlog from the change to SDS40 — standard determinate sentence — be clear as quickly as possible . we have levy financial penalty against that company . we continue to monitor performance and will not hesitate to take further action if we need to . conservative Members have to wake up to the reality of their own track record in government : they fail to build the prison place that we need to keep up with the sentence that they keep impose , which have leave we with an almighty mess to clear up . we be get on with the job . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the independent sentencing review and the Justice Secretary have be take inspiration from Texas when it come to reform our criminal justice system . she might be aware that Texas have a dedicated set of domestic abuse aggravate offence to help protect and respect survivor . will she support I and Liberal Democrat colleague in introduce proposal to the Crime and Policing Bill in order to make similar change to the law in England and Wales ? I have not yet see the hon . Gentleman ' s proposal , which may be on their way , but I will look at they carefully . he will know that the picture be complex . even jurisdiction with a catch - all domestic abuse offence face issue ensure that it keep up with the type of behaviour that they be try to stamp out , and that other offence do not fall off , so there be technical issue in how such law work in practice . I would be happy to have further such conversation with he . I know this matter be of great interest to he and to Members across the House . intimate Image Abuse what step her Department be take to help tackle intimate image abuse . we be determined to keep victim safe both offline and online . in the Crime and Policing Bill , we have introduce offence to tackle the taking or recording of intimate image without consent , and in the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill we be criminalise create or ask someone to create deepfake intimate image without consent . together with exist offence on share intimate image , those measure give law enforcement a comprehensive package to tackle all aspect of that degrading and abusive behaviour . I pay tribute to the Minister for the work be do . although that work be welcome , we need to direct our attention towards ensure that police have the necessary technical tool to investigate report . will she meet I to discuss what further action can be take to address and prevent intimate image abuse in all our community ? I will happily meet my hon . friend , but let I reassure he : we be launch within police our national centre for violence against woman and girl and public protection — that include a £ 2 million funding settlement to target violence against woman and girl well , include online — and in November , we launch our domestic abuse protection order in select area to improve protection for victim of all kind of domestic abuse , include online . the police be also able to use stalk protection order to protect victim of online abuse . Prison Capacity what step her Department be take to increase prison capacity . this Government inherit a prison system on the verge of collapse . under the last government , in 14 year only 500 prison place be produce . under the last Labour Government , there be a net increase of 27 , 830 prison place in 13 year . we be redouble our effort to match that number . the prison capacity crisis that this Government inherit have result in persistent offender not feel the deterrent effect of a custody option be realistically available . can the Minister tell we how this Government ' s prison building plan will restore a level of deterrence to the system and ensure that capacity be available in time to remove active offender from the street ? where they be block , we be build , build , building . HMP Millsike , the UK ' s first all - electric prison , will open in just a few week and deliver 1 , 500 place . just last week , the Prisons Minister in the other place attend a groundbreaking at HMP Highpoint , and we have already secure full planning permission for a new prison in Leicestershire and outline planning permission for a new prison in Buckinghamshire . we be get on with the job . the Minister will know that the increase in prisoner number be often because of the logjam within the Crown court system , and there be too many on remand who be then convict and release with time serve , with no opportunity for rehabilitation or mentoring . will he confirm that that form part of the sentencing review or the Leveson review ? that be why we be do this big system relook . the right hon . member be right to draw attention to this . we be go to tackle it and sort it out . prison : Urgent Notifications what support she have provide to prison that have receive an urgent notification since July 2024 . I thank the hon . member for draw attention to the terrible legacy we inherit from the previous Government . the Prisons Minister in the other place have personally visit three of the prison that have recently receive urgent notification — Wandsworth , Winchester and Manchester — and plan to visit the fourth as soon as possible . he have strengthen the UN process and meet regularly with governor and senior official to challenge they and assure himself that sufficient progress be be make . I thank the Minister for that answer . prison officer do an important job , and I thank every officer at Downview Prison in Banstead . it be extremely concern that the number of assault on staff at Downview more than double between 2023 and 2024 . what step be he take to ensure that officer be protect in their day - to - day job ? as the hon . Member rightly say , prison officer do an outstanding job . the work of the Prison Service be to make sure they be properly support and protect in that role , and that be what be go on . Court Backlogs what step she be take to tackle backlog in the court . the last Government leave a mess in every single corner of our justice system — our criminal court and our civil court . in the process , they let down not just victim of crime but business , employee , employer and child in care ; every part of our system be leave in a complete mess . that be what we be sort out , with record Crown court sitting day — a commitment of 110 , 000 sitting day — and run almost to a maximum across all jurisdiction to bring down the backlog . we be sort out the mess that we be leave with . I agree with the Minister ' s assessment of the previous Conservative Government . however , with more than 382 , 000 case still in the backlog for magistrate , have the Government do an assessment of whether that will increase , give the double sentencing power that have be pass down to those court ? the magistrate court be be run in a sustainable way . we extend the sentencing power in order to free up capacity in the Crown court , and that have be sustainable , and we be increase capacity in our magistracy by recruit an additional 2 , 000 magistrate from diverse background every year . but that be why we be look at system reform , whether in the magistrate court or the Crown court . we be go to need once - in - a - generation reform , and when Sir Brian Leveson report back , that be what we will get . shockingly , just 4 % of rape and sexual offence report to derbyshire police in the last year result in a charge . when offender be not prosecute , victim understandably lose faith in our justice system . what step have the Minister take to reduce backlog in Derbyshire court so that justice can be serve for these despicable crime ? I be sorry to hear how long victim in my hon . friend ' s constituency be wait . that be why we be take urgent action to bear down on the Crown court backlog , not only by increase sitting day this year , but by commit to record number of sit day next year . of course that will not be sufficient to bring down the backlog and deliver swifter justice for victim , and that be why we need to hear from Sir Brian Leveson and implement reform in due course . Crown Court Backlog what step her Department be take to reduce the Crown court backlog . this government be fund a record 110 , 000 Crown court sitting day , which be 4 , 000 more than the previous Government fund . to bring down the backlog we must embrace reform , and that be why I have launch an independent review into the efficiency of the criminal court , lead by Sir Brian Leveson . this government will deliver swifter justice for victim . in 2016 , 120 , 000 case be dispose of — conclude — in the Crown court . that figure be never achieve again by the conservative party , and by 2022 the figure be 17 % low . conservative member like to blame covid for everything , but there be problem in the system well before that . there have be a systematic failure to modernise process in our court for year , as we on the Justice Committee hear far too often . what more can we do to use technology to make our court more efficient and , most importantly , ensure fast outcome for victim ? my hon . friend be right to note the issue of fall disposal — in layman ' s term , the number of case that be complete . the rate of disposal have indeed fall in recent year , which why I have ask Sir Brian Leveson , as part of his review , to consider how we improve the efficiency of our court , include further technical or AI - relate reform that might assist case to move more quickly through the system . we will need a three - pronged approach : more funding , which I have already deliver ; once - in - a - generation reform , which Sir Brian Leveson be look at ; and go far and fast on productivity and efficiency in the system . that be how we will get swifter justice for victim . the backlog in our criminal justice system mean that offender in my constituency be free to commit crime while wait for the judicial process . I meet Sussex police and resident last week and hear how the backlog be make the already hard job of the police even hard , and resident ' live a misery . how do the Secretary of State plan on tackle those backlog , which be lead to offender roam free and more crime be commit ? we be already tackle those issue , and as soon I come into office I increase the number of sit day by 2 , 500 on what I inherit from the previous Administration . I have increase the sentencing power of magistrate court , and increase funding for legal aid . criminal legal aid underpin the whole system , and for the next financial year we be fund a record 110 , 000 Crown court sitting day . that , combine with once - in - a - generation reform of the court to deal with the demand come into the system , and go far on productivity and efficiency , be how we will deal with the problem that the hon . Member rightly note . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the Government inherit prison on the point of collapse and a record and rise backlog in our court . eight month into office , the work of restore justice in this country be well under way . since the last Justice question , I have announce record investment in our court , and next year Crown court will sit for up to 110 , 000 day , which be the high allocation in record history . I have also announce vital reform to the probation service , increase its focus on medium and high - risk offender , alongside recruit 1 , 300 new probation officer . I also visit Texas , where a tough and smart approach have reduce reoffende , cut crime to its low level in the US since the 1960 , and bring its prison population under control . there be much that we will learn from that law and order state , particularly how we get offender to turn their back on a life of crime . through our plan for change , the Government be deliver swifter justice , use punishment to cut crime , and make our street safe . on average , more than 130 people every week across the UK die from drug - relate cause . that be more than 6 , 500 family and home devaste each year by that tragic loss of life , include more than 200 in Northern Ireland alone . will the Secretary of State commit to work with each of the devolved Administrations to prioritise prevention and review enforcement against the use of all illegal substance ? the hon . Gentleman make an incredibly important point . fix the problem that he note require work by not just the Ministry of Justice , but the devolve Administrations and the Home Office . I will ensure that he can engage with the relevant Ministers on the issue he raise . last year , assault on prison staff be up by 19 % and serious assault be up by 22 % , yet the pensionable age of prison officer be still 68 — it be simply too late . can the Minister update the House on any discussion he may have have with official regard that industrial injustice and say when these loyal public servant might expect to see this long - stand issue correct ? we recognise the unique and challenging role that prison officer play in protect the public and reduce reoffende . the Lord Chancellor have request advice from official on the pension age of prison officer , and we will continue to engage with trade union as we work through this complex issue while consider the wide fiscal context . I be meet the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) to discuss this important issue next week , and I be very happy for my hon . friend to join that meeting if he wish . I call the shadow Secretary of State . yesterday , the Sentencing Council issue a letter correct the Justice Secretary . it make it clear that the new sentencing guideline be not the same as the draft guidance under the last Government and explain that her Department support the new two - tier guidance — her representative be at the meeting — and it be approve on 24 January . her official be even give a walkthrough on 3 March — a dummy ' s guide to two - tier justice . after I bring that to her attention last Wednesday , her team brief the paper that she be " incandescent " . be she incandescent at her official or at her own failure to read her paper and do her job properly ? the shadow Lord Chancellor ' s amnesia continue , because he clearly have not do his homework ; he have forget that his Government be consult extensively on this guidance . it also appear that he can not read , because the letter state very clearly all the consultation that take place under his government . it show that they be consult numerous time on the new guidance and welcome it — I notice that he do not refer to that . he know full well that the change he refer to be a minor change , because the reference to race , ethnicity and cultural background have be retain in the time his government see it and the change that occur , so he can not hide behind that . the last few day have therefore be an expert lesson from the right hon . gentleman : he have teach we all how to throw the shadow Transport Secretary under a bus . as a lawyer herself , I would have think that the Justice Secretary would know the difference between the last set of guidance and the new one . I say " as a lawyer , " but in this Cabinet we never really know who be a real lawyer and who be just pretend to be one . in 21 day ' time , by the Justice Secretary ' s own admission , we will have two - tier justice . her plan to fix that will not come into effect for a year , and that be unacceptable . as she have be too lazy to do her job , I will do it for she . today I be present a Bill to block these two - tier sentencing guideline and fix her mess ; it be here and ready to go . will she support it ? will she stand with we on the Conservative Benches for equality under the law , or will it be two - tier justice with she and two - tier Keir ? the whole House can see that the only pretence at a job be the one that the shadow Lord Chancellor be make , because he be pretend to be the Leader of the Opposition . we all know exactly what he be about . my reaction to what have happen in relation to the Sentencing Council ' s guideline be very clear when I make the oral statement last week in this House : we will never stand for a two - tier approach to sentencing . I be actually get on with fix the problem , rather than look for a bandwagon to jump on , which be why I have already write to the Sentencing Council . I will be meet it later this week , and I have make it very clear that I will consider its role and its power . if I need to legislate , I will do so , but I will ensure that whatever change I bring forward be workable and deliver the fair justice system that we all need and deserve — one that his Government do not deliver . the principle of equality before the law be integral to our justice system , but the new guideline from the Sentencing Council — which be welcome by the previous Government — have put that principle at risk . do the Lord Chancellor agree that Conservative Members have a lot of explain to do ? I notice that in all his reference to letter , the shadow Lord Chancellor do not refer to the letter from the previous sentencing Minister , now the shadow Transport Secretary , who welcome those guideline . he know full well that that be a reference to the guideline around race , ethnicity and cultural background . the Government ' s statistic on woman in the criminal justice system show that woman be more often prosecute for much more minor offence and suffer from short prison sentence , which have huge social and emotional effect on their child and increase their likelihood of be take into care . what step be the Department take to continue deliver the female offender strategy delivery plan for 2022 to 2025 and to reach beyond it , think about the negative impact on the child of offender ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . that be why I set up the Women ' s Justice Board specifically to make recommendation — I believe that these be policy choice that be properly make by directly elect politician . we will make progress on the situation of woman in our prison , particularly those who be mother , because we know that the harm pass down generation , and we be determined to stop it . victim of rape have be consistently fail by our justice system . under the Tories , 60 % of victim drop out of their case due to long waiting time , and in my own area of Bournemouth , the charge rate be only 5 . 8 % . give the outrage we have hear from Conservative Members about the court backlog and the state of our system , which be leave to we by their own government , can the Lord Chancellor please tell we what we be do to fix the problem and put victim first ? I thank my hon . friend for that very important question . as part of our manifesto , we commit to fast - track rape case through the system . we be carefully consider the good way to do so , and we will be able to say more about our plan shortly . we be also create independent legal adviser for adult rape victim , who will be able to access that support at any point from report to trial , so that they know their right and their right be protect . the Government say that foreign national offender make up 12 % of the prison population . can the Secretary of State tell I when that number will be zero ? what I can tell the hon . Gentleman be that this Government have make fast progress than the previous Government on the deportation of foreign national offender from our prison , with number that be over 20 % high than the same time last year , and we will keep move forward . a constituent of mine , age just 21 , tragically die after access pro - suicide online forum that not only encourage self - harm , but advertise how to get lethal drug and how to exploit loophole that allow this . the substance use in her death can still be buy on Amazon today . what step will the Minister take to close those loophole for those who enable criminality and ensure that the law be actively keep our young people safe ? I be sorry to hear about that tragic case in my hon . friend ' s constituency . encourage or assist suicide be an offence under the Suicide Act 1961 , and send communication that encourage or assist serious self - harm be an offence under the Online Safety Act 2023 , but we be go to tighten up the law to address the situation that my hon . friend have describe . of course , this be about not just the law , but the enforcement of the law as well . we all agree that the court backlog must be clear , as justice for victim be essential . however , be the Government heed the Law Society ' s advice to not waste precious time and resource on an intermediate court , and what engagement have they have with the Law Society on that ? as the Lord Chancellor have say , our priority be deliver swifter justice for victim and bear down on the Crown court backlog . that be why we have ask Sir Brian Leveson to consider all option , which have to include reclassification of offence and the intermediate court . we have to have a whole - system reform , but I fear that if we be to exclude those option , we would not be grip the problem . a significant proportion of those who experience homelessness be ex - offender . I have previously raise concern that the drive to alleviate the prison place crisis must not add to the homelessness emergency . the Deputy Prime Minister be in the process of establish an inter - ministerial group on tackle homelessness . will my right hon . friend ' s Department play a full and active role in that inter - ministerial group , and ensure that Ministers and official from the Ministry of Justice be adequately represent ? my hon . friend make a very good point , and the Ministry of Justice will play a full part in the inter - ministerial group . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s attempt to prevent the Sentencing Council from change the sentencing process , which would lead to a two - tier justice system . if , however , the council will not budge — as appear to be the case — a two - tier justice system will arrive in just 21 day , contradict the key principle of the legal system that everyone should be equal before the law without discrimination . will the Secretary of State introduce legislation immediately to ensure that that two - tier justice system do not come about ? I have already set out exactly what I be go to do . I have write to the Sentencing Council , use the power that I have to do so , and I will be meet it later this week . I have make it very clear that I will consider its role and power , and if I need to legislate , I will not hesitate to do so . one of my constituent have endure prolong financial abuse due to draw - out divorce financial order proceeding , which largely ignore domestic abuse except in rare case . will the Minister commit to review financial settlement proceeding guidance to ensure that the impact of domestic abuse be properly consider , and to prevent the legal system from be use as a tool of continue coercion and control ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question , and my thought be with his constituent as she navigate this difficulty . the Government will consider carefully the 2024 report on financial provision on divorce , in which the Law Commission look into the specific issue of domestic abuse as a factor . later this year the Government will consult on the delivery of our manifesto commitment to strengthen the right and protection of cohabit couple , because all abuse be abuse , financial or otherwise . when someone enter this country illegally from another country to which we be not allow to deport they , and when they have previously express support for terrorism and terrorist organisation , but not in this jurisdiction , be the Secretary of State content that the Government have enough power to protect the community from such a person walk free in our society ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an incredibly important point . I be discuss with the Home Secretary the full range of power that we need to have at our disposal , and she have already make it clear that we will not hesitate to act far if we need to . however , it be important that we be able to deport offender who pose a risk to our country . last week , at a Justice Committee hearing , it be confirm that an effective probation service be essential to the rehabilitation of offender and to prevent reoffende . however , over the year the service have be under immense strain owe to increase demand . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that probation officer have manageable caseload , and that support be provide for their mental health and wellbee to avoid high level of stress and burnout , and also to help with the recruitment and retention of staff ? let I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the probation service . my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the chaotic running of the service under the last government . we be actively monitor the effectiveness of the probation reset policy and assess its impact on workload capacity , the time save , and the increase focus on individual pose the high risk to public safety . we recognise the significant pressure that probation officer have be under , which be why comprehensive wellbeing support model have be put in place across our service , include dedicated wellbeing lead for both prison and probation service . what work be the Secretary of State do with the Victims ' commissioner to ensure that the family of british citizen who be murder abroad have the same right as the family of homicide victim in the United Kingdom ? I regularly meet both the Victims ' Commissioner for England and Wales and the London Victims ' commissioner to consider all issue affect victim and their family . we be strengthen the power of the Victims ' commissioner through legislation , we will be strengthen the victim code , and we will of course consider any other measure that be need to protect victim and their family wherever they may be . on several occasion I have meet my constituent Beverley , whose son suffer a horrific murder . he be stab more than 140 time . she have be desperately attempt to get hold of the court transcript , but to no avail . will minister please meet I to help this still grieve mum ? I be really horrified to hear of that case . of course , as I mention early , the transcript of sentencing remark should have be make available free of charge , but I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss how transcript of trial more broadly can be make available . on Radio 4 ' s " today " programme last week , Matthew Ryder KC , who sit as a judge , praise the extreme helpfulness of pre - sentence report for pass effective sentence . will the Secretary of State do as he ask and endorse the importance , value and independence of the Sentencing Council ? we all agree across the House , I hope , that pre - sentencing report play a vital role in ensure that whoever be pass a sentence have all the relevant fact at their disposal . I do not believe that access to such report , or whether a sentencer ask for they , should be dictate by race or ethnic background . they should be make available , and I would like to see more use of pre - sentence report across the board for every type of offender . Manchester Metropolitan University estimate that over 1 , 000 people be convict under joint enterprise each year , cost the taxpayer £ 1 . 2 billion . do the Minister agree that we need to amend the law on joint enterprise to free up space in our prison ? the law on joint enterprise have already develop somewhat since the previous Court of Appeal decision . I know that the Director of Public Prosecutions be keep under review how prosecute decision be make . at this point we have no plan to go far , but I be happy to ensure that my hon . friend can meet the relevant Minister . across the United Kingdom , inquest be define as be for the purpose of find out who the decease be , and how , when and where they die ; they be not trial and they be not about assign blame , even when they be extend into article 2 investigation . yet in Northern Ireland we have have finding of blame in respect of SAS soldier kill active terrorist . do the Minister agree that the Crime and Policing Bill afford an opportunity , through suitable amendment , to bring uniformity to the operation of inquest across the United Kingdom ? the hon . and learn Gentleman be right to confirm that an inquest should be an inquisitorial process . it should not be adversarial either . I will raise the issue that he have mention with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , but what be deem to be in scope of legislation be a matter for the House authority and the Leader of the House . prison maintenance privatisation have be a complete and utter disaster . when will it be take back in - house ? we be invest approximately £ 500 million over two year in prison and probation service maintenance to improve condition across our estate , but it be fair to say we have inherit a system in serious need of repair . the estimate cost of bring the prison estate to a fair condition and maintain it till the end of the decade be £ 2 . 8 billion . the programme be now under way , and we hope that we will make as much progress as possible . rise — if member keep stand , it make it easy for I . one of the key objective of the Sentencing Council be to ensure that there be parity of sentence up and down the country . it be a know fact that people from ethnic minority sometimes get tough custodial sentence than their white counterpart for similar offence . give that , do the Lord Chancellor regret her attempt to discredit the consider and evidence - base conclusion of some of the most esteemed member of our judiciary when they publish the guideline on pre - sentencing report ? what I be shocked about be that we can see a disparity in the overall cohort sentence outcome . everybody accept that we be not quite sure why it be happen , and there have not be sufficient curiosity over the last few year to work out why that be the case . my view be that if we can see a problem or think we have one , we need to get to the bottom of what be actually go on before we start come up with broad policy solution to fix that problem . I also think that some of these broad policy decision be well make by Ministers , because we be directly elect individual who will pay the price for the consequence of our choice . that be a conversation that I will pick up with the Sentencing Council when we meet later this week . in 2020 , Lorraine Cox be brutally murder in Exeter . her murderer dismember her body , and as a result her family have never be able to fully lay Lorraine to rest . her father , Tony Cox , have be campaign for the implementation of Helen ' s law 2 , mean that desecrate or conceal a body would become a separate criminal offence . will the Minister meet I to discuss whether the implementation of Helen ' s law 2 be possible ? I will happily meet my hon . friend to discuss that far . what be this Government do to crack down on unqualified people represent themselves as solicitor ? as the hon . member well know , the solicitor profession be highly regulated . we have the Solicitors Regulation Authority , which itself be regulate by the Legal Services Board . all our professional , whether they be practise in criminal or civil law , be highly respected and highly regulated , and we be indebted to they . I be shocked to read the Sentencing Council ' s response to the Secretary of State last night , with its arrogant tone . as she have say , this Parliament be sovereign , and the fact be that we have give too much power away to these unelected body in recent year . can I reassure she of my support , and can she reassure I that she will not rest until we retain equality before the law ? I thank my hon . friend . I be very much look forward to my meeting with the Sentencing Council later this week . as I have make clear , I be look into the role and power of the council , and I will not hesitate to legislate if I need to do so . the two - tier sentencing guideline take effect on 1 April . if the Lord Chancellor be sincere about have a justice system that treat everyone equally , will she not support our Bill to block the guideline ? I have already make my position clear . I have write to the Sentencing Council , and I will be meet it later this week . I be review the role and power of the council , and I will not hesitate to legislate if I need to do so . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . last month , the Justice Committee hear evidence from governor of prison with some of the high drug use rate in the country . from detect drone to body scanner and physical barrier , they all feel under - resource in technology and investment . what be the Secretary of State do to well equip prison staff to keep drug out of prison ? we have already press ahead with further measure on x - ray and baggage scanner , and we be take action to deal with the problem of drone . my hon . friend will be aware that , for security consideration , I be not go to give the detail of some of those mitigation and of our proposal for tackle drone , because they be use by those involve in serious organise crime . however , I can assure he that I , Ministers and all official , include those work across the prison estate , be seize of this matter , and we be determined to crack down on drone bring drug into our prison . North Sea Vessel Collision with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on the collision that occur between two vessel off the east coast of Yorkshire yesterday . I want to begin by offer my sincere thank to all those who be respond on the frontline , from his Majesty ' s Coastguard to local emergency service . this be a challenging situation , and I know that I speak for everyone in this House when I say that the responder ' ongoing effort be both brave and hugely appreciated . I also want to thank our international partner for their many offer of assistance to the UK and for the support from the maritime community . this be a fast - move situation , so let I set out the fact as I currently have they . at 9 . 47 am on Monday 10 March , the vessel MV Solong , sail under the flag of Madeira , collide in the North sea with the anchor vessel MV Stena Immaculate , a fuel tanker sailing under the flag of the United States and operate by the US navy . the collision occur approximately 13 nautical mile off the coast . fire immediately break out on both vessel and , after initial firefighting attempt be overwhelm by the size and nature of the fire , both crew abandon ship . firefighting and search and rescue operation , co - ordinated by his Majesty ' s Coastguard , continue throughout the day yesterday , pause in the evening once darkness fall . firefighting activity restart this morning and I be pleased to say the fire on the Stena Immaculate appear to be extinguish , but the Solong continue to burn . although they become attach to each other during the collision , the Solong break free of the Stena Immaculate late last night and begin drift southward . modelling suggest that , should the Solong remain afloat , it will remain clear of land for the next few hour . the assessment of HM Coastguard be , however , that it be unlikely the vessel will remain afloat . tugboat be in the vicinity to ensure that the Solong remain away from the coast and to respond as the situation develop . I want to be clear that , while 1 , 000 - metre temporary exclusion zone have be establish around both vessel , maritime traffic through the Humber estuary be continue . the full crew of 23 on the MV Stena Immaculate be account for and on shore . one sailor be treat at the scene , but decline any further medical assistance . thirteen of the 14 sailor of the MV Solong be account for . search and rescue operation for the miss sailor continue throughout yesterday , but be call off yesterday evening at the point at which the chance of their survival have unfortunately significantly diminish . our working assumption be , very sadly , that the sailor be deceased . the coastguard have inform the company , and it have be advise to inform the next of kin . our thought be with the sailor ' s love one at this time . regard the cargo on the vessel , the MV Stena be carry 220 , 000 barrel of jet fuel , which be the source of the fire . the Maritime and Coastguard Agency be work at pace to determine exactly what cargo the Solong be carry . I be aware of medium report about potential hazardous material on board , but we be unable to confirm that at this time . however , counter - pollution measure and asset be already in place , and both vessel be be closely monitor for structural integrity . a tactical co - ordination group have be establish through the Humber and Lincolnshire local resilience forum . the marine accident investigation branch have deploy to the site and begin its investigation . the MCA be rapidly develop a plan to salvage the vessel , once it be safe to do so . the Department for Transport will continue work closely with the Cabinet Office , other Government agency and the resilience forum on the response . colleague across the House will appreciate that the situation be still unfold as I speak . I will try to answer question from hon . member with as much detail as possible and with the late information I have at my disposal . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . yesterday morning , shortly before 10 am , the container ship MV Solong collide with the oil tanker MV Stena Immaculate , which be at anchor in the North sea off the coast of Yorkshire . the Stena Immaculate be on a short - term charter to the US navy ' s military sealift command and be carry 220 , 000 barrel of jet fuel . the Minister have not formally confirm the cargo of the Solong , a Madeira - flagged vessel , but it have be widely report that it be carry 15 container of toxic sodium cyanide . I listen to the statement carefully , but can the Minister confirm that that be now not his understanding ? the collision and the result spill be deeply concern . however , before question the Minister on the Government ' s response , I join he in pay tribute to HM Coastguard , the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , the emergency service , and all other who help to respond to the incident . as the Minister note , the emergency service be on the scene swiftly and their action save many life . approach fiercely burn vessel with a risk of explosion take enormous bravery and we all commend they . I be grateful for the confirmation that all mariner from the Stena Immaculate have be recover without injury , and that 13 of the 14 crew member from the Solong have be bring safely ashore . our thought and prayer be with the family and colleague of the miss member of that crew . I understand that the search for life have conclude , but can the Minister update the House on the effort be make to recover that mariner ? turn to the collision itself , the Minister confirm that early investigation do not point to foul play , but will he commit to remain vigilant to ensure that any indication of foul play be carefully investigate ? additionally , will he inform the House of the impact on the investigative process of the involvement of ship register in both the US and Madeira ? have the Government contact the respective government to ensure their close co - operation ? the Minister will be aware of the deep concern over the effect of the oil spill on the surround marine environment . environmental organisation have warn of potentially devastating impact of pollution from the tanker on the habitat and specie in the area , include threatened seabird colony , grey seal and fish , and nature - rich site such as the Humber estuary , where conservationist have be restore seagrass and oyster , could be devastate by this emergency . have he be brief by the Environment Agency on its response , and could he give we more detail on it ? the Minister make reference to the drift of the Solong and the risk of it run aground without intervention . can he update the House on the step that will be take to ensure that that do not happen ? I understand that the marine accident investigation branch have begin a preliminary investigation into the emergency , and I be pleased that the Minister be work closely with the Maritime and Coastguard Agency as it conduct an assessment on the counter - pollution response that may be require over the come day . however , I seek assurance that the Government will engage closely with local community , who will be concern about the impact of the collision on their environment . the incident involve multiple Departments span emergency response , environmental protection , maritime safety , defence and chemical transport regulation , and effective cross - Government co - ordination be therefore crucial . will the Minister assure the House that such co - ordination be take place and that Parliament will receive regular update ? it be , of course , too early to draw significant conclusion at this stage , but it be clear that something go terribly wrong in the handling of these two vessel . we will support the Minister in whatever action be need to ensure the high standard of safety on the high sea . the shadow Minister be exactly right : something do go terribly wrong . my thought and prayer be with the miss sailor ' s family . the company have be inform , and his next of kin be be inform . in response to the series of question the shadow Minister ask , we know for sure that the Immaculate be carry 220 , 000 barrel of Jet a - 1 fuel , but we be yet to establish the cargo of the Solong ; as soon as I know , I will make that information available to the House . we will do everything to recover the body of the mariner . in a recent debate on emergency response service , we hear that though life be lose at sea , some succour and comfort be give by the rescue service , who often bring people ' s love one back to they for a proper funeral and burial . whether there be foul play be , I think , speculation ; there be no evidence to suggest that at the moment . through the MCA , we be in contact with our american and portuguese counterpart and have liaise with they . on the counter - pollution measure that the shadow Minister mention , the MCA be stand by with marine and aerial counter - pollution measure , which it will use at the necessary time . however , the immediate concern be to put out the fire on the Solong . the shadow Minister mention the issue of drift . the Immaculate remain anchored , so we be safe there ; it be the Solong that be drift at 2 nautical mile per hour . it be currently be shadow by two tugboat , and the order will be give by sosrep or the MCA to intervene as and when necessary to protect life onshore . the shadow Minister be right about the marine accident investigation branch . we have deploy those asset to the scene . they be currently work with the local resilience forum , and I want to pass on my thank to the Humberside resilience forum at this time . I can assure he that Government agency be work together effectively and have be give Ministers and the Secretary of State regular update through situation report as the night go on and the day continue . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . I endorse the Minister ' s thank to the frontline worker who have be involve , and his concern for and condolence to the miss mariner ' s family . while we wait for the report on how this appalling tragedy happen , which will have to be do , will the Minister confirm how route be be manage while the Solong be drift , and whether further protection of route will be need because of pollution in order not to delay further movement of ship in these busy water and to protect the welfare of seafarer in other ship ? I thank the Chair of the Transport Committee for that question . it be an incredibly busy sea highway , as we all know . I have the great honour of visit the command and control post of the Humber estuary on what be almost my last visit as shadow Maritime Minister just before the general election , and I pay tribute to the worker there for their hard work in deal with this situation . I want to assure the Chair of the Transport Committee that the Immaculate be anchor ; it be the Solong that be drift . there be a 1 , 000 - metre exclusion zone around both vessel . other asset be currently allow to traverse the Humber estuary . if that change , I will make that information available during the day . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the scene we have all witness in news report be very concerning , and our thought be with all those affected and with the family of the crew member who remain unaccounted for . this event remind we of the risk and danger face by those who work in the maritime sector . these man and woman often work long , challenge hour , keep our country and economy go with little — if any — recognition , and we be hugely grateful to they . we be also indebted to the emergency service , the Royal National Lifeboat Institution and the coastguard for their tireless work through the night . I know they be do all they can to limit the damage and the environmental impact , and have do so much to minimise the loss of life . while it will take time to establish what have take place , it be clear that the Government need to take urgent step to limit the damage and reassure local community . I welcome the Government ' s formation of the tactical co - ordination group and the work it be do with other agency . I appreciate that the situation be still unfold and that many question can not be answer at this stage . however , will the Minister say first what immediate step the Government be take to protect the environment along the east coast ? secondly , what be he do to keep shipping route open and safe ? thirdly , what be the Government ' s plan to support fishing and other business that rely on water that might now be contaminate ? I join the hon . gentleman in pay tribute to maritime worker . just as they keep we feed , fuel and supply all the way through covid , they keep our nation feed , fuel and supply every day of every week . I can not commend they highly enough . I also join with he in pay tribute to the emergency service . this be difficult , hard work and they be do an exceptional job in the circumstance . as I have say , the MCA be stand by with marine and aerial counter - pollution measure in place . once we get the fire on the Solong out , we will begin to assess the situation and deploy they . it be vital that we keep ship lane in the Humber estuary open as well we can as this continue , which be why we have place a 1 , 000 - metre exclusion zone around both ship . outside that , maritime vessel can operate normally — as normally as be possible in this circumstance . I thank the Minister for his communication with I through this unfold situation and everybody who have be involve in it . the situation be evolve minute by minute , and I pay tribute to the local RNLI , coastguard and emergency service for their rapid rescue response , and to the local community , who have be heavily involve in ready themselves for any potential ecological or environmental fallout from this incident . as the Minister may be aware , Ernst Russ , which own the Solong , have now put out a statement say that it have be " misreporte " that the hazardous chemical be on board the Solong , and that " there be four empty container that have previously contain the hazardous chemical , " which it will continue to monitor . I wonder whether the Minister have have any success in track down the manifest for the Solong so that we can reassure my constituent and put their mind at ease as to exactly what be on that vessel . I would also like to know when the Minister be expect the initial report from the marine accident investigation branch so that we can understand what on earth happen in this most extraordinary of event . I thank my hon . friend for keep in contact with I throughout the night and this morning . just before the election , we both visit the command and control centre in her constituency to see the excellent facility in place . I pay tribute to the Humberside local resilience forum , which be make up of the police , the fire and rescue team , local authority , the Red Cross , the NHS , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , the clinical commissioning group , the Royal Navy , police and crime commissioner , the ambulance service , Border Force , environmental agency , the Ministry of Defence , ABP Humber Ports , the Met Office and the UK Health Security Agency . those team be all work at pace to assess any risk to local people that may occur . there have be many press report on the manifest , but the fact be the fact . there be 220 , 000 barrel of A1 jet fuel on the Immaculate , and the MCA be work at pace to establish the cargo on the Solong , which sail from Grangemouth . hopefully , as soon as we have that information from the manifest , we will make it available to the House . I join the Minister in salute the heroic rescuer and mourn the loss of the seaman . Mr Speaker , you may share some of my frustration at the lack of communication with member of this House regard yesterday ' s maritime disaster off the Holderness coast in my constituency . apart from a brief phone call follow my reach out to the Secretary of State for Transport , I speak to the leader of East Riding of Yorkshire council , the police and crime commissioner and local councillor . all be struggle to get information as to what be go on just mile off the coast . my constituent from Kilsney , Easington , Withernsea , Aldborough and beyond deserve well . I must ask the Minister why it take so long for the local resilience forum to be set up . be he confident that we have the proper structure of governance in place when a disaster such as this happen ? how can we ensure that communication be improve ? what work be be do to protect the puffin , wildlife and beach in our area ? and how can we ensure that the agency responsible be hold to account ? perhaps the Minister can comment on why he be miss in action yesterday . we would have love to have hear not just from 24 - hour rolling medium but from a member of our own elect Government about what be happen with this terrible disaster . Mr Speaker , I be deal with the situation — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] the Secretary of State make a statement . we stand up the Maritime and Coastguard Agency and , within minute , a response be ongoing . the right hon . Member have a call from a member of staff of the Secretary of State within an hour or two of the incident . he be keep fully inform . the local Humberside resilience forum be establish . we deploy asset for marine protection at the site . I be not sure what he be ask for , but I be very proud of our agency — both local and national — that have work at pace to get we to where we be currently . I welcome the Minister ' s timely statement and would like to associate myself with his praise for the swift response of the emergency service and the RNLI volunteer . over recent year , fisherman along the east coast of Yorkshire , include Scarborough and Whitby , have battle to keep go against the background of the effect of the crustacean die - off . they be naturally extremely concerned by report of jet fuel possibly leak into the sea . I do appreciate that this be a fast - move situation , but can my hon . Friend tell the House more about the counter - pollution measure that be in place and also how predict weather condition will affect the ongoing operation ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . yes , I know that member on the north - east coast from both side of this House have be worry over a number of year about the crustacean die - off . there be a concern that jet oil could well be leak into the sea , but every resource be be deploy by the MCA and other agency to assess the extent of the pollution , and every resource will be deploy to clean up that pollution . I happen to be meet fisherman organisation later in the week for separate reason , so I hope to be able to update they with further information about their valuable trade at that time . I have be in communication with Liberal Democrat councillor in the East Riding of Yorkshire and also the Liberal Democrat administration in Hull . yesterday , the leader of the council , Mike Ross , raise the call for a rapid response from Government , and I really push the Minister to provide clarity on what exactly we should be see from a tactical co - ordination group and whether there be Government commitment to cover any environmental or economic impact . moreover , what more support will we see down the line if there be long - term consequence as a result of the pollution ? it be standard procedure to bring on board local resilience forum in any situation such as this . that have be do : the forum be up and run . I be grateful to all elect member across the party and hard - work councillor who will be involve in make sure that the good interest of the people of the Humber region be protect . we have currently deploy on site all the resource that be need to contain the fire and to assess the environmental damage of any spillage . we will continue to make decision in conjunction with the local resilience forum through the day and , I believe , for the rest of the week . I wish to add my voice to the call make by my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) give the very perilous position of the Teesside and North Yorkshire marine ecosystem follow the environmental disaster we suffer in 2021 . I ask the Minister to ensure that the response be not only around the Humber estuary , but that he review the environmental impact for the entire east coast as well . as I have say , the MCA ' s counter - pollution asset be be deploy at the scene . the RNLI , search and rescue and aviation have all be on site , although search and rescue have be stand down . both vessel be also carry marine heavy fuel oil . that be a present pollution risk should either vessel sink or break apart . I thank the Minister for his statement today and echo his comment about the miss sailor . I also add my thank to all those who have be involve in the rescue operation , particularly those at the RNLI station in Bridlington . my constituent be rightly concerned about the potential environmental and ecological impact , not least because we have the big bird colony in mainland Britain , Bempton and Flamborough in Bridlington have the large shellfish land port in the UK , and we have around 5 million visitor to the area every year , enjoy the beach from Bridlington down to Hornsea . have the Minister yet have any assessment of the direction of any potential pollution and the role that current and wind direction will play in where that pollution might eventually end up ? the hon . member be right to raise that . I have a conversation late last night on that subject with the Minister responsible for nature , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) . the Met Office have tell we that theoretical model be use to plot potential movement of the smoke plume , which be similar to the way that it forecast weather . air quality monitoring can be do by onshore monitoring station , such as the one at Immingham , which be close to the site . the immediate concern be to stop the fire so that we can assess the pollution . as soon as the fire be out , inspector can move near or move in to assess the extent of the spill — if there be a spill — and then we can begin to deploy the relevant resource to tackle that spill . my constituency be on the north - east coast , probably about 150 mile from this horrendous disaster . can the Minister say whether there have be an initial assessment on how it happen and where the pollution might move to ? be there a potential threat to the coastline of the north - east of England ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . as I have say , the Met Office be model the wind situation at the moment . we need to get the fire out on the Solong . once that be do , we can make a further assessment of what be require and in which direction any pollution — if there be any — be move , and we will deploy our asset to tackle that when we know that for sure . it be just over 32 year now since the MV Braer be ground off Shetland , but for we the memory be still very fresh . we know exactly how those community on the east coast of England who be brace for what may be come will feel . we might not know what happen , but we can be pretty certain that at some time , somewhere , something of this sort be go to happen , such be the nature of shipping and how it be regulate and own across the world . in Shetland we have be warn for year of the danger of tanker anchor right by our shoreline and of other enter area that be mark on the chart as to be avoid , but it be next to impossible to get any agency to take ownership of that . I know that the Minister be concerned about this , so can we use this moment to take a serious look at how we protect our coastal and island community ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his expertise in this area . he have raise with I the issue of tanker moor off Shetland and Orkney . I understand that the 1972 collision regulation state that there have to be proper sight and sound lookout and all other method , so something have go wrong . as difficult as it be to say , accident always provide an opportunity to see how we can do thing well . I hope that when the marine accident investigation branch come back with both its initial and its substantive finding , which will come to my desk , we can learn the lesson of this accident . I join other in praise the emergency service , and I also praise Martyn Boyers and his colleague from Port of Grimsby East , who support the emergency service . obviously , the concern at the moment be extinguish the fire , but there will be a potential long - term impact on the local community , inasmuch as there will be pollution and the like on the beach . will the Minister and other Departments work closely with the council and other agency to ensure that any support that be need will be available ? the hon . Member have the Port of Immingham in his constituency , where the Immaculate be wait to unload its cargo when a berth come available . I can assure he that the MCA be on stand - by . it have marine and aerial logistic in place to assess any potential pollution spill . if there be one , we will tackle it , but as I say , the priority be to extinguish the fire on the Solong . I thank the Minister for his statement . we congratulate everyone involve . it be worth remember the voluntary nature of so many of the emergency service and the RNLI . the volunteer from the RNLI Skegness rush out of their home and business to man the lifeboat , which be away for almost 11 hour , put themselves in harm ' s way with extraordinary bravery . we should never forget that . the hon . Member should brace himself for what I be about to say : he act with honour this weekend , relate to my circumstance , with his former party member , and I be grateful to he . he be exactly right . our emergency service be second to none , as be our volunteer who help his Majesty ' s Coastguard and the RNLI . these man and woman risk their life brave the sea , the wind , the temperature and the fog , to go and do what they could at the scene yesterday . I have nothing but the high praise for they . my constituency have the Norfolk coast area of outstanding natural beauty and other vital habitat , include the Wash , as well as a fishing fleet . give the location of the collision , there be local concern about the potential impact . when will a risk assessment be do on the potential risk of pollution down the east coast to Norfolk ? what action be be take to contain it ? will the Minister commit to keep the public informed ? MCA asset be be deploy currently to assess and monitor any potential environmental impact of this accident . the hon . Gentleman be right that the area be richly biodiverse . the priority remain extinguish the fire on the Solong , so that we can properly evaluate the situation . once we get that do , we will use every resource possible to ascertain the extent of the pollution , and to clear it up . let I put on record my thank and appreciation to the resilience team at North Norfolk district council and its staff , and the port of Wells for its response and preparedness . it be not instantly clear what area will be affect , and with change wind and weather condition , pollution can change course . North Norfolk be 50 nautical mile away from the incident and be currently predict to be unaffected , but we be keep a close eye on what happen . will the Minister confirm that he will keep all mps along the North sea coastline update on development ? will he also confirm that if pollution be set to reach North Norfolk , my fishing community will get as much notice as possible ? they have well - rehearse plan in place , but they need good notice in order to deploy they . the hon . Member make an important point about how interconnect our coastal community be when it come to this type of incident . our official be monitor where the pollution be go ; we be look at wind direction . I be grateful for the fact that his local resilience team be stand up , and I be happy to keep all member inform of the ongoing situation , when require . automatic identification system and radar should mean that these sort of thing do not happen , even in dense fog , which be why many of we think initially that this could well be a maritime 9 / 11 - type event , or that a malign state actor could be involve . fortunately , that appear not to be the case , but the event have expose a vulnerability , and ship like the Stena Immaculate could be say to be sit duck . what audit will the Minister do of that vulnerability ? will he put in place what be practically necessary to prevent such occurrence ? the right hon . Gentleman ask a very good question . in addition to have maritime responsibility , I be the security Minister for the Department of Transport . we will learn any maritime security lesson from this incident , in term of malign actor , and we will implement any recommendation . have the Minister be in contact with the Scottish Government , notably about the Solong ' s port of origin ? clearly , it be in significant danger of sink , and have container on board . if any of those container break loose and get wash up on shore , widespread and firm public information about the danger of approach any container will be vital , give the hazardous substance in some of they . responsibility for the Maritime and Coastguard Agency be reserve to I , and it cover the United Kingdom . I hope that that answer the hon . Gentleman ' s first question . on his second question , I do not want to speculate on the cargo of the Solong until I have the fact confirm by official , and I will then let the House know appropriately . I thank the Minister for the clarity of his statement and his answer . be it not extraordinary that there be such uncertainty about whether so deadly a cargo as sodium cyanide be be carry on one of the vessel ? he say that tug might have to intervene to prevent the vessel run aground on the shore of this country . have he consider that if the fire be too dangerous for the tug to approach , then in those extreme circumstance , the Royal Navy ' s involvement might be necessary ? we be a proud maritime nation , and we have the maritime skill to transport all sort of hazardous substance , if need be , to our island nation . we have the skill , the people , the port , and the shipping line to do that . I ask the right hon . member not to speculate on what be on the Solong , because that have not be establish . there have be multiple press report , and once I know for sure , I will inform the House appropriately . I remind the whole House that the United Kingdom be a world leader in maritime insurance . this be what we do . we trade , bring good and service across the world , and we insure those good and service . we should all be proud of both our maritime sector and the insurance sector . I too pay tribute to everyone involve in the emergency response . do the Minister share my deep concern that more than 24 hour after this collision , we still do not know what the cargo be on the MV Solong ? surely the insurance industry ought to know that , at the very least . on the pollution , I understand that this incident may have take place in or close to two marine protect area . be those area affect ? what be the plan for clean they up ? the Minister mention that pollution measure be in wait , but have not be implement , because the priority be reduce the fire , but I understand that the Stena Immaculate — the one with hundred of thousand of tonne of fuel oil — be no long burn . what measure be be take to tackle the pollution now ? speed be of the essence . I think the incident start at about 10 minute to 10 yesterday , so we be only about 27 hour in . within minute , asset be stand up and the crew be bring safely home , except for one member of the Solong . we have asset in place to measure the pollution now , and those asset be be deploy where that be safe , but the priority remain get the fire out on the Solong . several hon . member have mention the effect on the marine environment , include endangered bird specie such as puffin and kittiwake , which be return to colony right now in place like the Isle of May in my constituency . what engagement be the Minister have with the charity and organisation who run those colony ? secondly , follow the question from the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) about the Scottish Government , if , as we fear , we see the bad - case scenario of pollution extend extensively , be there any plan for engagement between the Environment Agency and Scottish Environment Protection Agency ? the environment be absolutely at the front of our mind . once we get the fire out , we will make those impact assessment and take the appropriate measure to clean up pollution , if there be any . the Department be work across Government and with the local resilience forum . in the day ahead , once we have the impact assessment , we will liaise with partner agency on the good way forward on bird , marine and fish protection and the environment . I join the Minister in pay tribute to all those emergency service that respond , but the unknown — the cargo of the Solong — be a major concern to many in the Chamber , and many who be work to deal with the incident . what engagement on this issue have the Minister have with the UN ' s International Maritime Organisation , which have responsibility for the safety and security of shipping , and the prevention of marine and atmospheric pollution by ship ? what step will be take to learn from it ? will we engage with the IMO to ensure that all cargo at sea be know by someone ? we be in discussion with the owner of both vessel . we know that the Solong be sail from Grangemouth , and that it have a mixed cargo of container . that be the only information available to I , and that information be be analyse . we be try to ascertain more . I do not have information for the House at the moment , but as soon as I do , we will make it know . as I say , the Stena Immaculate be carry 220 , 000 barrel of a - 1 jet fuel . we can begin to prepare contingency plan with the information that we already have about the vessel . I thank the Minister for his full statement , and I associate myself with remark make about the potential loss of life and the community affect . I understand that the priority be deal with the immediate incident , and that there will be a full investigation by the Maritime Accident Investigation Branch in due course . give that the Royal Navy have deploy vessel to the North sea to monitor hostile state ' activity on and under the sea , will the Minister assure we that the Government and their agency will undertake an assessment , so that we can be clear that there have be no foreign interference in this terrible accident ? the answer be yes . the Ministry of Defence contact I last night to say that it be ready and willing to be deploy , if require . so far , that have not be require , because we feel that there be no malign intent in this incident . however , as the hon . Member say , the Marine Accident Investigation Branch will investigate and give I its initial finding as soon as humanly possible . I will read its final report — it be my duty to do so as maritime Minister — and we will take the matter from there . the hon . Member be right to raise that point . I thank all those who have respond ; we owe they a debt . I also thank the Minister for his endeavour . I speak to he yesterday about this . he have be assiduous and focused , and we in the House should put on record our thank to he for all that he have do . will he outline the step that will be take to investigate whether failing in visual observation , radar or the automated identification system lead to this unexpected collision ? how can we ensure that the long - term environmental effect of this devastating collision be deal with in a co - ordinate manner ? I thank the hon . member . may I update the House ? no sign of pollution from the vessel be observe at this time . monitoring be in place , and should the situation change , the asset in place will be use as need . that be the late information relay to I . the hon . Gentleman ' s question be a matter for the Marine Accident Investigation Branch . we have extraordinarily dedicate official on site ; they be deploy yesterday . they will survey the two vessel and report back to I with initial finding when they can . there will be a final report for sign - off on my desk at some stage . I be grateful for his support . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . early today , David Lawrence , a former labour parliamentary candidate , put out a public statement say that he be pleased to be " invite to no . 10 for a preview of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill " , a landmark piece of legislation yet to see the light of day in this House , despite a number of statement from Ministers about how significant and important it would be . may I seek your guidance on how we can ensure that important legislation deserve the scrutiny of Parliament be first see in this House , not share offline with Labour parliamentary candidate ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . I be sure that his comment have be hear by those on the Treasury Bench . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . can I assure the House that no one have have a preview ? the Planning and Infrastructure Bill be come to the House . of course , we regularly consult stakeholder , but no one have have a preview before the House . I thank the Secretary of State for that point of clarification . Bills present Planning and Infrastructure Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 Secretary Angela Rayner , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Ed Miliband , Secretary Heidi Alexander , Secretary Steve Reed , Secretary Jo Stevens and Secretary Ian Murray , present a Bill to make provision about infrastructure ; to make provision about town and country planning ; to make provision for a scheme , administer by Natural England , for a nature restoration levy payable by developer ; to make provision about development corporation ; to make provision about the compulsory purchase of land ; to make provision about environmental outcome report ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 196 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 196 — EN ) . Sentencing Council ( Powers of Secretary of State ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Robert Jenrick , support by Mrs Kemi Badenoch , Rebecca Harris , Dr Kieran Mullan and Helen Grant , present a Bill to provide that the Sentencing Council may not issue sentence guideline without the consent of the Secretary of State ; to give the Secretary of State the power to amend sentencing guideline prepare by the Sentencing Council before they be issue ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 March , and to be print ( Bill 197 ) . Financial Education Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about financial education ; and for connected purpose . without that education , we be collectively create the great financial crisis of our time . the problem , quite simply , be that we as a nation be not live within our mean . there be once a sense that people have certain financial responsibility : to save for a house , to save for retirement , to save for holiday or for a rainy day — but no more . two fifth of Brits have less than £ 1 , 000 in saving and , as a result , money have become synonymous with anxiety . how will we pay our bill , our mortgage , our tuition fee and even our meal ? we have also ignore people ' s anxiety about money for far too long , whether they be university student , apprentice or parent not eat to ensure that their child can . we have high expectation but low mean . an extraordinary and deeply depressing statistic be that 96 % of young people worry about money every single day — yet we continue to spend , not least because it be so easy . offer pop up on our screen every day , create by marketing wizard who know exactly where we be most vulnerable . they use our search history to whet our appetite for new book , video game , appliance and overseas trip . in a single click , we be commit and plunge far into the red . around 20 million people effectively pay on account , not to local shop owner who know they and live locally but through impersonal buy now , pay later scheme that bring with they all - too - easy extortionate rate of interest . the debt just keep on grow . there be a solution , which be to treat the problem at source , through education . young people need to understand how money work , the principle of save and the danger and opportunity of compound interest . this be not a new idea . the coalition Government bring in financial education for secondary school , and this Bill aim to consolidate that learn and extend provision to primary school and tertiary education . money habit be form at an early age — indeed , from the age of seven — yet many school leaver remain in the dark . fifty - five per cent of those employ apprentice be aware that many of their worker face financial difficulty . the situation do not require extra resource , just extra creativity . in fact , it can bring the curriculum to life . in Finland , for example , money be incorporate into the teaching of all subject . in math lesson problem link to saving and debt , geography lesson explain the cost of deforestation on good in the supermarket , and it lesson explain the financial consequence of buy extra credit for a favourite video game . this be not a party political matter . the Bill will reduce inequality and help explain the importance of property , the benefit of home ownership and a comfortable retirement , and what it take to provide for one ' s own family . I have speak to banker , teacher , child , parent , police , employer , councillor , accountant , magistrate and lawyer . whatever their political persuasion , they all agree that money be the root of many of society ' s problem , not least because people be increasingly unaware of how to manage it or what be possible through careful budgeting . school should prepare young people for the adult world . yet for all the focus on balance an equation , there be no attention give to balance one ' s bank account , and for the many hour spend generate interest in past event , none be focus on meet interest payment on a future loan or mortgage . we be send our young people out into the world and put they into the game of life without even teach they the rule first . fifty per cent of the british public would fail an OECD financial literacy test . we rank alongside Thailand and Albania despite be one of the world ' s wealthy country . it be no wonder that only 1 % of teacher believe their pupil possess adequate financial skill , or that 67 % of young people do not feel confident planning for their financial future . in my maiden speech , I focus on the importance of social mobility . we do not have much — I could not always attend school trip and we could not always have the heating on — but I find way to save for the thing that I want in life . in an age when many believe that the responsibility of toothbrushing should be hand to teacher , we can not leave our entire financial future to materialise like magic and our economy to decay even fast than those young tooth . as a country , we have to balance the book , and that start by understand the principle of money . that be why I and the sponsor of this Bill urge the House to give future generation the tool and the knowledge to avoid walk into financial ruin and to lead successful and prosperous life , irrespective of their background . question put and agree to . order , that Mr Peter Bedford , Jerome Mayhew , Blake Stephenson , Josh Newbury , Mr Jonathan Brash , Sir Roger Gale , Shockat Adam , Wera Hobhouse , Ian Roome , Si â n Berry , Lewis Cocking and Martin Vickers present the Bill . Mr Peter Bedford accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April , and to be print ( Bill 195 ) . Employment Rights Bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) order , that the Order of 21 October 2024 ( Employment Rights Bill : Programme ) be varied as follow : 1 . paragraph 4 and 5 of the order shall be omit . 2 . proceeding on consideration and Third reading shall be take in two day in accordance with the follow provision of this Order . 3 . proceeding on consideration — ( a ) shall be take on each of those day in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . proceeding time for conclusion of proceeding first day New Clauses and new schedule relate to the subject matter of , and amendment to , Part 1 , Part 2 and Part 3 . six hour after the commencement of proceeding on the motion for this order . second day New Clauses and new schedule relate to the subject matter of , and amendment to , Part 4 , Part 5 and Part 6 ; remain new Clauses and new schedule ; remaining proceeding on consideration . five hour after the commencement of proceeding on consideration on the second day . 4 . proceeding on Third reading shall be take on the second day and shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion six hour after the commencement of proceeding on consideration on the second day . — ( Justin Madders . ) Employment Rights Bill [ 1st allocate day ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Third Report of the Business and Trade Committee , make work pay : Employment Rights Bill , HC 370 ; Second Report of the Women and Equalities Committee , Equality at work : miscarriage and bereavement leave , HC 335 ; Fourth Report of the Work and Pensions Committee of Session 2023 - 24 , Statutory Sick Pay , HC 148 ; and write evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee , on Statutory Sick Pay , report to the House on 10 March 2025 , HC 787 . ] New Clause 32 - Agency worker : guarantee hour and right relate to shift " ( 1 ) after section 27BU of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( insert by section 3 ) insert — " CHAPTER 4A - Agency worker : guarantee hour and right relate to shift 27bua Agency worker ( 1 ) in this part , " agency worker " mean an individual — ( a ) who have a worker ' s contract or an arrangement with a work - find agency by virtue of which the individual be ( or be to be ) supply to work for and under the supervision and direction of another person , ( b ) who do not do ( or be not to do ) the work under a worker ' s contract with the other person , and ( c ) who be not ( or be not to be ) a party to a contract under which the individual undertake to do the work for another party to the contract whose status be , by virtue of the contract , that of a client or customer of any profession or business undertaking carry on by the individual . ( 2 ) in this part — ( a ) reference to an agency worker include , where the context require , a former agency worker , and ( b ) where that be the case , reference in relation to the agency worker to a work - find agency , and reference ( however express ) to a person for and under the supervision and direction of whom the agency worker work , be to be read accordingly . ( 3 ) an individual be an " agency worker " for the purpose of this part — ( a ) whether the individual be ( or be to be ) supply to work for and under the supervision and direction of another person — ( i ) by the work - find agency refer to in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , or ( ii ) by a person other than the work - find agency ; ( b ) whether the individual be ( or be to be ) pay , for work do for and under the supervision and direction of another person — ( i ) by the work - find agency refer to in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , or ( ii ) by a person other than the work - find agency . ( 4 ) in this part , " work - find agency " mean a person carry on the business ( whether or not with a view to profit and whether or not in conjunction with any other business ) of find , or seek to find , work for individual to do for and under the supervision and direction of other person ( but not in the employment of those other person ) . ( 5 ) Part 1 of Schedule A1 contain provision about guarantee hour and agency worker . ( 6 ) Part 2 of Schedule A1 contain provision about right of agency worker to reasonable notice in relation to shift . ( 7 ) Part 3 of Schedule A1 contain provision about right of agency worker to payment for shift that be cancel , move or curtail at short notice . " ( 2 ) schedule ( Agency worker : guarantee hour and right relate to shift ) insert Schedule a1 into the Employment Rights Act 1996 . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause add a new clause ( intend to go after clause 3 ) which provide a new definition of " agency worker " for the purpose of Part 2A of the Employment Rights Act 1996 and introduce the new schedule insert by ns1 which insert a new Schedule a1 into the 1996 Act . Schedule A1 be to take the place of the regulation - make power in propose new section 27bw of the 1996 Act which be remove by amendment 48 . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 33 — collective agreement : contract out . government new clause 34 — collective redundancy consultation : protect period . government new clause 35 — duty to keep record relate to annual leave . government new clause 36 — extension of regulation of employment business . government new clause 37 — power to establish Social Care Negotiating Body . government new clause 38 — Agency worker who be not otherwise " worker " . new clause 1 — domestic abuse victim ' leave — " ( 1 ) within twelve month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must make regulation entitle a worker who be a victim of domestic abuse to be absent from work on leave under this section . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " domestic abuse " be define in accordance with section 1 and 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . ( 3 ) the regulation must include provision for determine — ( a ) the extent of a worker ' s entitlement to leave under this section ; and ( b ) when leave under this section may be take . ( 4 ) provision under subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) must secure that , where a worker be entitle to take leave under this section , that worker be entitle to ― ( a ) at least ten work day ' leave ; and ( b ) the benefit of the term and condition of employment which would have apply but for the absence . ( 5 ) the regulation may ― ( a ) make provision about how leave under this section be to be take ; ( b ) make different provision for different case or circumstance ; and ( c ) make consequential provision . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to provide for statutory leave for victim of domestic abuse , with regulation provide for a minimum of ten day ' leave . new clause 2 — domestic abuse : right not to suffer detriment — " in Part v of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( right not to suffer detriment ) , after section 47 g , insert new section 47h — ' domestic abuse ( 1 ) a worker have the right not to be subject to any detriment by any act , or any deliberate failure to act , by their employer do on the ground that the worker have be , or be suspect to have be ― ( a ) a victim of domestic abuse ; or ( b ) affect directly by domestic abuse . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " domestic abuse " be define in accordance with section 1 and 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . ' " this new clause would amend the Employment Rights Act 1996 to protect worker from adverse treatment on the ground that they be , or be suspect to be , a person affect by domestic abuse . new clause 3 — dismissal for reason relate to domestic abuse — " in Part 10 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , after section 99 , insert — ' 99b domestic abuse ( 1 ) a worker who be dismiss shall be regard for the purpose of this part as have be unfairly dismiss if the reason for the dismissal be that the worker have be , or be suspect to have be ― ( a ) a victim of domestic abuse ; or ( b ) affect directly by domestic abuse . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " domestic abuse " be define in accordance with section 1 and 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . ' " this new clause would amend the Employment Rights Act 1996 to protect worker from dismissal on the ground that they be , or be suspect to be , a victim or a person affect by domestic abuse . new clause 4 — employer to take all reasonable step to prevent domestic abuse — " after section 40a of the Equality Act 2010 ( employer duty to prevent sexual harassment of worker ) , insert — ' 40b Employer duty to prevent worker from experience domestic abuse ( 1 ) an employer ( a ) must take all reasonable step to prevent their worker from experience domestic abuse in the course of their employment . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " domestic abuse " be define in accordance with section 1 and 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . ' " this new clause would require employer to take all reasonable step to prevent their worker from experience domestic abuse . new clause 5 — employer to take all reasonable step to prevent domestic abuse ( contract worker ) — " after section 41 of the Equality Act 2010 ( contract worker ) , insert — ' 41a Employer duty to prevent worker from experience domestic abuse ( 1 ) an employer ( a ) must take all reasonable step to prevent a contract worker work for or on behalf of ( a ) from experience domestic abuse in the course of their engagement . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " domestic abuse " be define in accordance with section 1 and 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . ' " this new clause would require employer to take all reasonable step to prevent contract worker from experience domestic abuse . new clause 6 — workplace contravention of Equality Act : obtain information — " ( 1 ) in this section — ( a ) p be a worker who think that a contravention of the Equality Act 2010 have occur in relation to p ' s employment or working practice ; ( b ) r be p ' s employer and p think that r be responsible for the contravention mention in paragraph ( a ) . ( 2 ) a Minister of the Crown must by order prescribe — ( a ) form by which p may question r on any matter which be or may be relevant to subsection ( 1 ) ; ( b ) form by which r may answer question by p . ( 3 ) a question by p or an answer by R be admissible as evidence in proceeding under this Act ( whether or not the question or answer be contain in a prescribed form ) . ( 4 ) a court or tribunal may draw an inference from — ( a ) a failure by r to answer a question by p before the end of the period of 8 week begin with the day on which the question be serve ; ( b ) an evasive or equivocal answer . ( 5 ) subsection ( 4 ) do not apply if — ( a ) r reasonably assert that to have answer differently or at all might have prejudice a criminal matter ; ( b ) r reasonably assert that to have answer differently or at all would have reveal the reason for not commence or not continue criminal proceeding ; ( c ) r ' s answer be of a kind specify for the purpose of this paragraph by order of a Minister of the Crown ; ( d ) r ' s answer be give in circumstance specify for the purpose of this paragraph by order of a Minister of the Crown ; ( e ) r ' s failure to answer occur in circumstance specify for the purpose of this paragraph by order of a Minister of the Crown . ( 6 ) the reference to a contravention of the Equality Act 2010 include a reference to a breach of an equality clause or rule , insofar as it relate to employment or working practice . ( 7 ) a Minister of the Crown may by order — ( a ) prescribe the period within which a question must be serve to be admissible under subsection ( 3 ) ; ( b ) prescribe the manner in which a question by p , or an answer by r , may be serve . ( 8 ) this section — ( a ) do not affect any other enactment or rule of law relate to interim or preliminary matter in proceeding before a county court , the sheriff or an employment tribunal , and ( b ) have effect subject to any enactment or rule of law regulate the admissibility of evidence in such proceeding . " this new clause would reintroduce , for worker in relation to employer , the right to statutory Discrimination Questionnaires pursuant to the Equality Act 2010 regard age , disability , sex , race , sexual orientation , pregnancy and maternity , gender reassignment , religion or belief and marriage and civil partnership discrimination . new clause 7 — protect paternity or parental partner leave — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must consult on the introduction of protect paternity or parental partner leave for all employee . ( 2 ) a consultation under subsection ( 1 ) must consider ― ( a ) the minimum duration for a period of protect paternity or parental partner leave ; ( b ) how good to ensure that protect paternity or parental partner leave be protect , non - transferable and do not result in discrimination against the employee take that leave ; ( c ) how good to ensure that protect paternity or parental partner leave reduce the risk of employee experience discrimination as a result of be eligible for ordinary maternity leave ; and ( d ) the extent to which the cost to employer of protect paternity or parental partner leave should be reimburse , in full or in part , and the manner in which this should be achieve . ( 3 ) follow a consultation under subsection ( 2 ) , within twelve month of commence the consultation , the Secretary of State must by regulation ― ( a ) introduce protect paternity or parental partner leave , ensure that it be pay , protect and non - transferable ; ( b ) define the length of any period of protect paternity or parental partner leave under subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) ; and ( c ) make provision for any other matter the Secretary of State consider relevant to the matter under subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) and ( 3 ) ( b ) . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) " protect " leave mean leave during which an employer must not permit an employee who satisfy prescribe condition to work ; and ( b ) " parental partner leave " mean leave take for the purpose of care for a child , with the exception of maternity leave take under section 71 to 73 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 . ( 5 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) and ( 2 ) ( c ) , " discrimination " be define accord to section 13 to 19 of the Equality Act 2010 . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to consult on a period of protect paternity or parental partner leave , and require they to introduce protect paternity or parental partner leave by regulation at a subsequent date . new clause 10 — carer ' s leave : remuneration — " ( 1 ) in section 80 k of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , omit subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , " term and condition of employment " include — ( a ) matter connect with an employee ' s employment whether or not they arise under the contract of employment , and ( b ) term and condition about remuneration . " " this new clause would make Carer ' s leave a pay entitlement . new clause 12 — rate of statutory maternity pay , etc — " ( 1 ) in regulation 6 of the Statutory Maternity Pay ( General ) Regulations 1986 ( prescribe rate of statutory maternity pay ) for " £ 184 . 03 " substitute " £ 368 . 06 " . ( 2 ) in the Statutory Paternity Pay and Statutory Adoption Pay ( Weekly Rates ) Regulations 2002 — ( a ) in regulation 2 ( a ) ( weekly rate of payment of statutory paternity pay ) for " £ 184 . 03 " substitute " £ 368 . 06 " ; and ( b ) in regulation 3 ( a ) ( weekly rate of payment of statutory adoption pay ) for " £ 184 . 03 " substitute " £ 368 . 06 " . ( 3 ) in regulation 40 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Statutory Shared Parental Pay ( General ) Regulations 2014 ( weekly rate of payment of statutory share parental pay ) for " £ 184 . 03 " substitute " £ 368 . 06 " . ( 4 ) in regulation 20 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay ( General ) Regulations 2020 ( weekly rate of payment ) for " £ 184 . 03 " substitute " £ 368 . 06 " . " this new clause set out rate of Statutory Maternity Pay , Statutory Paternity Pay , Statutory Adoption Pay , Statutory Shared Parental Pay and Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay . new clause 13 — publication of information about parental leave policy : regulation — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make regulation to require any employer with more than 250 employee to publish information on the internet about the employer ' s policy on parental leave and pay for parental leave . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must be publish within one year of this Act be pass . ( 3 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative regulation procedure . " this new clause would require company with more than 250 employee to publish information about their parental leave and pay policy . new clause 14 — entitlement to paternity leave — " ( 1 ) the Employment Rights Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 80a ( entitlement to paternity leave : birth ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " two " substitute " six " , ( b ) in subsection ( 4 ) , for " 56 day " substitute " 52 week " . ( 3 ) in section 80b ( entitlement to paternity leave : adoption ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " two " substitute " six " ( b ) in subsection ( 4 ) , for " 56 day " substitute " 52 week " . " this new clause set out an entitlement to paternity leave . new clause 15 — whistleblower : protect disclosure — " in Part x of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , for section 103A , substitute — " 103a protect disclosure an employee who be dismiss shall be regard for the purpose of this part as unfairly dismiss if the reason ( or one of the reason ) for the dismissal be that the employee make a protect disclosure . " " this new clause would slightly extend the circumstance in which an employee be consider as unfairly dismiss after make a protect disclosure . new clause 16 — Adoption pay : self - employ person — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation enable statutory adoption pay to be payable to person who be — ( a ) self - employ , or ( b ) contractor . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , the meaning of " self - employ " and " contractor " shall be set out in regulation under this section . " this new clause extend statutory adoption pay to the self - employ and contractor . new clause 17 — meaning of " kinship care " — " ( 1 ) this section define " kinship care " for the purpose of section 80EF to 80ei of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( insert by section ( kinship care leave ) of this Act ) . ( 2 ) kinship care describe an arrangement where a child be raise by a friend , relative or extended family member other than a parent . ( 3 ) subsection ( 4 ) to ( 9 ) set out the arrangement that be recognise as be type of kinship care . ( 4 ) an arrangement where a child be adopt ( within the meaning of chapter 4 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002 ) by a friend , relative or extended family member ( " kinship adoption " ) . ( 5 ) an arrangement where — ( a ) a child be look after by a local authority ( within the meaning of section 22 of the Children Act 1989 ) , and ( b ) a friend , relative or extended family member of that child be approve by the local authority to be a foster carer for that child ( " kinship foster care " ) . ( 6 ) an arrangement create by a special guardianship order pursuant to section 14a of the Children Act 1989 ( " special guardianship " ) . ( 7 ) an arrangement create by a child arrangement order pursuant to section 8 of the Children Act 1989 where the court order that a child be to live predominantly with a friend , relative or extended family member of that child ( " kinship child arrangement " ) . ( 8 ) an arrangement where a child be foster privately ( within the meaning of section 66 of the Children Act 1989 ) by a friend or extended family member ( " private foster arrangement " ) . ( 9 ) any other arrangement where a child be care for , and provide with accommodation in their own home — ( a ) by a relative of the child , other than — ( i ) a parent of the child ; or ( ii ) a person who be not a parent of the child but who have parental responsibility for the child ; and ( b ) where the arrangement have last , or be intend to last , for at least 28 day ( " private family arrangement " ) . " this new clause be subsequent to the new clause about kinship care leave . new clause 18 — kinship care leave — " ( 1 ) the Employment Rights Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 80ee insert — " chapter 5 - kinship care leave " chapter 5 80ef Kinship care leave ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make regulation entitle an employee to be absent from work on leave under this section if the employee satisfy condition specify in the regulation as to an eligible kinship care arrangement with a child . ( 2 ) the regulation must include provision for determine — ( a ) the extent of an employee ' s entitlement to leave under this section in respect of a child ; ( b ) when leave under this section may be take . ( 3 ) provision under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) must secure that — ( a ) where only one employee be entitle to leave under this section in respect of a give child , the employee be entitle to at least 52 week ' leave ; ( b ) where more than one employee be entitle to leave under this section in respect of the same child , those employee be entitle to share at least 52 week ' leave between they . ( 4 ) an employee be entitle to leave under this section only if the eligible kinship care arrangement be intend to last — ( a ) at least one year , and ( b ) until the child be care for attain the age of 18 . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this chapter , " eligible kinship care arrangement " mean — ( a ) special guardianship , ( b ) a kinship child arrangement , ( c ) a private foster arrangement , or ( d ) a private family arrangement within the meaning give by section [ meaning of ' kinship care ' ] of the Employment Rights Act 2024 . ( 6 ) the regulation may make provision about how leave under this section be to be take . ( 7 ) in this section — ( a ) " special guardianship " , " kinship child arrangement " , " private foster arrangement " and " private family arrangement " have the same meaning as in section [ meaning of ' kinship care ' ] of the Employment Rights Act 2024 . ( b ) " week " mean any period of seven day . 80eg right during and after kinship care leave ( 1 ) regulation under section 80ef must provide — ( a ) that an employee who be absent on leave under that section be entitle , for such purpose and to such extent as the regulation may prescribe , to the benefit of the term and condition of employment which would have apply but for the absence , ( b ) that an employee who be absent on leave under that section be bind , for such purpose and to such extent as the regulation may prescribe , by obligation arise under those term and condition ( except in so far as they be inconsistent with subsection ( 1 ) of that section ) , and ( c ) that an employee who be absent on leave under that section be entitle to return from leave to a job of a kind prescribe by regulation , subject to section 80eh . ( 2 ) the reference in subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) to absence on leave under section 80EF include , where appropriate , a reference to a continuous period of absence attributable partly to leave under that section and partly to any one or more of the following — ( a ) maternity leave , ( b ) paternity leave , ( c ) adoption leave , ( d ) share parental leave , ( e ) parental leave , ( f ) parental bereavement leave . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , " term and condition of employment " — ( a ) include matter connect with an employee ' s employment whether or not they arise under the contract of employment , but ( b ) do not include term and condition about remuneration . ( 4 ) regulation under section 80ef may specify matter which be , or be not , to be treat as remuneration for the purpose of this section . ( 5 ) regulation under section 80ef may make provision , in relation to the right to return mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , about — ( a ) seniority , pension right and similar right ; ( b ) term and condition of employment on return . 80eh special case ( 1 ) regulation under section 80ef may make provision about — ( a ) redundancy during or after a period of leave under that section , or ( b ) dismissal ( other than by reason of redundancy ) during a period of leave under that section . ( 2 ) provision by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) may include — ( a ) provision require an employer to offer alternative employment ; ( b ) provision for the consequence of failure to comply with the regulation ( which may include provision for a dismissal to be treat as unfair for the purpose of Part 10 ) . 80ei chapter 5 : supplemental ( 1 ) regulation under section 80EF may — ( a ) make provision about notice to be give , evidence to be produce and other procedure to be follow by employee and employer ; ( b ) make provision require employer or employee to keep record ; ( c ) make provision for the consequence of failure to give notice , to produce evidence , to keep record or to comply with other procedural requirement ; ( d ) make provision for the consequence of failure to act in accordance with a notice give by virtue of paragraph ( a ) ; ( e ) make special provision for case where an employee have a right which correspond to a right under section80EF and which arise under the person ' s contract of employment or otherwise ; ( f ) make provision modify the effect of chapter 2 of Part 14 ( calculation of a week ' s pay ) in relation to an employee who be or have be absent from work on leave under section 80ef ; ( g ) make provision apply , modify or exclude an enactment , in such circumstance as may be specify and subject to any condition which may be specify , in relation to a person entitle to take leave under section 80ef ; ( h ) make different provision for different case or circumstance ; ( i ) make consequential provision . ( 2 ) the case or circumstance mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( h ) include — ( a ) more than one child be subject to the same eligible kinship care arrangement , and ( b ) a child be subject to an eligible kinship care arrangement on two or more separate occasion , and regulation may , in particular , make special provision regard the applicability and extent of the entitlement to leave in such circumstance . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision for some or all of a period of kinship care leave to be pay . " " this new clause set out an entitlement to kinship care leave . new clause 20 — duty to prevent violence and harassment in the workplace — " ( 1 ) section 2 of the Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 2 ) ( e ) insert — ' ( f ) the adoption of proactive and preventative measure to protect all person work in their workplace from violence and harassment , include — ( i ) gender - base violence ; ( ii ) sexual harassment ; ( iii ) psychological and emotional abuse ; ( iv ) physical and sexual abuse ; ( v ) stalking and harassment , include online harassment ; ( vi ) threat of violence . ' ( 3 ) after subsection ( 3 ) insert — ' ( 3A ) it shall be the duty of every employer to prepare , and as often as may be appropriate revise , an assessment to identify potential risk of violence and harassment in the workplace and implement policy and procedure to eliminate these risk so far as be reasonably practicable . ( 3b ) it shall be the duty of every employer to provide training to all employee on recognise and prevent violence and harassment in the workplace , with a focus on gender - responsive approach . ( 3c ) in subsection ( 3b ) a " gender - responsive approach " mean take into account the various need , interest , and experience of people of different gender identity , include woman and girl , when design and implement policy and procedure . ( 3d ) in this section , " person work in the workplace " include — ( a ) employee ; ( b ) full - time , part - time , and temporary worker ; and ( c ) intern and apprentice . ( 3e ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( f ) and subsection ( 3A ) and ( 3b ) , a reference to the workplace include remote and hybrid work environment . ' " this new clause will amend the Health and Safety at Work etc . act 1974 to place a duty on employer to protect all those work in their workplace from gender - base violence and harassment . new clause 21 — expand duty of the Health and Safety Executive — " in the Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 , after section 11 ( function of the Executive ) insert — ' 11ZA Duties of the Executive : health and safety framework on violence and harassment ( 1 ) it shall be the duty of the Executive to develop , publish and as often as may be appropriate revise a health and safety framework on violence and harassment in the workplace . ( 2 ) this framework shall include specific provision relate to — ( a ) the prevention of gender - base violence and harassment of those in the workplace include the prevention of physical , emotional , and psychological abuse ; ( b ) the duty of employer to create safe and inclusive workplace and the preventative measure they must adopt ; and ( c ) the use of monitoring and enforcement mechanism to ensure compliance with the duty of the employer in relation to violence and harassment ( see section 2 ( 2 ) ( f ) ) . ( 3 ) the Executive shall work with other relevant body , include the Equality and Human Rights Commission and law enforcement agency , to develop and revise this framework . 11zb duty of the Executive : guidance for employer the Executive shall , in consultation with such other person as it consider to be relevant , issue guidance for employer about the protection of those face violence and harassment on the basis of gender in the workplace by — ( a ) implement workplace policy to prevent violence and harassment ; ( b ) establish confidential reporting mechanism to allow victim to report incident ; ( c ) conduct risk assessment and ensure compliance with the health and safety framework ( see section 11ZA ) ; ( d ) reporting and address incident of violence and harassment ; and ( e ) support victim of violence and harassment , include make accommodation in the workplace to support such victim . ' " this new clause will create a duty on the Health and Safety Executive to develop a health and safety framework on violence and harassment and to issue guidance for employer about the protection of those face violence and harassment on the basis of gender in the workplace . new clause 22 — duty of employer to prepare domestic abuse policy — " ( 1 ) it be the duty of every employer to develop , publish and as often as may be appropriate revise a write statement of its general policy with respect to the support it provide to worker who be victim of domestic abuse . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision for determine — ( a ) the scope of a domestic abuse policy ; ( b ) the form and manner in which a domestic abuse policy be to be publish ; ( c ) when and how frequently a domestic abuse policy be to be publish or revise ; ( d ) requirement for senior approval before a domestic abuse policy be publish . ( 3 ) the regulation may make provision for a failure to comply with subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) to be an offence punishable on summary conviction — ( i ) in England and Wales by a fine ; ( ii ) in Scotland or Northern Ireland by a fine not exceed level 5 on the standard scale ; ( b ) to be enforce , otherwise than as an offence , by such mean as may be prescribe . ( 4 ) the regulation may not require an employer to revise the policy more frequently than at interval of 24 month . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section , ' domestic abuse ' be define in accordance with section 1 and 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . ( 6 ) this section do not apply to an employer who have few than 5 employee . ( 7 ) regulation under this section must be make no later than twelve month after the passage of this Act . " this new clause would create a duty on employer with 5 or more employee to have a policy outline the support they provide to worker who be victim of domestic abuse . new clause 23 — prescribed rate of statutory maternity pay — " in regulation 6 of the Statutory Maternity Pay ( General ) Regulations 1986 , delete ' be a weekly rate of £ 184 . 03 ' and insert ' be a rate of £ 12 . 60 per hour in the UK and £ 13 . 85 per hour in London ' . " this new clause would increase the current rate of statutory maternity pay , bring it in line with the " real Living wage " . new clause 25 — Working Time Council — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passage of this Act , establish a Working Time Council ( ' the Council ' ) to provide advice and make recommendation to the Secretary of State on the matter specify in subsection ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) the member of the Council — ( a ) be to be appoint by the Secretary of State , and ( b ) must include representative of — ( i ) trade union ; ( ii ) business ; ( iii ) government department ; and ( iv ) expert on matter relate to employment . ( 3 ) each member of the Council must hold and vacate office in accordance with the term and condition of the member ' s appointment . ( 4 ) the Council must provide advice and make recommendation on how a transition could be make from a five - day working week to a four - day working week with no impact on pay , include — ( a ) how such a transition would affect employer and employee , and ( b ) how business , public body and other organisation should approach such a transition . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may pay such remuneration or allowance to member of the Council as the Secretary of State may determine . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to establish a Working Time Council to provide advice and recommendation on the transition from a five - day working week to a four - day working week . new clause 27 — flexible working duty : report on compliance — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , once every six month , report on compliance with the duty under section 80 g of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( employer ' s duty in relation to application for change to work hour , etc ) . ( 2 ) the first report must be publish and lay before Parliament within six month of this Act be pass . ( 3 ) each further report must be publish and lay before Parliament within six month of the last such report be publish . " this new clause would require the Government to report on employer ' compliance with the flexible work duty set out in this Bill . new clause 30 — special constable : right to time off for public duty — " ( 1 ) the Employment Rights Act 1996 be amend be follow . ( 2 ) in section 50 ( right to time off for public duty ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) an employer shall permit an employee who be a special constable , appoint in accordance with section 27 of the Police Act 1996 , section 9 of the Police and Fire Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2012 or section 25 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003 , to take time off during the employee ' s work hour for the purpose of perform their duty . ( 1b ) in section ( 1A ) , " duty " mean any activity under the direction of a chief officer of police . ' " this new clause give employee who be special constable the right to time off to carry out their police duty . new clause 61 — Status of Workers — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) omit section 145f ( 3 ) . ( 3 ) omit section 151 ( 1b ) . ( 4 ) omit section 295 ( meaning of employee and related expression ) and 296 ( meaning of worker and related expression ) and insert — ' 295 meaning of worker and related expression ( 1 ) in this Act — ( a ) " worker " and " employee " both mean an individual who — ( i ) seek to be engage by another to provide labour , ( ii ) be engage by another to provide labour , or ( iii ) where the employment have cease , be engage by another to provide labour , and be not , in the provision of that labour , operate a business on the employee or worker ' s own account ; ( b ) an " employer " in relation to a worker or employee be ─ ( i ) every person or entity who engage or engage the worker or employee , and ( ii ) every person or entity who substantially determine term on which the worker or employee be engage at any material time ; ( c ) " employ " and " employment mean engage as an " employee " or as a " worker " under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) ; ( d ) " contract of employment " mean a contract or employment relationship , however describe , whereby an individual undertake to do or perform any labour , work or service for another party to the contract or employment relationship whose status be not by virtue of the contract or employment relationship that of a client or customer of any profession or business undertaking carry on by the individual , and any reference to the contract or employment relationship of an employee or a worker shall be construe accordingly ; ( e ) the ascertainment of the existence of a contract of employment or employment relationship shall be guide primarily by the fact relate to the performance of work , irrespective of how the contract or employment relationship be designate in any contractual or other arrangement by one or more of the party involve ; ( f ) in ascertain the existence of a contract of employment or employment relationship , all relevant fact may be take into consideration but the follow fact , if find , may be consider indicative of the existence of a contract of employment and the presence of any such fact shall raise the rebuttable presumption that the arrangement be a contract of employment — ( i ) the use , by a person other than the putative worker , of automate monitoring system or automate decision - make system in the organisation of work ; ( ii ) the work be carry out accord to the instruction and under the control of another entity ; ( iii ) the work involve the integration of the worker in the organisation of another entity ; ( iv ) the work be perform solely or mainly for the benefit of another entity ; ( v ) the work be to be do , or be in fact do , predominantly by the worker personally ; ( vi ) the work involve the provision of tool , material and equipment by an entity other than the worker ; ( vii ) the worker be to a significant extent subordinate to and economically dependent on the entity for which the work be do ; ( viii ) the determination of the worker ' s rate of remuneration and other significant term and condition be wholly or mainly that of an entity other than the worker and , in any event , significantly outweigh the power of the worker to determine his or her rate of remuneration and other significant term and condition ; ( ix ) the worker ' s remuneration and other term and condition be not determine by collective bargaining ; ( x ) the financial risk of the entity for which the work be do be not to any significant extent those of the worker beyond his or her interest in secure far remunerate work ; ( xi ) the worker have no significant capital investment in the entity for which the work be do beyond the provision of tool and equipment necessary for the worker to perform the work ; ( xii ) the remuneration for the work do constitute the worker ' s sole or one of their principal source of income ; ( xiii ) part of the remuneration be in kind , such as food , lodging or transport . ( 2 ) it be for a person who be claim to be the employer and contest that claim to demonstrate in any legal proceeding that — ( a ) they be not the employer , or ( b ) the person provide the work be not an employee or a worker . ( 3 ) subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) apply to all employment of a government department , except for member of the armed force . ( 4 ) a person undertake the work of a foster carer shall be treat as a ' worker ' for the purpose of this Act . ( 5 ) an entitlement on the part of a person to substitute the labour of another for his or her own labour shall be ignore in determine whether he or she be a worker or employee . ( 6 ) where a worker or employee provide labour through a personal service company the employer be the third party for whom the labour be perform . ( 7 ) a " personal service company " mean a company — ( a ) in which the worker or employee be a director , or a substantial shareholding be hold by the worker or employee , by themself or by or with a member of the family of the worker or employee , or by or with a third party for whom the labour be or be perform , or a nominee or nominee of such a third party ; and ( b ) which have contract with the worker or employee to provide their labour to a third party or party nominate by the company ; and ( c ) in relation to which the term and condition on which the worker or employee be or be engage to perform the labour be or be substantially determine by any third party for whom the labour be or be to be perform , by itself or jointly with another person or entity ; and ( d ) in which the status of any third party for whom the labour be or be to be perform be not in practice that of a client or customer of the profession or business undertaking carry on by the worker or employee . ( 8 ) an employer that employ , or propose to engage , an individual to carry out work must not represent to the individual that the contract under which the individual be , or would be , engage by the employer be a contract for service under which the individual perform , or would perform , work as an independent contractor if that be not the case . ( 9 ) subsection ( 8 ) do not apply if the employer demonstrate that , when the representation be make , the employer reasonably believe that the contract be a contract for service . ( 10 ) in determine , for the purpose of subsection ( 9 ) , whether the employer ' s belief be reasonable , regard must be have to all relevant circumstance include the size and nature of the employer ' s enterprise . ( 11 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation designate as " worker " other person engage in work , and designate as " employer " other entity engage in the provision of work , after consultation with organisation which appear to the Secretary of State to represent such person and entity and any such regulation must be make by statutory instrument , ( 12 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under sub - paragraph ( 11 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 12 ) this section have effect subject to section 68 ( 4 ) , 116B ( 10 ) and 235 . ' " new clause 62 — Procedure for handle dismissal and re - engagement — " ( 1 ) the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after chapter I ( collective bargaining ) , insert — " chapter 1A - Procedure for handle Dismissal and re - Engagement " chapter 1A 187A Duty of employer to consult representative ( 1 ) this section apply to an employer where , in an undertaking or establishment with 50 or more employee , in the light of recent event or information and the economic situation affect the employer , there be a threat to continue employment within the undertaking , and one or both of the follow matter apply — ( a ) decision may have to be take to terminate the contract of or more employee for reason other than conduct or capability , or ( b ) anticipatory measure be envisage which be likely to lead to substantial change in work organisation or in contractual relation affect or more employee . ( 2 ) the employer shall consult with a view to reach an agreement to avoid decision be take to terminate contract of employment , or to introduce change in work organisation or in contractual relation . ( 3 ) the consultation under subsection ( 2 ) shall take place with all the person who be appropriate representative of any of the employee who be or may be affect by those matter that apply . ( 4 ) the consultation shall begin as soon as be reasonably practicable and in good time for any agreement to be reach so as to avoid decision be take to terminate contract of employment or introduce change in work organisation or in contractual relation . ( 5 ) the employer shall allow the appropriate representative access to the affected employee and shall afford to those representative such accommodation and other facility as may be appropriate . ( 6 ) in this section , " appropriate representative " have the same meaning as in section 188 ( 1b ) ( and the requirement for the election of employee representative in section 188a apply ) . ( 7 ) if there be special circumstance which render it not reasonably practicable for the employer to comply with a requirement of this section , the employer shall take all such step towards compliance with that requirement as be reasonably practicable in those circumstance . ( 8 ) where the threat to continue employment emanate from a person control the employer ( directly or indirectly ) , or a decision lead to the termination of the contract of an employee for reason other than conduct or capability or a decision lead to substantial change in work organisation or in contractual relation be that of a person control the employer ( directly or indirectly ) , a failure on the part of that person to provide information to the employer shall not constitute special circumstance render it not reasonably practicable for the employer to comply with such a requirement . 187B Duty of employer to disclose information ( 1 ) an employer to which section 187A apply shall , for the purpose of the consultation provide for in section 187A , disclose to the appropriate representative , on request , the information require by this section . ( 2 ) the information to be disclose be all information relate to the employer ' s undertaking ( include information relate to use of agency worker in that undertaking ) which be in the employer ' s possession , or that of an associated employer , and be information — ( a ) without which the appropriate representative would be to a material extent impede in carry on consultation with the employer , and ( b ) which it would be in accordance with good industrial relation practice that the employer should disclose for the purpose of the consultation . ( 3 ) a request by appropriate representative for information under this section shall , if the employer so request , be in writing or be confirm in writing . ( 4 ) in determine what would be in accordance with good industrial relation practice , regard shall be have to the relevant provision of any Code of Practice issue by ACAS , but not so as to exclude any other evidence of what that practice be . ( 5 ) information which an employer be require by virtue of this section to disclose to appropriate representative shall , if they so request , be disclose or confirm in writing . ( 6 ) the employer be not require to disclose any information or document to a person for the purpose of this section where the nature of the information or document be such that , accord to objective criterion , the disclosure of the information or document would seriously harm the functioning of , or would be prejudicial to , the undertaking . ( 7 ) if there be a dispute between the employer and an employee or an appropriate representative as to whether the nature of the information or document which the employer have fail to provide be such as be describe in subsection ( 6 ) , the employer , employee or appropriate representative may apply to the Central Arbitration Committee for a declaration as to whether the information or document be of such a nature . ( 8 ) if the Committee make a declaration that the disclosure of the information or document in question would not , accord to objective criterion , be seriously harmful or prejudicial as mention in subsection ( 5 ) the Committee shall order the employer to disclose the information or document . ( 9 ) an order under subsection ( 8 ) shall specify — ( a ) the information or document to be disclose ; ( b ) the person or person to whom the information or document be to be disclose ; ( c ) any term on which the information or document be to be disclose ; and ( d ) the date before which the information or document be to be disclose . 187c Complaint to Central Arbitration Committee ( 1 ) an appropriate representative may present a complaint to the Central Arbitration Committee that an employer have fail to comply with a requirement of section 187A or section 187B . the complaint must be in writing and in such form as the Committee may require . ( 2 ) if on receipt of a complaint the Committee be of the opinion that it be reasonably likely to be settle by conciliation , it shall refer the complaint to ACAS and shall notify the appropriate representative and employer accordingly , whereupon ACAS shall seek to promote a settlement of the matter . if a complaint so refer be not settle or withdraw and ACAS be of the opinion that further attempt at conciliation be unlikely to result in a settlement , it shall inform the Committee of its opinion . ( 3 ) if the complaint be not refer to ACAS or , if it be so refer , on ACAS inform the Committee of its opinion that further attempt at conciliation be unlikely to result in a settlement , the Committee shall proceed to hear and determine the complaint and shall make a declaration state whether it find the complaint well - found , wholly or in part , and state the reason for its finding . ( 4 ) on the hearing of a complaint any person who the Committee consider have an interest in the complaint may be hear by the Committee , but a failure to accord a hearing to a person other than the appropriate representative and employer directly concerned do not affect the validity of any decision of the Committee in those proceeding . ( 5 ) if the Committee find the complaint wholly or partly well - found , the declaration shall specify ─ ( a ) each failure in respect of which the Committee find that the complaint be well - found ( b ) the step that should be take by the employer to rectify each such failure , and ( c ) a period or period ( not be less than one week from the date of the declaration ) within which the employer ought to take those step . ( 6 ) on a hearing of a complaint under this section a certificate sign by or on behalf of a Minister of the Crown and certify that particular information could not be provide except by disclose information the disclosure of which would have be against the interest of national security shall be conclusive evidence of that fact . a document which purport to be such a certificate shall be take to be such a certificate unless the contrary be prove . 187D Application for injunction pende rectification of failure ( 1 ) this section apply if a declaration of the Central Arbitration Committee under section 187c find a complaint wholly or partly well - found . ( 2 ) an appropriate representative may apply to the Court for an injunction to subsist until the employer can satisfy the Committee that the step under section 187c ( 5 ) ( b ) have be complete within the specify period or period under section 187c ( 5 ) ( c ) — ( a ) to compel the employer to take those step within the period or period , or ( b ) to render void any dismissal or change in work organisation or in contractual relation . 187e Complaint to employment tribunal ( 1 ) this section apply where an employer — ( a ) offer or propose to offer re - engagement on different term to an employee — ( i ) it have dismiss or propose to dismiss for reason other than conduct or capability , or ( ii ) in relation to whom it have make or propose to make substantial change in work organisation or in contractual relation ; or ( b ) have fail to comply with any of the obligation set out in section 187A or 187B . ( 2 ) any affect employee or their appropriate representative may make a complaint to the employment tribunal . ( 3 ) if the tribunal find the complaint well - found it shall make a declaration to that effect . 187f Award of compensation ( 1 ) an employee , or the appropriate representative of an employee , whose complaint under section 187e have be declare to be well - found may make an application to an employment tribunal for an award of compensation to be pay by the employer . ( 2 ) the amount of compensation award shall , subject to the follow provision , be such as the employment tribunal consider just and equitable in all the circumstance have regard any loss sustain by the complainant which be attributable to the dismissal or substantial change in work organisation or in contractual relation to which the complaint relate . 187 G Duty of employer to notify Secretary of State in certain circumstance ( 1 ) this section apply to an employer to which section 187A apply in relation to 50 or more employee at one establishment or undertaking . ( 2 ) the employer shall notify the Secretary of State , in writing , of the matter under section 187a ( 1 ) that apply and any related proposal not later than the end of whichever be the long of — ( a ) 45 day , or ( b ) the notice period necessary to terminate lawfully the employment of all those employee who may be affect by any such matter before any decision to put into effect that matter be reach . ( 3 ) a notice under this section shall — ( a ) be give to the Secretary of State by delivery or by send it by post , at such address as the Secretary of State may direct in relation to the establishment where employee who may be affect be employ , ( b ) where there be representative to be consult under section 187a ( 2 ) , identify they and state the date when consultation with they under that section begin or will begin , and ( c ) be in such form and contain such particular , in addition to those require by paragraph ( b ) , as the Secretary of State may direct . ( 4 ) after receive a notice under this section from an employer the Secretary of State may by write notice require the employer to give they such further information as may be specify in the notice . ( 5 ) where there be representative to be consult under section 187a ( 2 ) the employer shall give to each of they a copy of any notice give under subsection ( 3 ) . the copy shall be deliver to they or send by post to an address notify by they to the employer , or ( in the case of representative of a trade union ) send by post to the union at the address of its head or main office . ( 6 ) if in any case there be special circumstance render it not reasonably practicable for the employer to comply with any of the requirement of subsection ( 1 ) to ( 5 ) , the employer shall take all such step towards compliance with that requirement as be reasonably practicable in the circumstance . where the decision regard the matter be that of a person control the employer ( directly or indirectly ) , a failure on the part of that person to provide information to the employer shall not constitute special circumstance render it not reasonably practicable for the employer to comply with any of those requirement . 187H failure to notify ( 1 ) an employer who fail to give notice to the Secretary of State in accordance with section 187 g commit an offence and be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed level 5 on the standard scale . ( 2 ) proceeding in England or Wales for such an offence shall be institute only by or with the consent of the Secretary of State or by an officer authorise for that purpose by special or general direction of the Secretary of State . an officer so authorised may prosecute or conduct proceeding for such an offence before a magistrate ' court . ( 3 ) where an offence under this section commit by a body corporate be prove to have be commit with the consent or connivance of , or to be attributable to neglect on the part of , any director , manager , secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate , or any person purport to act in any such capacity , that person as well as the body corporate be guilty of the offence and liable to be proceed against and punish accordingly . ( 4 ) where the affair of a body corporate be manage by its member , subsection ( 3 ) apply in relation to the act and default of a member in connection with their function of management as if they be a director of the body corporate . " new clause 63 — protection of contract of employment — " ( 1 ) the Employment Rights Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after Part IIA ( zero hour worker ) insert — " Part 2AA - Protection of Contracts of Employment " Part 2aa 27ba ( 1 ) any variation to an employment contract be void if it — ( a ) be obtain under the threat of dismissal , and ( b ) be less favourable to the employee than the pre - exist provision , unless the employer have comply with all its obligation under , and arise from , section 187a to 187 g of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 in relation to any person employ under the contract . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , the definition of " less favourable " shall be determine by the perception of a reasonable employee in the position of the affected employee . 27bb unilateral variation of employment contract ( 1 ) any provision in an agreement ( whether an employment contract or not ) be void in so far as it purport to permit the employer to vary unilaterally one or more term within an employment contract where the variation be less favourable to the employee that the pre - exist provision . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , the definition of " less favourable " shall be determine by the perception of a reasonable employee in the position of the affect employee . ( 3 ) in chapter I ( right not to be unfairly dismiss ) , after section 104 g insert — ( 3 ) in chapter I ( right not to be unfairly dismiss ) , after section 104 g insert — " 104H Refusal of variation of contractual term ( 1 ) in relation to an employee who claim to have be unfairly dismiss in circumstance in which the reason ( or , if more than one , the principal reason ) for the dismissal be that the employee have refuse to agree to a variation of contractual term — ( a ) section 98 ( 1 ) ( b ) shall not apply save that it shall be for the employer to show that the reason for the dismissal fall within section 98 ( 2 ) ; ( b ) section 108 ( 1 ) shall not apply . 104i Matters for consultation under section 187c of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( 2 ) an employee who be dismiss shall be regard for the purpose of this part as unfairly dismiss if — ( a ) the Central Arbitration Committee have make a declaration under section 187c of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 in respect of the employer and employee , and the employer have not comply with the step in that declaration , or ( b ) the employer have fail , in respect of the employee , to comply with a provision of a collective agreement applicable to a matter for consultation under section 187a of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . " ( 4 ) in section 116 ( unfair dismissal : choice of order and its term ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3A ) if an employee have be unfairly dismiss and the reason ( or , if more than one , the principal reason ) the dismissal be unfair be one specify under section 104H or 104I , the tribunal may only find that it be not practicable for — ( a ) the employer to comply with an order for reinstatement under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , or ( b ) the employer ( or a successor or an associated employer ) to comply with an order for re - engagement if the employer ( or if appropriate a successor or an associated employer ) would be likely to become insolvent within three month if such an order be make . " ( 5 ) in section 128 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( i ) ( interim relief pende determination of complaint ) , for " or 103A " substitute " 103A , 104H or 104I " . ( 6 ) in section 129 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( i ) ( procedure on hearing of application and making of order ) , for " or 103A " substitute " 103A , 104H or 104I " . " new clause 71 — Review of Statutory Sick Pay cost — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must consult on how the Government can well support small employer with Statutory Sick Pay cost . ( 2 ) the consultation under subsection ( 1 ) must consider the economic effect of increase Statutory Sick Pay for small employer with 250 employee or less , include the effect on — ( a ) productivity ; ( b ) long - term illness ; ( c ) benefit spending ; and ( d ) economic growth & tax revenue . ( 3 ) follow a consultation under subsection ( 2 ) , within twelve month of commence the consultation , the Secretary of State must report to Parliament on action take to implement the finding of the report of the consultation . " this new clause would require the Government to consult on how good to support small employer with statutory sick pay cost while take into account the wide economic effect of increase it . new clause 72 — duty on employer to investigate protect disclosure — " ( 1 ) Part 4A of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( protect disclosure ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) in section 43c ( disclosure to employer or other responsible person ) , after subsection ( 2 ) insert ― " ( 3 ) employer must take reasonable step to investigate any disclosure make to they under this section . ( 4 ) employer with ― ( a ) 50 or more employee ; ( b ) an annual business turnover or annual balance sheet total of £ 10 million or more ; ( c ) operation in financial service ; or ( d ) vulnerability in other respect to money laundering or terrorist financing , must establish internal channel and procedure for report and manage qualifying disclosure . ( 5 ) the calculation of the number of employee under subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) include employee of all franchise , subsidiary and associate employer as define under section 231 of this Act . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the commencement of this provision , set out in statutory guidance what " reasonable step " under subsection ( 3 ) should include . " ( 3 ) in section 48 ( complaint to employment tribunal ) , after subsection ( 1B ) , insert ― " ( 1c ) a worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the worker ' s employer have fail to comply with the duty in section 43c ( duty to investigate protect disclosure ) . " ( 4 ) in section 49 ( Remedies ) , after subsection ( 1A ) , insert ― " ( 1b ) where an employment tribunal be satisfied that an employer have contravene the duty set out in section 43c ( duty to investigate ) , the tribunal ― ( a ) shall make a declaration to that effect , and ( b ) may make an award of compensation to be pay by the employer to the complainant in respect of the failure and may increase any award payable to the complainant by no more than 25 % . " " this new clause would create a duty on employer to investigate whistleblowing concern , to establish internal channel for report and manage whistleblow disclosure , and enable tribunal claim with respect to contravention of those duty . new clause 73 — hourly statutory sick pay — " ( 1 ) part 11 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 ( statutory sick pay ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 151 ( Employer ' s liability ) , insert — " 151A Hourly statutory sick pay ( 1 ) where an employee have an hour of incapacity for work in relation to his contract of service with an employer , that employer shall , if the condition set out in section 153 and 154 be satisfied , be liable to make he , in accordance with the follow provision of this Part of this Act , a payment ( to be know as " hourly statutory sick pay " ) in respect of that hour . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section an hour of incapacity for work in relation to a contract of service mean an hour during which the employee concern be , or be deem in accordance with regulation to be , incapable by reason of some specific disease or bodily or mental disablement of do work which he can reasonably be expect to do under that contract . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make any amendment to this Part that be necessary to enable the operation of a system of hourly statutory sick pay . " " this new clause introduce a new define term " hourly statutory sick pay " , enable pro rata payment of statutory sick pay by the hour . this will give employer great flexibility in ssp payment , which can currently only be pay in whole day . new clause 74 — non - disclosure agreement : harassment — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , make change by regulation to ensure that an agreement to which this section apply be void insofar as it purport to preclude the worker from make a relevant disclosure . ( 2 ) this section apply to any agreement between a worker and the worker ' s employer ( whether a worker ' s contract or not ) , include — ( a ) any proceeding for breach of contract ; ( b ) a non - disclosure agreement ; or ( c ) a non - disparagement agreement . ( 3 ) Regulations make under this section ― ( a ) must not prevent a worker from be grant confidentiality protection associate with a settlement agreement , if those protection be make at the worker ' s request ; and ( b ) must replicate or enhance the protection offer to worker by section 1 of the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , with respect to non - disclosure agreement and harassment , but must apply those protection to all worker . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) " relevant disclosure " mean any disclosure of information which , in the reasonable belief of the worker make the disclosure , show that harassment have be commit , be be commit or be likely to be commit , by a fellow worker or a client of the employer ; ( b ) " harassment " mean any act of harassment as define by section 26 of the Equality Act 2010 . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make regulation to void any non - disclosure agreement insofar as it prevent the worker from make a disclosure about harassment ( include sexual harassment ) , with relevant exception at the worker ' s request . new clause 75 — statutory sick pay : consultation on rate — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must consult on the rate of Statutory Sick Pay . ( 2 ) a consultation under subsection ( 1 ) must conclude within six month of its commencement . ( 3 ) a consultation under subsection ( 1 ) must consider ― ( a ) the rate at which Statutory Sick Pay should be set to ensure that employee be able to — ( i ) cover their basic need without fall into negative budget ; ( ii ) recover from an illness ; and ( iii ) remain in work while manage their disability or long - term health condition ; ( b ) how good to phase in increase to Statutory Sick Pay over a five year period ; ( c ) the support that the Government could offer small business for long - term absence or to improve the health of their workforce ; and ( d ) the support that the Government could offer to encourage well insurance protection for business to manage staff absence . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to hold a consultation on the rate of Statutory Sick Pay . new clause 76 — statutory sick pay : gradual increase — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passage of this Act , commence a five year period of annual increase to the rate of Statutory Sick Pay . ( 2 ) at the end of the five year period under subsection ( 1 ) , the rate of Statutory Sick Pay must be no less than 80 % of the National Living Wage . ( 3 ) the annual increase under subsection ( 1 ) must be incremental , with each annual increase represent at least 10 % of the overall increase require over the five year period . " this new clause would gradually increase the rate of Statutory Sick Pay over the next five year , take it to at least 80 % of rate of the National Living Wage . new clause 78 — access to employment right : worker on temporary visa — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of this Act be pass , commission an independent report on the extent to which worker on temporary visa be able to assert their right under employment law . ( 2 ) in commission the report , the Secretary of State must arrange for the report to meet the requirement set out in subsection ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . ( 3 ) the report must examine the extent to which worker on temporary visa feel unable to assert their employment right because they be dependent on their employer to sponsor their visa . ( 4 ) the report must make recommendation to the Secretary of State about how the Secretary of State can support worker on temporary visa in the assertion of their employment right . ( 5 ) the report must be complete within three month of be commission . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must , as soon as be practicable after receipt of the report , publish the report and lie it before both Houses of Parliament . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State must , within three month of receipt of the report — ( a ) respond to the recommendation in the report , and ( b ) publish the response and lie it before both Houses of Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission a report ensure that worker on temporary visa be able to assert their right under employment law in order to prevent abusive practice . new clause 79 — duty to prevent and monitor sexual harassment in the workplace — " ( 1 ) section 2 of the Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 2 ) ( e ) insert — " ( f ) the adoption of proactive and preventative measure to protect all person work in their workplace from sexual harassment ; and ( g ) the monitoring of sexual harassment in the workplace . " this new clause would require the Health and Safety Executive to prevent and monitor sexual harassment in the workplace . new clause 80 — single status of worker : review — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must conduct a review of Government policy on the single status of worker , and how it affect the ability to access the right provide for by this Act . ( 2 ) the review must be publish and lay before Parliament within six month of this section come into force . " this new clause call on the Secretary of State to review the Government ' s policy on the single status of worker within 6 month of this section come into force . new clause 81 — modern slavery in UK workplace : review — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must conduct a review of — ( a ) the extent to which employee in UK workplace be subject to modern slavery as a result of the action of their employer , and ( b ) the effectiveness of employment right in prevent modern slavery in UK workplace . ( 2 ) the review must be publish and lay before Parliament within six month of this section come into force . " this new clause ask the Secretary of State to conduct a review of modern slavery to ensure that the employment right grant in the Act be effective in prevent modern slavery . new clause 83 — impact on employment tribunal : section 1 to 6 — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must conduct a review of — ( a ) the impact of section 1 to 6 on the operation of employment tribunal , and ( b ) the ability of employment tribunal to manage any increase in application result from those section . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must lay the review make under subsection ( 1 ) and the Government ' s response to the review before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to conduct a review of the impact on the employment tribunal of the Bill ' s provision on zero hour worker . new clause 84 — consultation and assessment on the right to request flexible working — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must carry out an assessment of the likely impact of the right to request flexible working provide for in section 7 of this Act . ( 2 ) as part of the assessment , the Secretary of State must carry out a consultation on the propose right to request flexible working . ( 3 ) the assessment must — ( a ) include labour market and broad macroeconomic analysis ; ( b ) examine the impact of the measure in section 7 on employment , wage and economic output ; ( c ) consider the likelihood of the cost of flexible work measure be pass on to employee through low wage ; and ( d ) examine the likely effect of the right to request flexible working on — ( i ) productivity ( ii ) wage growth ( iii ) equality of opportunity ( iv ) job security ( v ) economic activity , and ( vi ) employment . ( 4 ) a report set out the finding of the assessment must be lay before each House of Parliament no soon than 18 week after the consultation have be initiate . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to assess the impact of the provision of clause 7 . new clause 85 — Employer duty on harassment : impact assessment — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must carry out an assessment of the likely impact of section 18 of this Act on employer . ( 2 ) the assessment must — ( a ) report on the extent to which the prevalence of third - party harassment make the case for the measure in section 18 ; ( b ) include an assessment of the impact of section 18 on free speech ; ( c ) include an assessment of the likely cost to employer of section 18 ; ( d ) include — ( i ) an assessment of which occupation might be at particular risk of third - party harassment through no fault of the employer , and ( ii ) proposal for mitigation that can be put in place for employer employ people in such occupation . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report set out the finding of the assessment before each House of Parliament . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to assess the impact of the provision in Clauses 18 . new clause 86 — Unfair dismissal : impact assessment — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must carry out an assessment of the likely impact of section 21 and Schedule 2 of this Act on — ( a ) employer , and ( b ) the economy . ( 2 ) the assessment must — ( a ) include labour market and broad macroeconomic analysis ; ( b ) examine the impact of the measure in section 21 and Schedule 2 of this Act on employment , wage and economic output ; ( c ) consider the likelihood the dismissal measure lead to low employment , and great use of temporary contract ; and ( d ) examine the likely effect of section 21 and Schedule 2 of this Act on — ( i ) productivity ( ii ) wage growth ( iii ) equality of opportunity ( iv ) job security ( v ) economic activity , and ( vi ) employment , include level of youth employment . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report set out the finding of the assessment before each House of Parliament . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to assess the impact of the provision of Clause 21 and Schedule 2 . new clause 87 — Regulations under Part 1 and 2 — " when make regulation under Parts 1 and 2 of this Act , the Secretary of State must have regard to the follow objective — ( a ) the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) the economic growth of the United Kingdom in the medium to long term . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State , when make regulation under Part 1 and 2 of the Bill , to have regard to the objective of the international competitiveness of the economy and its growth in the medium to long term . new clause 91 — use of positive action in the workplace — " ( 1 ) in this section — ( a ) " p " be a public sector worker who reasonably think that the application by p ' s employer , in relation to p ' s employment or a working practice , of section 158 and 159 of the Equality Act 2010 have cause or risk cause detriment to p ; and ( b ) " r " be p ' s public sector employer ; and ( c ) p reasonably think that r be responsible for the detriment in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) . ( 2 ) a Minister of the Crown must by regulation make provision for — ( a ) form through which p may anonymously question r on any matter relevant to subsection ( 1 ) ; ( b ) form through which r may answer question by p ; and ( c ) such form to be make publicly available . ( 3 ) within six month of the passing of this Act and every three month thereafter , r must publish a report to set out ― ( a ) the number of form receive under subsection ( 2 ) , and ( b ) a summary of the nature of the complaint to which they relate . ( 4 ) a Minister of the Crown may by regulation require r to report on the use of section 158 and 159 of the Equality Act . ( 5 ) this section do not apply to activity undertake by r under paragraph 1 of Schedule 9 of the Equality Act . " new clause 92 — roll - up holiday pay for irregular hour worker and part - year worker — " in the Working Time Regulations 1998 , omit regulation 16a ( roll - up holiday pay for irregular hour worker and part - year worker ) . " this new clause would remove regulation 16a from the Working Time Regulations , which give employer the ability to pay irregular hour worker and part - year worker their holiday pay by way of ' roll - up pay ' , I . e . an uplift to their weekly or monthly pay . new clause 93 — Working Time Regulations 1998 : record — " in Regulation 9 ( Records ) of the Working Time Regulations 1998 , omit paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) and substitute — " ( 2 ) the record refer to in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) must be create , maintain and keep in such manner and format as the Secretary of State may prescribe . " " this new clause would remove the discretion give to employer in 2023 to keep record in any form they choose ( or not at all ) in relation to each worker ' s daily work hour . new clause 94 — annual report on application of change to employment right to seafarer — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament an annual report on the extent to which the relevant employment right change make by this Act apply to seafarer . ( 2 ) each annual report must describe — ( a ) so far as appropriate , whether each relevant employment right change apply or be intend to apply at the time of its commencement to seafarer on a relevant service within the meaning give by section 1 of the Seafarers ( Wages and Working Conditions ) Act 2023 ; ( b ) any proposal by the Secretary of State to apply any relevant employment right change to such seafarer subsequent to commencement ; ( c ) the extent to which the application of change to employment right to seafarer be affect by any change or prospective change to the Maritime Labour Convention , adopt on 23 February 2006 by the International Labour Organisation . ( 3 ) the first annual report under this section must be lay before each House of Parliament within three month of the passing of this Act . ( 4 ) in this section , " relevant employment right change make by this Act " mean the provision of — ( a ) Part 1 of this Act , ( b ) section 25 , 28 and 29 . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to produce an annual report on the application of employment right provision to seafarer . new clause 95 — annual report on provision relate to seafarer — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament an annual report on the extent to which the provision of section 26 , 47 and 48 of , and Schedule 3 to , this Act improve the work condition and employment right of seafarer . ( 2 ) the first annual report under this section must be lay before each House of Parliament within three month of the passing of this Act . " new clause 97 — right of employer and employee to minimum notice — " ( 1 ) section 86 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( right of employer and employee to minimum notice ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) omit " for one month or more " ; ( b ) for both instance of " one week ' s notice " , substitute " one month ' s notice " ; and ( c ) for " twelve week ' notice " , substitute " twelve month ' notice " . " this new clause would change the minimum notice period for termination of contract to a day one right , and would increase the notice period to : one month for an employee who have be employ for up to twelve year ; and twelve month for an employee who have be employ for over twelve year . new clause 101 — duty to establish a regulatory body for foster carer — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , make a report to Parliament on progress make to date on establish a regulatory body for the employment right and remuneration of foster carer . ( 2 ) any regulatory body establish pursuant to the Secretary of State ' s activity under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) representative of employer and foster care worker ; ( b ) independent member ; and ( c ) representative of individual with live experience in foster care ; and ( 3 ) a regulatory body establish pursuant to subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the establishment of a central registration system for foster carer ; ( b ) the expansion of employment right for foster carer ; ( c ) remuneration rate for foster caring ; and ( d ) any other matter which the Secretary of State deem appropriate . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to establish a regulatory body for foster carer for the purpose of consideration the remuneration and the expansion of employment right for foster carer . new clause 102 — statutory sick pay : report to Parliament — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State have a duty to ensure that any regulation make under section 157 ( rate of payment ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 do not result in an employee receive a low rate of statutory sick pay than the employee would have receive prior to the passing of this Act . ( 2 ) within three month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must report to Parliament on how the prescribed percentage of weekly earning specify in section 9 of this Act will ensure that all employee receive an increase to their eligible rate of statutory sick pay . " this new clause would ensure that the Bill ' s change to statutory sick pay do not result in any employee receive a reduce rate , compare with current rate . new clause 105 — substitution clause : duty of company director — " ( 1 ) the director of a relevant company have a duty to ensure that the company keep a register of all dependent contractor . ( 2 ) the director must supply detail of the register under subsection ( 1 ) with the Secretary of State within 12 month of the passing of this Act and every 12 month thereafter , subject to the provision of the Data Protection Act 2018 . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about what information must be supply in the register of dependant contractor . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section ― ( a ) a " relevant company " be a company that ― ( i ) provide service in relation to postal and courier activity , food and beverage service activity or taxi operation ; ( ii ) have more than 250 employee in the UK and overseas ; and ( iii ) include provision within the company ' s contract with contractor which allow the contractor to send another qualified person ( a " substitute " ) to complete the work in the contractor ' s place if the contractor be unable to complete the work ; ( b ) a " director " include any person occupy the position of director , by whatever name call ; and ( c ) " dependent contractor " mean a person who — ( i ) perform work or service for the relevant company ; ( ii ) be pay accord to task perform rather than hour of work ; ( iii ) depend partially or primarily on the relevant company for employment and income ; ( iv ) be not require to perform service for the relevant company ; and ( v ) be not specify as an employee or worker for the relevant company within a statement of employment particular or a contract of employment . " this new clause require certain company director to keep a register of the people carry out work for the company under so - call ' substitution clause ' , which allow company to permit their supplier – include some delivery courier – to appoint a substitute to supply service on their behalf . amendment 275 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 30 , leave out from " period " to the end of line 32 . this amendment aim to take out reference to low hour . amendment 276 , page 2 , leave out line 36 and 37 . this amendment be link to amendment 275 . government amendment 8 . amendment 277 , page 3 , line 20 leave out " with the specified day " and insert " 12 week after the commencement " . this amendment propose that the reference period for offer guarantee hour to worker previously on a zero - hour contract be 12 week . government amendment 9 . amendment 264 , page 3 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) in this section an agency worker be a qualifying worker " . government amendment 10 to 15 . amendment 265 , page 5 , line 4 , leave out from " event " to the end of line 7 . government amendment 16 . amendment 266 , page 5 , line 14 , leave out from " contract " to " , and " in line 15 . government amendment 17 . amendment 267 , page 5 , line 25 , leave out line 25 to 42 . government amendment 18 . Amendment 328 , page 8 , leave out line 10 and 11 . amendment 269 , page 11 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( c ) the length of the response period which shall not be less than one week . " government amendment 19 to 28 . amendment 278 , in clause 2 , page 16 , line 22 , leave out " a specified amount of time " and insert " 2 week and ideally one month " . this amendment , and amendment 279 to 281 , aim to set time limit for worker to be give notice of shift , when shift be move and when compensation should be pay . government amendment 29 . amendment 279 , page 17 , line 16 , leave out " a specified amount of time " and insert " 2 week and ideally one month " . this amendment be link to amendment 278 . government amendment 30 to 37 . amendment 280 , in clause 3 , page 21 , line 29 , at end insert " provide that the notice be at least 10 day in advance of the original plan shift " . this amendment be link to amendment 278 . amendment 281 , page 21 , line 39 , leave out " a specified amount of time " and insert " a week " . this amendment be link to amendment 278 . government amendment 38 to 50 and 79 . amendment 7 , in clause 9 , page 29 , leave out from line 34 to line 3 on page 30 and insert — " ( 1 ) the weekly rate of statutory sick pay that an employer must pay to an employee be the high of — ( a ) the National Living Wage ; or ( b ) the prescribed percentage of the employee ' s normal weekly earning . ( 1A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , the " National Living Wage " be define in accordance with regulation 4 of the National Minimum Wage Regulations 2015 . " this amendment bring the rate of Statutory Sick Pay into line with the National Living Wage . amendment 272 , page 29 , leave out from line 34 to line 3 on page 30 and insert — " the weekly rate of statutory sick pay that an employer must pay to an employee be the high of — ( a ) £ 116 . 75 ; and ( b ) 65 % of the employee ' s normal weekly earning . " this amendment would make the rate of statutory sick pay 65 % of an employee ' s earning or £ 116 . 75 a week , whichever be high . government amendment 80 to 85 . amendment 1 , in clause 16 , page 33 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) the condition specify under subsection ( 2 ) must be frame so as to ensure that a " bereaved person " include those bereave by pregnancy loss . ( 2B ) in subsection ( 2A ) " pregnancy loss " include — ( a ) a pregnancy that that end as a result of — ( i ) a miscarriage ; ( ii ) an ectopic pregnancy ; ( iii ) a molar pregnancy ; ( iv ) a medical termination conduct in accordance with section 1 of the Abortion Act 1967 ; ( b ) an unsuccessful attempt at in vitro fertilisation due to embryo transfer loss . " " this amendment require that any regulation make under section 80ea of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( as amend by the Bill ) must include condition frame by reference to those bereave by pregnancy loss . amendment 2 , page 33 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( ) in subsection ( 5 ) , after " child " insert " or as a result of pregnancy loss . " this amendment amend section 80ea ( 5 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 to ensure that the two week leave period be make available to those bereave as a result of pregnancy loss . amendment 3 , page 34 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( ) in section 171zz6 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 ( entitlement to statutory pregnancy loss pay ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3A ) the condition specify under subsection ( 2 ) must be frame so as to ensure that a " bereaved parent " include those bereave by pregnancy loss . ( 3b ) in subsection ( 3A ) " pregnancy loss " include — ( a ) a pregnancy that that end as a result of — ( i ) a miscarriage ; ( ii ) an ectopic pregnancy ; ( iii ) a molar pregnancy ; ( iv ) a medical termination conduct in accordance with section 1 of the Abortion Act 1967 ; ( b ) an unsuccessful attempt at in vitro fertilisation due to embryo transfer loss . " " this amendment amend the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 to ensure that the entitlement to statutory pregnancy loss pay extend to those bereave by pregnancy loss . amendment 288 , page 34 , line 32 , leave out clause 18 . amendment 289 , in clause 18 , page 35 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 1D ) subsection ( 1A ) do not apply to the hospitality sector or to sport venue . " this amendment would exclude hospitality provider and sport venue from the Bill ' s duty for employer not to permit harassment of their employee . amendment 287 , page 36 , line 10 , leave out clause 21 . government amendment 86 to 89 . amendment 329 , in clause 24 , page 37 , line 30 , at end insert ― " ( 3A ) for the purpose of this section , any provision in an agreement ( whether a contract of employment or not ) be void in so far as it purport to confer on the employer or a third party the power to vary , unilaterally , the term of the agreement . " this amendment would render void , for the purpose of a case of unfair dismissal in relation to fail to agree to a variation of contract , any provision enable an employer to vary a contract unilaterally . government amendment 90 . amendment 316 , in clause 25 , page 39 , line 8 , omit subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit " at one establishment " and insert " or more than 10 % of the employer ' s employee , whichever be the small number , " ; " this amendment would require an employer to consult with representative of affected employee when propose to dismiss as redundant 20 or more employee or at least 10 % of their employee , whichever be the small number . amendment 317 , page 39 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) after section 189 ( complaint and protective award ) , insert — " 189A failure to comply with section 188 or 188a where the employer have fail to comply with the requirement under section 188 or section 188a , any proposal to dismiss employee as redundant shall be void and of no effect . " " this amendment would increase the sanction for fail to consult with representative of affected employee by render the dismissal ineffective . government amendment 91 . amendment 318 , page 39 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) in section 189 ( 4 ) , omit " but shall not exceed 90 day " " this amendment would remove the cap on the length of a protect period for which an employer be order to pay remuneration in protective award . government amendment 92 to 97 . amendment 302 , in clause 26 , page 40 , line 26 , leave out " 120 " and insert " 52 " . this amendment apply the provision for collective redundancy notice for ship ' crew to ship provide a service enter a harbour in Great Britain on at least 52 occasion in the relevant period . amendment 303 , page 40 , line 31 , leave out " 10 " and insert " 5 " . amendment 273 , in clause 28 , page 46 , line 28 at end insert ― " ( ii ) a public authority specify in Part 3 of Schedule 19 , " . this amendment would apply this section to public authority in Scotland . amendment 4 , page 47 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( c ) support employee who provide or arrange care for a dependant with a long - term care need , as define by the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 . " Government amendment 98 . amendment 330 , in clause 31 , page 49 , line 11 , leave out from " body " to the end of subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) and insert — " that person be select by agreement between official of the trade union and employer ' representative who be member of the Negotiating Body and , in the event of a failure to agree choose by the Central Arbitration Committee . " this amendment would require the Chair of the Negotiating Body to be appoint by agreement between trade union and employer ' representative or the Central Arbitration Committee rather than by regulation by the Secretary of State . government amendment 99 and 100 . amendment 331 , page 49 , line 26 , leave out sub - paragraph ( i ) and ( ii ) and paragraph ( b ) and insert — " equal number of person nominate by — ( i ) trade union that represent the interest of social care worker ; and ( ii ) employer ' association represent the interest of employer of social care worker . " this amendment would require the regulation to establish the Adult Social Care Negotiating Body to provide for equal number of trade union representative and employer ' representative to be appoint to the Negotiating Body . government amendment 101 . Amendment 332 , in clause 32 , page 49 , line 40 , leave out from " be " to the end of paragraph ( b ) and insert — " matter relate to or connect with matter in section 178 ( 2 ) of the Trade Union and Labour Relations no . 332 , ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . " this amendment would extend the remit of the negotiate body to the list of matter for collective bargaining set out in Section 178 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . government amendment 102 to 107 . amendment 333 , page 50 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( d ) the training of social care worker ; ( e ) career progression of social care worker ; ( f ) a procedure for the resolution of dispute at employer , regional and national level which may refer a dispute to ACAS for conciliation and mediation and , if not then resolve , shall be entitle to refer the matter to the Central Arbitration Committee to resolve the dispute , the decision of the latter be bind ; ( g ) discipline and grievance procedure ; ( h ) any other matter agree to be the subject of negotiation by the member of the Negotiating Body . " this amendment would add additional matter to those within the Negotiating Body ' s remit ; namely , the training and career progression of social care worker , dispute resolution procedure and discipline and grievance procedure and other matter agree by member of the Negotiating Body . government amendment 108 and 109 . amendment 334 , in clause 33 , page 50 , line 8 , leave out from " mean " to the end of subsection ( 1 ) and insert — " an individual who , as pay work , provide social care for an adult , include an individual who , as pay work , supervise or manage individual provide such care or be a director or similar officer of an organisation which provide such care . " this amendment would bring the definition of social care worker in line with the definition of a " care worker " in Section 20 ( 3 ) of the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015 . government amendment 110 to 114 . Amendment 335 , in clause 34 , page 50 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) and insert — " the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision require the Negotiating Body , if it reach an agreement about a matter within its remit , to submit the agreement to the Secretary of State . " this amendment would remove almost all of section 34 on the consideration of matter by the Negotiating Body , retain the power in the regulation that agreement on matter by the Negotiating Body be refer to the Secretary of State . government amendment 115 to 126 . amendment 336 , in clause 35 , page 51 , line 22 , leave out paragraph ( c ) to ( f ) . this amendment remove the provision about what happen where an agreement be refer back to the Negotiating Body in paragraph ( c ) to ( f ) of Section 35 ( 3 ) . government amendment 127 to 129 . amendment 337 , page 51 , line 36 , leave out clause 36 . this amendment would remove Clause 36 on case where the Negotiating Body be unable to reach an agreement about a matter Government amendment 130 to 138 . amendment 338 , in clause 38 , page 52 , line 17 , leave out from " remuneration " to the end of line 18 and insert — " the worker ' s remuneration be to be no less than that determine and pay in accordance with the agreement . " this amendment relate to an agreement on a social care worker ' s remuneration and be in line with sectoral collective bargaining by which a local agreement can be more but not less favourable than the national agreement . government amendment 139 and 140 . amendment 339 , page 52 , line 25 , leave out clause 39 . this amendment would remove Clause 39 on the power of the Secretary of State to deal with matter refer to the Negotiating Body . government amendment 141 to 153 . amendment 340 , page 55 , line 16 , leave out clause 45 . this amendment would remove Clause 45 which prevent agreement reach by the Negotiating Body be regard as collective bargaining . government amendment 154 to 161 . government new schedule 1 — agency worker : guarantee hour and right relate to shift . government amendment 51 to 78 and 240 . amendment 324 , in schedule 2 , page 127 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 98 of Part 10 , in subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) , at end insert " in the view of the employment tribunal " . " this amendment would focus the determination of the question on whether a dismissal be fair or unfair on the judgment of the employment tribunal . amendment 325 , page 127 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 98 of Part 10 , in subsection ( 4 ) , at end insert — " ( c ) the tribunal shall take into account , in accordance with the rule of natural justice , whether or not there have be a fair investigation and a fair appeal . " " this amendment require the employment tribunal to have regard to the rule of natural justice when determine whether or not a dismissal be fair . amendment 327 , page 127 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 98 , in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) after " reason " insert " relate to the employee " " Amendment 5 , page 127 , line 37 , leave out from " period " to the end of line 38 and insert — " of not less than 3 month and not more than 9 month from the day on which the employee start work . " this amendment will ensure that the initial period of employment be between 3 and 9 month . Amendment 326 , page 127 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the initial period of employment specify in , or determine in accordance with the regulation shall in relation to a contract for a fixed or reasonably ascertainable term not be long than ten percent of the duration of that term . " government amendment 241 . amendment 319 , page 129 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) in section 139 ( Redundancy ) , after subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) insert — " ( c ) the fact that the requirement of that business — ( i ) for employee with their exist contractual entitlement to carry out work of a particular kind , or ( ii ) for employee with their exist contractual entitlement to carry out work of a particular kind in the place where the employee be employ by the employer , have cease or diminish . " " this amendment would provide for worker dismiss by a process of fire and rehire to reduce wage or other term and condition to be treat as redundant . Amendment 320 , page 129 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) omit section 155 ( qualifying period of employment ) . " this amendment remove the qualifying period of two year of continuous employment for the right to a redundancy payment . Amendment 321 , page 129 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) in section 162 ( amount of a redundancy payment ) , in subsection ( 2 ) , for every reference to " week " , substitute " month " . " this amendment would increase the calculation of the appropriate amount of redundancy pay for each specify period of employment . amendment 322 , page 129 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) in section 162 ( amount of a redundancy payment ) , omit subsection ( 3 ) . " this amendment would remove the 20 - year cap on entitlement to a redundancy payment . amendment 323 , page 129 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) in section 162 ( amount of a redundancy payment ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , " year of employment " mean " year of employment or part year of employment " . " this amendment clarify that , when redundancy pay be calculate , each part year work be treat as a full year of employment . government amendment 242 and 243 . amendment 343 , in schedule 3 , page 131 , leave out line 13 to 29 . this amendment would remove section 148b from Schedule 3 relate to matter within the remit of the School Support Staff Negotiating Body . amendment 290 , page 131 , leave out from the beginning of line 14 to the end of line 29 and insert — " ( 1 ) in the case of staff employ under section 148c , matter within the SSNB ' s remit be limit to the establishment of a framework to which employer of school support staff must have regard when discharge their function . ( 2 ) a framework under subsection ( 1 ) must include information on — ( a ) the remuneration of school support staff ; ( b ) the term and condition of employment of school support staff ; ( c ) the training of school support staff ; ( d ) career progression for school support staff ; and ( e ) relate matter . " ( 3 ) in the case of staff employ under subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) of section 148c , the matter within the SSSNB ' s remit be matter relate to the follow — ( a ) the remuneration of school support staff ; ( b ) term and condition of employment of school support staff ; ( c ) the training of school support staff ; ( d ) career progression for school support staff . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide that , for the purpose of subsection 5 — ( a ) a payment or entitlement of a prescribed kind be , or be not , to be treat as remuneration ; ( b ) a prescribed matter be , or be not , to be treat as relate to term and condition of employment of school support staff ; ( c ) a prescribed matter be , or be not , to be treat as relate to the training of school support staff ; ( d ) a prescribed matter be , or be not , to be treat as relate to career progression for school support staff . " this amendment would change the matter within the SSNB ' s remit , limit it to the creation of a framework to which school employer should have regard but do not need to follow . amendment 341 , page 131 , line 15 , leave out from " be " to the end of line 19 and insert — " matter relate to or connect with matter in section 178 ( 2 ) of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . " this amendment would extend the remit of the School Support Staff negotiate Body to the list of matter for collective bargaining set out in Section 178 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . amendment 342 , page 131 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( e ) a procedure for the resolution of dispute at employer , regional and national level , include the power to refer a dispute to ACAS for conciliation and mediation and , if not then resolve , entitlement to refer the matter to the Central Arbitration Committee to resolve the dispute , the decision of the latter be bind ; ( f ) any other matter agree to be the subject of negotiation by the party . " this amendment would add a dispute resolution procedure to the matter within the remit of the the School Support Staff Negotiating Body . government amendment 244 and 245 . amendment 344 , page 139 , leave out line 3 to 34 . this amendment would remove section 148Q from Schedule 3 relate to guidance issue by the School Support Staff Negotiating Body . amendment 304 , in schedule 4 , page 144 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( ia ) for " 120 occasion " substitute " 52 occasion " ; " this amendment apply the requirement for national minimum wage equivalence declaration to ship provide a service enter a harbour on more than 52 occasion during a relevant year . amendment 305 , page 145 , leave out from the beginning of line 35 to the end of line 3 on page 146 and insert " 52 occasion " . this amendment apply the requirement for remuneration declaration to ship provide a service enter a harbour on more than 52 occasion during a relevant year . amendment 306 , page 149 , leave out line 15 to 18 and insert " 52 occasion " . this amendment apply the requirement for safe work declaration to ship provide a service enter a harbour on more than 52 occasion during a relevant year . Amendment 307 , page 150 , line 26 , at end insert — " regulation relate to other working condition 4H Regulations relate to other working condition ( 1 ) Regulations may specify condition relate to other work condition of seafarer who carry out work relate to the provision of a relevant service , include condition about the provision of — ( a ) sick pay , ( b ) holiday pay ( c ) pension , ( d ) training on matter other than those specify in section 4e ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) in this Act , regulation under subsection ( 1 ) be refer to as " regulation relate to other work condition " . ( 3 ) regulation relate to other working condition may impose requirement on the operator of a relevant service . ( 4 ) regulation relate to other working condition may apply to — ( a ) all relevant service , or ( b ) one or more relevant service of a specified description . ( 5 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) ( b ) , a service may be describe by reference to ( among other thing ) the route operate by the service . declaration relate to other working condition 4I Request for declaration relate to other working condition ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply where a harbour authority have reasonable ground to believe that ship provide a service to which regulation relate to other working condition apply will enter , or have enter , its harbour on at least 52 occasion during a relevant year ( see section 19 for the meaning of " relevant year " ) . ( 2 ) the harbour authority must , within such period as be determine by regulation under this subsection , request that the operator of the service provide the authority with a declaration relate to other working condition in respect of the service for the relevant year . ( 3 ) the duty under subsection ( 2 ) be subject to any direction give by the Secretary of State under section 16 ( 1 ) ( a ) . ( 4 ) a harbour authority which fail to comply with subsection ( 2 ) be guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction — ( a ) in England and Wales , to a fine , or ( b ) in Scotland and Northern Ireland , to a fine not exceed level 5 on the standard scale . 4J Nature of declaration relate to other working condition ( 1 ) a declaration relate to other working condition in respect of a service for a relevant year be a declaration within any of subsection ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) a declaration be within this subsection if it be provide before the beginning of the relevant year and it be to the effect that the relevant working condition will be meet in relation to the service in the relevant year . ( 3 ) a declaration be within this subsection if it be provide during the relevant year and it be to the effect that the relevant working condition will be meet in relation to the service in what remain of the relevant year . ( 4 ) a declaration be within this subsection if it be provide during the relevant year and it be to the effect that — ( a ) the relevant working condition have be meet in relation to the service in so much of the relevant year as have already occur , and ( b ) the relevant working condition will be meet in relation to the service in what remain of the relevant year . ( 5 ) a declaration be within this subsection if it be provide after the end of the relevant year and it be to the effect that the relevant working condition be meet in relation to the service in the relevant year . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this section the relevant working condition be meet in relation to a service at a particular time if at that time the service be operate in compliance with regulation under section 4h ( 1 ) that apply to the service . ( 7 ) reference in subsection ( 6 ) to the operation of a service include reference to its operation outside the territorial water of the United Kingdom . " this amendment insert an additional power to make regulation and matching declaration requirement for a broad range of work condition of seafarer . amendment 308 , page 151 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( iv ) section 4J ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) , " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 307 . amendment 309 , page 151 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( iv ) within subsection ( 3 ) of section 4J ( and not also within subsection ( 4 ) of that section ) , " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 307 . amendment 310 , page 152 , line 7 , leave out " or safe work declaration " and insert — " safe work declaration or declaration relate to other work condition " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 307 . amendment 311 , page 152 , line 12 , leave out " or safe work declaration " and insert " safe work declaration or declaration relate to other work condition " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 307 . amendment 312 , page 152 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( iii ) information relate to matter that be the subject of regulation relate to other working condition . " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 307 . Amendment 313 , page 153 , line 27 , at end insert " or " ( d ) a declaration relate to other working condition ; " declaration relate to other work condition " have the meaning give by section 4J ( 1 ) ; " . " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 307 . amendment 314 , page 153 , line 31 , at end insert — " regulation relate to other working condition have the meaning give by section 4h ( 2 ) ; " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 307 . new clause 96 — annual report on application of change in Parts 4 and 5 to seafarer — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament an annual report extent to which the change provide for in Parts 4 and 5 of this Act ( " the relevant change " ) apply to seafarer . ( 2 ) each annual report must describe — ( a ) so far as appropriate , whether each relevant change apply or be intend to apply at the time of its commencement to seafarer on a relevant service within the meaning give by section 1 of the Seafarers ( Wages and Working Conditions ) Act 2023 ; ( b ) any proposal by the Secretary of State to apply any relevant change to such seafarer subsequent to commencement ; ( c ) the extent to which the application of the relevant change to seafarer be affect by any change or prospective change to the Maritime Labour Convention , adopt on 23 February 2006 by the International Labour Organisation . ( 3 ) the first annual report under this section must be lay before each House of Parliament within three month of the passing of this Act . " government amendment 227 to 235 . amendment 6 , in clause 129 , page 119 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( aa ) section [ Working Time Council ] ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC25 . Amendment 301 , page 120 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( q ) section [ annual report on application of change to employment right to seafarer ] ; ( r ) section [ annual report on provision relate to seafarer ] ( s ) section [ annual report on application of change in Parts 4 and 5 to seafarer ] " this amendment provide for the come into force of NC94 , NC95 and NC96 two month after the passing of the Act . Amendment 283 , page 120 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but no regulation under subsection ( 3 ) may be make to bring into force section 1 to 6 of this Act until the finding of the report under section [ Impact on employment tribunal : section 1 to 6 ] have be approve by a resolution of the House of Commons on a motion move by a Minister of the Crown . " this amendment would prevent the Bill ' s provision on zero hour worker come into force until the review of the impact on the employment tribunal of the Bill ' s provision on zero hour worker have be assess and approve by Parliament . amendment 284 , page 120 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but no regulation under subsection ( 3 ) may be make to bring into force section 7 of this Act until the finding of the report under section [ consultation and assessment on the right to request flexible working ] have be approve by a resolution of the House of Commons on a motion move by a Minister of the Crown . " Amendment 285 , page 120 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but no regulation under subsection ( 3 ) may be make to bring into force section 18 of this Act until the finding of the report under section [ Employer duty on harassment : impact assessment ] have be approve by a resolution of the House of Commons on a motion move by a Minister of the Crown . " amendment 286 , page 120 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) but no regulation under subsection ( 3 ) may be make to bring into force section 21 and Schedule 2 of this Act until the finding of the report under section [ Unfair dismissal : impact assessment ] have be approve by a resolution of the House of Commons on a motion move by a Minister of the Crown . " government amendment 246 , 248 and 250 . amendment 274 , in schedule 10 , page 190 , line 36 , leave out paragraph 17 and insert — " ( 17 ) in section 123 of the Equality Act 2010 ( discrimination etc at work ) , in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) ― ( a ) for " 3 " substitute " 6 " ; and ( b ) at end insert ― " ( ab ) for case involve sexual harassment , the period of 12 month start with the date of the act to which the complaint relate , or " " . this amendment would increase to 12 month the time limit for bring employment tribunal claim relate to sexual harassment . government amendment 262 and 263 . I start by refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I have do throughout the passage of the Bill . I thank member in all part of the House for their valuable contribution throughout the passage of the Bill to date , and in particular my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) for her assistance in take the Bill through Committee , and the other member of the Public Bill Committee for provide substantial debate and scrutiny . the Government ' s plan to make work pay be a core part of our mission to grow the economy , raise living standard across the country and create opportunity for all . it will tackle the low pay , poor working condition and poor job security that have be hold our economy back . the Bill be the first phase of deliver our plan to make work pay , support employer , worker and union by raise the minimum floor of employment right , raise living standard across the country and level the play field for those business that be engage in good practice . this be a landmark Bill that , once implement , will represent the big upgrade in employment right for a generation . it be therefore important that we get the detail right . the amendment be put forward by the Government directly demonstrate our commitment to full and comprehensive consultation on the detail of the plan to make work pay . on 4 March , we publish five consultation response relate to key area of the Bill . that package represent the first phase of formal public consultation on how good to put our plan into practice . we have also undertake extensive engagement with more than 150 stakeholder organisation , in addition to the formal consultation . we have make great effort to listen to the range of view from business , trade union , representative organisation , civil society and other . the insight gain have be invaluable in inform the amendment to ensure the Bill work in practice , both for worker and for business of all size across the whole country . the amendment will strengthen the Bill , provide further detail and clarity on measure and ensure such measure can be implement in a straightforward way . I turn to the detail of the amendment . the Government have table a range of amendment in relation to zero - hour measure . these amendment will help ensure that the zero - hour contract reform work for worker and employer , support a culture where secure work and prosperous growth go hand in hand . amendment in relation to clause 1 , cover the right to guarantee hour , will clarify requirement where a worker work for an employer under more than one contract at the same time ; clarify that under a guarantee hour offer , if it be accept , work must be provide by the employer for the hour set out and that those hour must be work by the worker ; and enable a worker to take a case to an employment tribunal on the ground that an employer deliberately structure the worker ' s hour or offer work in such a way as to make a reduce guarantee hour offer or to avoid have to make an offer at all . give the urgent necessity to promote growth , surely the acid test of a Bill such as this be whether it will actually make it more attractive for entrepreneur to create job . what be the answer ? the answer be in the Department ' s press release , which cite Simon Deakin , professor of law at the University of Cambridge , no less . he have say : " the consensus on the economic impact of labour law be that , far from be harmful to growth , they contribute positively to productivity . labour law also help ensure that growth be more inclusive and that gain be distribute more widely across society . " I be sure that the right hon . Member want to see that happen . amendment in relation to the right in clause 2 and 3 to reasonable notice of shift and payment for short - notice cancellation , curtailment and movement of shift will ensure that the right work appropriately for worker whose contract specify the timing of at least some of their shift ; provide that a worker be entitle to a payment from their employer only for a shift cancel , move or curtail at short notice if they reasonably believe they would be need to work the shift ; and allow employer to disclose personal information about a worker in notice of exception , where appropriate and in accordance with data protection law , and ensure that the usual burden of proof apply where it be allege that such a notice be untrue . the Minister will have see the appalling evidence that the Business and Trade Committee take from McDonald ' s , where the BBC investigation expose allegation from hundred of young worker who be suffer harassment , and even allegation from one worker of manager solicit they for sex in return for scheduling shift . the tightening up that he propose be very welcome . when do he think he will set out the detail — [ interruption . ] when will he set out the detail of , for example , the period of time that someone must work before be offer a zero - hour contract ? I thank the Chairman of the Select Committee for his question . we be aim to work on this once the Bill have pass this stage , and consultation will take place in due course . I have to say that the chuntering from those on the conservative Benches really show how they fail to appreciate the power imbalance that there be in some workplace and the exploitation and harassment that arise from that . our measure on guarantee hour , reasonable notice of shift , and payment for short - notice cancellation seek to ensure that worker , often in fragmented sector with little voice of their own , do not bear all the risk of uncertain demand . however , we recognise that there be case where union and employer , work together , may want to agree more tailored right than the provision allow , which would benefit both the worker and the employer give the unique context of that particular sector . union , business and trade association have make a case for that flexibility in their meeting with we . we want to allow for that , while also provide a baseline for sector where unionisation be uncommon or agreement can not be reach . new clause 33 and associated amendment will allow employer and union to collectively agree to modify or opt out of the zero - hour contract measure . like the other worker cover by this part of the Bill , agency worker deserve a baseline of security and access to a contract that reflect their regular hour . many agency worker have a preference for guarantee hour , accord to survey evidence . we know that 55 % of agency worker request a permanent contract with their hirer between January 2019 and September 2020 , accord to the Department for Business and Trade ' s agency worker survey . we be keen not to see a wholesale shift from directly engage worker to agency worker as a way for employer to avoid the zero - hour provision in the Bill . new clause 32 , new schedule 1 and associated amendment will narrow the broad power currently in the Bill and instead include provision for similar right to be extend to agency worker . hirer , agency and agency worker can then be clear where responsibility will rest in relation to the new right . these amendment reflect the call for clarity from stakeholder in their response to the Government ' s public consultation on this issue . give the important role that agency work play in business and public service , we recognise the need to work with the recruitment sector , employer and trade union to design detailed provision for regulation that work — that is , regulation that achieve the policy objective of extend right to agency worker without unintended consequence for employment agency and hirer — and we will work on that in due course . the Government have also table amendment in relation to dismissal and redundancy practice . this Bill will help employer to raise standard in relation to these practice , so that the vast majority of business that do the right thing by their worker will no long be undercut by those with low standard . I have the good fortune to serve with the Minister for 21 session in Committee , and at the end of that we have a Bill 192 page long . we now have 270 page of amendment , most of which come from the Government . why be they table so many amendment and give they just two day ' scrutiny ? be these just more union demand ? I have literally just explain how we have be consult with business and trade union and put down amendment as a result . of course , if the hon . Member be concerned about the length of the amendment paper , he can withdraw his own amendment , which we will no doubt be debate later on . we be table some technical amendment to clause 21 on unfair dismissal that will update cross - reference in other legislation to " the sum " , which be the exist cap on the compensation that can be award by an employment tribunal in most unfair dismissal case . it be the Government ' s intention to end the unscrupulous use of fire and rehire . we be propose technical amendment that allow the clause to work as intend to provide those protection . they ensure that , once the provision of the Bill that make unfair dismissal a day one right come into force , the automatic unfair dismissal protection from unscrupulous fire and rehire practice will apply once the employee start work . this bring the provision in line with other change to unfair dismissal . these amendment also make it clear that the person will be protect from fire and rehire when they be dismiss and then rehire to do exactly the same job as they be do previously , but on bad condition . clause 25 will modernise the collective redundancy framework to ensure that it work for employee and employer alike . we have listen to feedback from business on the clause as introduce , which require consultation whenever 20 or more redundancy be propose to be make across an employer ' s organisation . business tell we that this would have put they in a constant state of consultation , so the change propose would ensure that this clause extend protection for employee while limit burden for employer . the amendment mean that collective redundancy obligation will be trigger where 20 or more redundancy be propose at one establishment , in line with the exist law , or the number of propose redundancy across the organisation meet a certain threshold . the Government will set this threshold out in due course via secondary legislation . this will happen after we have consult , ensure that it balance the need of a grow business with the interest of employee . this could be a proportion of employee in a business , a suitable number of employee across a business , or some other threshold propose through detailed consultation . employer will also be require to notify the Government of redundancy that meet the threshold set in secondary legislation . the Government ' s intention be to ensure that it be more difficult for a small and unscrupulous minority of employer to ignore their collective redundancy obligation , as we have see in recent year . new clause 34 will therefore double the protective award an employment tribunal can make from 90 to 180 day . we consult on this and other matter from October to December 2024 , and after listen carefully to a range of response from business and employee representative , we have conclude that the maximum period of the protective award an employment tribunal can make should be raise from 90 to 180 day . this be on top of change that the Government have already make . from 20 January this year , employment tribunal have have the ability to uplift the protective award by up to 25 % where an employer unreasonably fail to follow the code of practice on dismissal and re - engagement . we recognise that responsible employer up and down the country already go far than their current obligation to collectively consult and will continue to do so . they recognise that collective consultation with their workforce can be valuable in find solution to the challenge that business face . we will publish a new code of practice to guide employer on their collective consultation obligation and promote the way good employer be work with their employee to arrive at mutually beneficial outcome , so that all business be require to do the same . the Government be also table amendment in relation to the Bill ' s provision on flexible working and dismissal during pregnancy . the Bill will increase the baseline set of right for employee with parental responsibility , enable more work parent to get on at work and achieve a well work - life balance , whether they be raise child or look after a love one with a long - term health condition . business will gain too , where this boost workforce participation and help employer to fill vacancy . these amendment will ensure that these provision work as intend . clause 22 add a new power to make provision for non - redundancy dismissal during or after the protect period of pregnancy . the amendment will add supplementary provision to this power . this be to ensure that the regulation can clearly set out detail as part of define the circumstance in which a pregnant woman can still be fairly dismiss . we will work with stakeholder on how to exercise these power in regulation . amendment 79 to clause 7 propose that the flexible work measure in the Bill be add to those provision in scope of section 202 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 . that mean that the security service — MI5 , GCHQ and the Secret Intelligence Service — will be exempt from disclose any information relate to flexible working request if , in the opinion of a Minister , it would be contrary to national security . in those instance , the employer would not need to disclose the reason for refuse a request . the Government be move amendment on statutory sick pay . in our " plan to make work Pay " , we commit to establish a fair earning replacement for low earner . we launch a public consultation that ask employer , employee , trade union , stakeholder and member of the public what percentage rate that should be . after carefully consider the response , the Government believe that an 80 % rate strike the right balance between provide financial security to employer that need it , include retain an incentive to return to work when appropriate , while limit additional cost to business . today ' s amendment will set the rate of statutory sick pay at 80 % of an employee ' s normal weekly earning or the flat rate — whichever be low . consequently , we will remove the previously propose power for the Secretary of State to prescribe the percentage rate in secondary legislation . however , Ministers will still be able to use the exist power in section 157 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 to substitute a different provision as to the weekly flat rate of SSP , or the percentage rate of the employee ' s weekly earning , depend on which be low . the amendment also amend the weekly flat rate to £ 118 . 75 , as agree by Parliament as part of its annual uprating exercise . the Government be move amendment that will add two new provision into part 2 of the Bill . analysis conduct by the Resolution Foundation find that 900 , 000 worker report that they have no pay holiday despite that be a day one entitlement . new clause 35 will create a new duty in the Working Time Regulations 1998 for employer to retain record relate to holiday pay and annual leave for six year . I apologise if the Minister have move on a bit ; I be just wait to hear what he say . the Minister may correct I , but I do not believe the provision around menstrual health — the menopause strategy and so on — include endometriosis , which can be crippling for people in the workplace . I may not have see it in the Bill , but do the Minister have any plan to ensure that this become a protect area of sick leave ? Endometriosis be devastating for many woman , but at the moment , they be struggle to get this terrible disease recognise in the workplace . I be grateful to the right hon . member for raise this important point . it be touch on in Committee , but there be not any amendment deal with that specific issue today . return to holiday pay , where an employer do not keep adequate record , a Fair Work Agency enforcement officer may seek a labour market enforcement undertaking from the employer to ensure future compliance . where the employer refuse to give a labour market enforcement undertaking , or fail to comply with one , the FWA enforcement officer may apply to the appropriate court for a labour market enforcement order . I apologise to the Minister because he have move on , but I want to come back to the new level of statutory sick pay , which be £ 118 . 75 or 80 % of an employee ' s weekly earning . an employee with weekly earning of £ 125 would at present get £ 116 . 75 , but under the new model , they would receive only £ 100 . be that correct ? yes , but the hon . member forget the fact that we be remove the waiting day . with the provision on the low earning limit go , 1 . 3 million people will be access statutory sick pay . we think that that be the right balance and that it will leave people in a much well position . of course , it be something that we will always continue to review . move on to umbrella company , we be aware of non - compliance in this market , where umbrella company can be responsible for deny employment right to those who work through they . new clause 36 will allow for the regulation of umbrella company and for enforcement by the Employment Agency Standards Inspectorate , and subsequently the Fair Work Agency . the specific requirement on umbrella company will be set out in the relevant regulation , which set out the minimum standard of conduct for employment agency and employment business . we will consult before amend these regulation , and we be commit to work with the sector to ensure that future regulation work effectively for umbrella company . the amendment mark an important step towards ensure non - compliant umbrella company be no long able to deny worker the right they be owe . the Government be move a range of amendment in relation to part 3 of the Bill , which cover the adult social care negotiate body and the school support staff negotiate body . on the SSSNB , the Government be move two technical amendment to correct incorrect cross - reference . the body be an important part of deliver both the Government ' s " plan to make work pay " and our opportunity mission . the Government will today commit to consult in the summer on whether agency worker should be bring into scope of the SSSNB in future legislation to support those mission . could the Minister clarify for the House whether the provision on the school support staff negotiate body will provide a ceiling as well as a floor on pay , or will it just be a floor ? there be certainly a number of school and academy leader who say they want to pay above what the Government might recommend for support staff and that this may limit they from do so . that be debate in detail in Committee . my understanding be that there will be a floor , but there will not be a ceiling . if I be wrong about that , I will come back to that . we absolutely think that a floor be need give some of the issue with low pay in this country . amendment to the adult social care negotiate body provision will remove clause 42 , thereby remove the power to make stand - alone enforcement provision in respect of the agreement reach by negotiate body . enforcement of pay term under agreement will instead be in the remit of the new Fair Work Agency under schedule 4 . the Minister be rattle off a whole list of amendment that appear to have come after the legislation have go through Committee . do he not understand that that create a massive burden on many business ? would it not be well to accept that the Government have go a little overboard with the Bill and to start afresh with proper consultation with business at ground level ? the reason why we be put so many amendment down be because we have be consult and work with business , and that be why we have so much to say today . it be a Labour party commitment to launch an Employment Rights Bill within 100 day of take office , and I be proud that we have deliver on that commitment and that we have this Bill here today . in that consultation , how many small business express their support for the Bill ? I refer the right hon . member to our departmental press release , where at least half a dozen business representative and business have express support , and of course , there be many more business out there . indeed , I visit one only recently that support the Bill . would the Minister be kind enough to name one of those business on the press release ? [ interruption . ] he have well look at the press release just to check . there be the Co - op — quite a big business — Richer Sounds , Centrica and the British Chambers of Commerce . these be not bit - part player at all , be they ? new clause 38 seek to ensure that agency worker in the adult social care sector who do not have a " worker ' s contract " , within the meaning of employment legislation , would nevertheless be able to bring a claim in the employment tribunal or in civil proceeding where a fair pay agreement have be breach . it do that by deem a contract to exist for this purpose between the worker and the party that pay they . that will allow such worker to bring an unlawful deduction of wage claim or breach of contract claim for a breach of fair pay agreement term . new clause 37 and associated amendment will enable the Scottish and Welsh Ministers to establish their own separate negotiating body and associate framework , and to enable their negotiating body and the result agreement to cover social care worker in both adult and child ' s social care . care policy , funding and commissioning be deliver together in both Wales and Scotland . in England , the two workforce , and therefore the policy and delivery , be distinct . as such , it be right for Scotland and Wales to have the power to set up negotiate body that can provide for their system and workforce as they be now . these amendment and associated consequential amendment will allow the devolved Ministers to exercise certain power in this chapter of the Bill with the consent of the Secretary of State , ensure that the Secretary of State retain oversight of regulation relate to the reserved matter of employment and industrial relation . amendment 151 to clause 41 supplement the power to make regulation in relation to record keeping . it will enable those regulation to apply to section 49 of the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 in order to prevent employer from try to contract out of their new record keeping obligation . before wind up , I will address some other amendment . I will take this opportunity to note the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . I be grateful to her Women and Equalities Committee for raise the important issue of miscarriage leave . the loss of a baby at any stage be an incredibly difficult and personal experience . the Committee ' s inquiry demonstrate a clear gap in support for those who experience pregnancy loss and need time to recover and grieve . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for show great courage in talk about her personal experience of that . I be grateful to she and to other hon . member and campaigner for speak about that issue — we have hear they . we fully accept the principle of bereavement leave for pregnancy loss , as address by the amendment . we look forward to further discussion with my hon . friend and noble Lords as the Bill move on to its stage in the other place . Bereavement be not an illness or a holiday , and it need its own special category . I will also take this opportunity to note the new clause table by my hon . friend the Members for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) and for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) . the Government recognise the important point raise by both hon . friend , and the serious impact that domestic abuse have on society , particularly on woman and girl . we strongly encourage employer to support staff who experience domestic abuse . many already do so through their membership of Employers ' Initiative for Domestic Abuse , which empower employer to tackle domestic abuse . the Bill include provision to make flexible working easy to request , which we know can be of great help to those experience domestic abuse , who may need to take time from work for appointment for domestic abuse - relate matter . the Government have commit to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . I have meet the Minister for safeguarding and violence against woman and girl , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who be , as the House know , a dedicated and respected campaigner on those issue . I have also speak to several member about their concern , include my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) , whose private Member ' s Bill — the Domestic Abuse ( Safe Leave ) Bill — have be give its First Reading ; my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ; and the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) . member share many powerful story from their constituent . every part of Government will need to contribute towards our ambition . when my hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) ask a moment ago which business support the Bill , the Minister mention the British Chambers of Commerce . I have just visit its website , which state : " the British Chambers of Commerce have use an evidence session on the Employment Rights Bill to highlight business ' serious concern about the legislation and the speed and detail of consultation . " will the Minister withdraw his comment ? I be glad that the hon . Member have access to the internet . I direct he to the Department ' s webpage , where he will see that Jane Gratton , deputy director of public policy at the British Chambers of Commerce , say : " there be much here to welcome as sensible move that will help ensure that employment work for both the business and the individual " . that be in response to the amendment , so it be a much more up - to - date comment than the one the hon . Member mention . return to the important issue of violence against woman and girl , it be incumbent on every part of Government to work together to tackle violence against woman and girl . that be not a task for a single Department or Minister . the Government be steadfastly commit to deliver our manifesto commitment to halve violence against woman and girl , and we will publish a cross - government strategy shortly . I intend to work with colleague to ensure that our Department do its bit in that respect . I also take this opportunity to note the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) and the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) on non - disclosure agreement . I have meet advocate on that issue and I understand the significant problem that they have highlight in relation to the misuse of non - disclosure agreement in some circumstance . that important issue warrant further consideration . the Government be press ahead with plan to implement the provision relevant to nda in the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 and the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 . we take NDA misuse seriously and will continue to look into it to see what we can do . new clause 72 , in the name of the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , focus on whistleblowing and protect disclosure . that area have be so important in recent public scandal , include the Post Office - Fujitsu scandal and the Lucy Letby case . may I urge the Minister to consider that new clause ? impose a duty on big employer to look at and investigate protect disclosure be a vital way of move forward on that key legislation . I have begin to consider it , as that legislation be now a quarter of a century old and need look at in the light of experience in a number of the scandal that have be mention . we be consider where we go next on whistleblowe legislation . to conclude , Britain ' s work people and business be the drive force of the UK economy , and the Bill will help to create a labour market that deliver for both . it will deliver significant benefit to the UK , include well working condition , more secure work , reduced inequality and improve industrial relation . I appreciate that I have outline a lot of detail today , but it be important to remember that , as be typical with any legislation of this nature , many of the policy will be provide for through regulation and , in some case , through code of practice . we expect further consultation on these reform to begin later in the year , when we will seek significant input from stakeholder . I be grateful for member ’ effort to improve the Bill , and for their scrutiny and debate so far . I look forward to hear further debate this afternoon . I call the shadow Minister . after 21 sitting in the Public Bill Committee , the Government be still table hundred of amendment to the Bill . that highlight once again that their false political deadline of 100 day in which to publish the Bill be foolhardy . they should have take well time . this be a bad bill . although it contain many good and well - intentione measure , the Government have fail to get the balance right between employee and employer . although I welcome some of the Minister ' s comment — not least on bereavement leave for pregnancy loss , on which we speak at length and agree in Committee — I be afraid that the Government have get the balance wrong in the vast majority of the Bill . the amendment in the name of right hon . and hon . friend in his Majesty ' s loyal opposition seek to highlight how the Bill simply go too far in too many regard : it will affect our economy , it will affect the number of people who have a job , and it will affect the willingness of employer — the wealth and job creator — to take on new staff , to grow , to put new product line in place and to keep employ people . I thank my hon . friend for give way and doff my cap to he for his 21 sitting in Committee . when the Regulatory Policy Committee consider the Bill , it say that eight of the 23 impact assessment be " not fit for purpose " . be he any more confident that that have be rectify through the amendment ? I be sorry to have to report to my hon . friend that , no , I do not have great confidence that the Bill will work . he be right that the RPC place so much of the Bill in the red column — at severe risk — and identify it as " not fit for purpose " . some of the amendment in my name and those of right hon . and hon . friend , to which I will speak in more detail in a moment , seek to explore far the impact that the measure in the Bill will have on the economy , and to answer the point that he rightly outline . fundamentally , we know that every Labour Government leave unemployment high than when they start ; the difference with this one be that they be actually legislate for that outcome . I will turn first to new clause 83 and amendment 283 . when we be in government , we ban exclusivity clause in zero - hour contract . we know that this flexibility work for many employee on zero - hour contract , such as student and those with a summer job or other responsibility — employee can value that . this Bill impose a statist , top - down , " Government know good " approach , which will limit flexibility for both employer and employee . I visit the Nelson Arms in Farnham recently and meet the publican , who employ a lot of people on zero - hour contract , one of whom , in addition to work in the pub , work as a paramedic , because the flexibility allow he to do both job . these be the sort of people who will be impact by this legislation . my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be attend a wedding in Farnham later this year , and I look forward to visit the Nelson Arms and thank his constituent for the service he also give as a paramedic . be the shadow Minister aware that the TUC ' s survey clearly show that the vast majority of people on zero - hour contract really want regular hour ? can he respond to that ? the hon . Gentleman say it be " the vast majority " . I do not know whether it be the vast majority , but some people , of course , will want the guarantee of the hour he talk about . the point I be make be about allow flexibility for those for whom it do work . I give the example of student , and my hon . friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) give another example of someone for whom this flexibility work . that be not to say that there be not many people in our economy who do seek the change the hon . Gentleman want , but it be not a universal rule , and it should not simply be apply to everyone . I gently invite he to reflect on the impact this will have on people such as those my hon . friend the Member for Farnham and Bordon refer to . have the shadow Minister actually read the Bill ? do he understand that the flexibility include be the flexibility to ask for guarantee hour , and if a student or somebody do a second job do not want those guarantee hour , they do not need to have they ? I be happy to confirm to the hon . Lady that I have read the Bill , and I have read a considerable number of document from the House of Commons Library and many other organisation . I have speak to a lot of business in my constituency , as well as far afield , who I can assure she be horrify at the Bill . the Minister be ask early to name a single small business that support the Bill , and his answer be the Co - op and Centrica . the last time I look , neither of those would be consider small business . will my hon . friend give way ? rise — I will give way one more time , and then I will make some progress . do it worry my hon . friend that , once again , the Government have reveal they be desperately hope that company such Centrica do become small business ? my right hon . friend make a very good point in his stylish , witty manner . as my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) say , the Regulatory Policy Committee have give a red rating to the identification of option and choice of policy on zero - hour contract and guarantee hour in the Bill . that mean the Government have not justify the necessity of clause 1 to 6 . what be the problem the Government be try to solve with those clause ? why be those clause need ? we just do not know . the Bill , despite literally hundred of government amendment , remain silent about how these provision will work in practice , which mean the Government ' s assessment that the administrative cost of the Bill to business in shift and workforce planning will be £ 320 million could well be an underestimate . the deputy ceo of ukhospitality raise their concern in Committee , say : " the Government be intend to leave it to case law and employment tribunal system to figure out what ' reasonable notice ' mean . " – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 26 November 2024 ; c . 43 , Q39 . ] that be an unacceptable way to legislate . business crave certainty and a stable regulatory environment . this Bill provide anything but , and the result , as the chair of the CBI have say , be that it risk become " an adventure playground for employment right lawyer . " my hon . friend be a learn man and he may have see the report in the Financial Times that , for the first time ever , the number of company register at Companies House have fall . do he think this Bill be on the horizon have anything to do with that , particularly give the point that have be make about it not be fit for purpose ? my hon . friend make an exceptional point . the Bill categorically will be play a part in that , along with the Budget of broken promise , the increase in employer NI and so on . I shudder to think what will happen when the Bill become law . we understand the parliamentary arithmetic — we understand that the Government will force this through , and that be the reason we have table new clause 83 and amendment 283 . new clause 83 would require the Secretary of State to conduct a review of " ( a ) the impact of section 1 to 6 on the operation of employment tribunal , and ( b ) the ability of employment tribunal to manage any increase in application result from those section . " amendment 283 would place a commencement block on clause 1 to 6 . we believe that those clause should not come into force until the review require by new clause 83 have be approve by Parliament . both business and employee will struggle when claim be bring because of the confusion create by the Bill if the employment tribunal be not able to cope with the increase caseload . will the shadow Minister give way ? I will happily give way in one moment . Government Members should have their eye open to the consequence of this badly think out legislation . perhaps the hon . Lady will open her eye to that point . these measure will ensure protection for all the 2 . 4 million people in the UK with irregular work pattern , be it zero - hour contract or agency contract . can the shadow Minister tell the House why he think agency worker do not deserve the same protection as everyone else ? the hon . Lady make a point that she make in Committee . it be good to debate with she and other in Committee — we have a genuine and robust debate . what I be argue for be flexibility and a recognition of how the employment market and our economy work in real life . to treat everything with one universal rule will be a disaster for our economy . I fear that it will result in few people in work and few job in the economy , and it certainly will not deliver the growth that this Government pretend they want to see . will the shadow Minister give way ? how can I resist the hon . Gentleman ? do the shadow Minister not accept that it be due to the expendability of employee in the workplace that we have such a poor rate of productivity in this country , particularly compare with France and Germany ? I greatly respect the hon . Gentleman , and we have work together on a number of issue in recent year , but I do not accept his point . be there room to improve productivity ? of course there be — there be room to improve productivity across all sector all the time ; we would not grow the economy if we could not do that . however , the Bill take a sledgehammer to crack the proverbial nut . apply a universal rule for all will not deliver what the hon . Gentleman nobly wish to achieve in the economy . as be often the case in politic , the thing that divide we be not the end goal or the point we want to get to ; it be the mean of get there . I do not think the Bill will deliver what he want to achieve . he look like he want to intervene again . I want to make progress , but I will give he one last go . the shadow Minister be be very generous . I be make a simple point : it be less motivating and of less interest to a company to invest in machinery and plant if it can ultimately change the structure of its workforce or expend they through fire and rehire . that be what be hold we back , and that be why we have a 20 % deficit to France and Germany in term of productivity . the hon . Gentleman make an interesting point , but I do not see business out there that want to expend or get rid of their workforce , or disinvest in they , and he be give a very pessimistic outlook of the way that the business environment run in this country . business want to innovate . they want to grow and employ more people . they want to make more money . make money be not something people should look down their nose at — it be a fundamentally good thing that create wealth , grow the economy , and increase the tax base to pay for the service that we all want . I do not share the hon . Gentleman ' s view of the world when it come to the Bill and the point he be try to make . listen to the debate , it be clear that there be Conservative Members who understand business , and who come to this place with year of experience — [ interruption . ] if Labour member would stop heckle for one moment , they might start to listen . if we want to increase productivity , that be about employee , but it be also about employer be able to invest in their staff through training , contract , plant and machinery . it be a whole raft of thing , none of which we can do if business be stifle with red tape and employment law , or measure that be basically about law through the court . I agree with my right hon . friend . the crux of what she say be the difference between the approach of Conservative Members to economy and the way that Labour Members , and those on the other left - wing Benches , look at the economy . the left of british politic tend to view everything through the lens of business be bad , of all employer seek to exploit their workforce , and of an image of a victorian factory from a novel of that era . in reality , we must recognise the symbiotic relationship between employer and employee , because we do not grow the economy without thing work in both their interest . the Bill seek to tip the balance too far in one direction , forget that that will take away the incentive for employer — the wealth creator — to get on and grow . let I move to new clause 84 and amendment 284 . conservative Members have absolutely no issue with the right to request flexible working . indeed , conservative in government pass the Employment Relations ( Flexible Working ) Act 2023 . that make it easy for employee to make flexible working request , give they a statutory right to do so , and require employer to consider and discuss any request make by their employee more quickly . that legislation appear to be work . indeed , the Regulatory Policy Committee have say that " there be little evidence present that employer be reject request unreasonably . " I spend 13 year as a solicitor work in employment right , predominantly for employee and periodically for employer , and I assure the hon . Gentleman that flexible working be not work for many mother in this country . many woman be give up job and become self - employ because their employer will not agree their flexible working request . it be good to hear from a real solicitor who give her wealth of knowledge to this area . I be not try to suggest that everything be perfect and work well . I fully accept the fair and good point that the hon . Lady make about many mother get back into the workplace or extend their career , but the Bill be not the answer she be look for , if she look at it in more detail . the RPC give the Government ' s impact assessment for flexible working provision a red rating , and that go to the nub of the point . be there room for improvement ? of course there be , but the impact assessment for the flexible provision in the Bill be give a red rating — not fit for purpose . once again , I ask the Minister this : what problem be the Government try to solve with clause 7 ? before rush to pile more red tape on business through the Bill , do the Government consider option such as raise awareness of the right to request flexible working ? our new clause 84 require the Secretary of State to assess the impact that clause 7 will have on employment , wage and economic output . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? one more crack , yes . I assure the hon . Gentleman that woman absolutely do know about the right to request flexible working , and that be not the source of the problem they be face . the hon . Lady almost make the point for I . early , I make the very point that we introduce that right . it be work well , yet the RPC say that the provision in the Bill will do nothing for it and be not fit for purpose — I thank she for her intervention . new clause 84 call for consideration of " the likelihood of the cost of flexible work measure be pass on to employee through low wage " , and of the likely effect that the right to request flexible working will have on productivity , wage growth , equality of opportunity , job security , economic activity and employment . equally , it require that a report set out that those finding " must be lay before each House of Parliament no soon than 18 week after the consultation have be initiate . " the hon . Gentleman have just say that there may be area where we could go far on flexible working . can he explain why the previous Government ' s flexible working taskforce meet just once last year , and just once the year before ? as with the long - await employment Bill that never materialise , be it the case that this Government be bring forward real measure because the previous Government vacate that territory ? the hon . Gentleman , with whom we debate these matter at length in Committee , clearly have not listen to what I say . I detail how we do legislate in this area , yet this Government be bring forward a Bill that the RPC , in this respect , have give a red rating and say be not fit for purpose . I gently urge he to look again at this issue , and at where we can agree on area that could go far or be different from measure set out in either exist or propose legislation . we must understand the impact that measure in the Bill will have on the real economy . amendment 284 would ensure that clause 7 could not come into force until Parliament have approve that report . to put it simply , the genesis of the amendment be that the Government have not do their homework , and they have no idea what they be do or why . we know that these provision will damage business , which in turn will hurt worker , and we want Labour Members to acknowledge that it will be ordinary people who pay the price . let I turn to new clause 85 and amendment 285 , 288 and 289 . clause 18 , which make employer liable for harassment of their employee by third party , be another example of the Government put more regulation on business without know the problem they be try to solve . the independent Regulatory Policy Committee have say that the Government have not manage sufficiently to demonstrate the need for the third - party harassment provision in the Bill , and have once again rate this impact assessment as red . it should go without say that conservative Members do not condone any form of harassment in the workplace . when we be in government , we legislate to put a duty on employer to take reasonable step to anticipate and prevent sexual harassment , a horrible , evil crime that be cover by other legislation to protect everybody in the country . I double underline that we be not condone sexual harassment — indeed , we legislate clearly to clamp down on that evil and heinous crime . however , I would be interested in any evidence the Minister have for the prevalence of third - party harassment in the workplace , and of how clause 18 might solve that , because the Government have not produce that evidence so far . will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress , as I think I have demonstrate that I be not shy of give way , and I will come back to the hon . Lady . the problem be that badly consider law , develop with no evidence base , be likely to cause problem , rather than to solve they . that be the law of unintended consequence . we be deeply concerned about not just the unclear liability that the clause place on employer , but the implication it have for freedom of expression . the Equality and Human Rights Commission have say that the third - party harassment protection " raise complex question about the appropriate balance between third party ' right to freedom of expression ( as protect under Article 10 echr ) and employee ' protection from harassment and their right to private and family life . " we be already struggle to ensure freedom of speech at our university — place that should be guardian of free , open and challenging debate . it be of course my private Member ' s Bill that the previous Government support , but only partly , because third - party harassment be scrub out of the Bill ; I be very pleased that the new Government be reintroduce that bit . the question be : why do the hon . Gentleman support the idea that employer should prevent sexual harassment in the workplace and demonstrate that they have take all reasonable step , but think that for third party that impact on freedom of speech ? it do not make sense . if the hon . Lady will allow I to continue , it will become clear why we take such a position ; I will give some concrete example in a few moment of where the law of unintended consequence will kick in on this provision . a 2022 study by the Higher Education Policy Institute find that quiet no - platforming , where student decide not to invite otherwise suitable speaker to an event because of their view , be more common than report case of no - platforming . speaker quietly no - platforme include Alex Salmond , Liam Neeson , Harry Enfield , Tony Blair — one that those on the Labour Benches might blink at — and Peter Hitchens . although this clause be well meaning , it be likely to make matter bad . as James Murray , the legal director of Doyle Clayton , have point out , this clause could well cause difficulty for university in offer a platform to discuss issue on which those listening may have differ view . my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to the problem in university . it have particularly find form in no - platforme speaker deem to be unacceptable or to make people feel uncomfortable because of their view on transsexual , for example . Kathleen Stock , a distinguished academic and a feminist , be no - platforme in exactly that way because of her view that sex be a biological fact . this clause need to be examine in that context . I welcome much about this Bill — particularly on trade union and zero - hour contract , as it happen — but I feel that this one area need to be look at again by the Government , for the very reason that my hon . friend make clear . I totally agree with my right hon . friend that this area need to be look at again to ensure that those unintended consequence that challenge freedom of speech in this country be not allow to come through . I double - underline that we have no truck with harassment : we absolutely believe that it should be stamp out , use criminal law where necessary , to ensure that perpetrator be bring to justice . this Bill open the door to unintended consequence . I will help the hon . Gentleman to come back to the point . two in three young woman have experience sexual harassment or verbal abuse in the workplace . it be important that where they be in customer - face role , they be protect from abuse both by their colleague and manager and by their customer . that be particularly important if they work in a university bar , another sort of bar or a shop or retail setting . I be very pleased to have take the first piece of evidence about the nature and extent of workplace sexual harassment when I work for the TUC in 2015 , and I be sad that it have take we a decade to get to the point where we say , " no more sexual harassment by customer and client . " the conservative party could have achieve that much more quickly if it have just accept the private Member ' s Bill put forward by the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) . I do not think that the hon . Lady be actually disagree with what I have say so far . sexual harassment be clearly a crime — it be already a crime — and any perpetrator of it should be bring to justice . that be cover by different law . will the shadow Minister give way ? in a moment . to answer the hon . member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) , the point I be get at be not about sexual harassment or anything else cover in the criminal law . for example , if somebody who be wait on table or serve at a bar in a hospitality set overhear a conversation that they find themselves deeply offend by — perhaps around the situation in Israel and Gaza right now — this Bill — will the shadow Minister give way ? I will give way to the hon . Lady in a moment . this Bill would criminalise and bring in the banter police and so on just because people be express a perfectly legitimate political view that somebody else find offensive . I double - underline that sexual harassment be absolutely — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the shadow Minister be in danger of mislead the House . nothing that he have refer to be a crime . sexual harassment , as deal with in this Bill , be a civil matter deal with by tribunal . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . that be in fact a point of debate , rather than a point of order . I will get back to James Murray , the legal director of Doyle Clayton , who have point out that this clause could well cause difficulty for university in offer those platform to discuss issue where people have differ view . he say : " if we think about a speaker that have be invite — say it ' s a controversial gender critical speaker , like Julie Bindel or Kathleen Stock — someone might somewhat disingenuously say " that they be an employee of the university and that they find what they say to be deeply harass . he also say : " the concern be that this will shift the balance away from free speech and university will be more risk averse as they win ' t want to be hold liable for third - party harassment . " why do the Government want to run that risk ? there be then the burden on business , particularly in the hospitality sector . will the shadow Minister give way ? the hon . Gentleman have have a go ; he may come back later . Kate Nicholls , the chief executive of ukhospitality , say that staff in restaurant , bar , pub and hotel work in a " social environment " where " there be joke and people be boisterous " . she say that while everyone want to ensure that their staff be protect , " we don ' t want to be police our customer " , and she be concern that this clause could add " undue restriction " . if someone work in a pub or a comedy club , for example , there be a high risk that they might hear comment that they do not like , but it be wrong to restrict free speech just because somebody do not like something . the unintended consequence of this provision be likely to be a chilling effect on free speech and unclear responsibility for employer about where they need to draw the line . rise — rise — I will make some progress . I have be on my foot for a long time , and I know that a lot of people wish to speak in this debate . in other word , this clause could well function as a banter ban at good , and as a restriction on academic debate and inquiry . due to our concern about how this clause will operate , especially in the high education and hospitality sector , we have table amendment 289 , which would carve out the hospitality sector and sport venue from clause 18 . we believe those be the sector where the potential for unintended consequence from this clause will be the great . it be because we believe that clause 18 will create problem , rather than solve they , that we have table new clause 85 , which would require the Secretary of State to report on the clause . the report must include the extent to which the prevalence of third - party harassment make the case for the measure in clause 18 , include an assessment of the impact of the clause on free speech , an assessment of the likely cost of the clause to employer , an assessment of which occupation might be at particular risk of third - party harassment through no fault of the employer , and proposal for mitigation that can be put in place for employer employ people in such occupation . we will require the Secretary of State to lay a report set those out before each House of Parliament , and amendment 285 would prevent clause 18 from come into force until that report be approve by Parliament . the Government need to go away and think again , and that be what our amendment be design to achieve . if the Government be not willing to do so , we have also table amendment 288 , which would leave the clause out of the Bill entirely , so great be our concern about the unintended consequence it could have . will the shadow Minister give way ? once more . since we be discuss this issue for the good part of the previous Parliament , can I ask the shadow Minister whether there be a misunderstanding about what this part of the Bill do ? it be about a preventive duty , not predict everything that could happen in the hospitality sector , for example . the guidance be to make sure that everybody know that their workplace will protect people from harassment — that be what an employer need to do . what be the problem with that ? I be not sure that the hon . Lady have firmly grasp what the Bill say in this respect . of course we want to protect everybody in our society — that be the first duty of Government — but I do not think she have fully consider the unintended consequence in the real world , particularly in the hospitality sector . I will speak briefly to new clause 86 and amendment 286 and 287 . clause 21 and schedule 2 be another example of the Government rush to legislate in an attempt to meet an arbitrary deadline set by the Deputy Prime Minister , with chaotic result . clause 21 will remove the qualifying period for unfair dismissal . again , the Regulatory Policy Committee slap a red rating on the Government ' s impact assessment for these provision , mean that the Government have not adequately justify the need for they . they have admit that they do not have robust datum on the incidence of dismissal for those under two year of employment . in other word , yet again , we do not know whether there be even an actual problem with unfair dismissal for this Bill to try to solve . the british Chambers of Commerce have say that " member say that there would be a reduced hire appetite be this legislation to come in , and that they would be less likely to recruit new employee due to the risk and difficulty , particularly under the day one right , unless there be at least a nine - month probation period " . – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 26 November 2024 ; c . 8 . ] as such , our new clause 86 require the Secretary of State to assess the impact of the provision of clause 21 and schedule 2 , and amendment 286 require Parliament specifically to approve that impact before these section of the Bill can come into force . will the shadow Minister give way ? I be mindful of time , and I do not wish to incur Madam Deputy Speaker ' s wrath , so I will make progress . we have also table amendment 287 , which would remove clause 21 from the Bill entirely , so concerned be we about how damaging it will be to both employer and employee , particularly those who will not get work as a direct consequence of these requirement . our new clause 87 seem a perfectly sensible thing to ask for : a simple requirement that the Secretary of State must have regard to the objective of economic growth and improve the international competitiveness of the UK economy when make regulation under part 1 and 2 of the Bill . if agree to , though , it would of course be a wreck amendment , because the government do not know how they intend to give effect to the provision on guarantee hour , the extension of those provision to agency worker or the provision on unfair dismissal , to name but a few . all of those thing will be leave to regulation after the Bill be pass , without proper scrutiny from this place , and it will be work people who pay the price . our new clause 91 would clamp down on public sector employer use positive discrimination under section 158 and 159 of the Equality Act 2010 where it cause detriment to other employee , and would promote merit - base employment practice . taxpayer rightly expect that their money should be spend well , and part of offer value for money be that taxpayer money should be ruthlessly focus on improve the public service on which all of our constituent rely . that always mean hire on merit . Amendment 290 , which deal with the school support staff negotiate body , be the last of our amendment that I will speak to . in 2010 , the then Conservative Secretary of State for Education , Michael Gove , abolish the school support staff negotiate body . the Conservative Government have a clear and principled reason for this : employer should have the flexibility to set pay and condition locally , rather than have a top - down , centralise framework impose on they . it be to allow school leader — who know well than politician in Whitehall — to innovate and do what work well for their school , their pupil and their employee . instead of give employer flexibility to do what work well for they , the Government be re - establish a national term and condition handbook , training , career progression route and pay rate for school support staff that all school employer will be oblige to follow . we believe that the current arrangement for employ school support staff be work well . will the shadow Minister give way ? I have explain that I do not wish to incur Madam Deputy Speaker ' s wrath , which I fear be close at this point , so I will make some progress . the current arrangement have also allow for innovation that be beneficial for pupil . we believe that school employer must retain a degree of freedom and flexibility to recruit , develop , remunerate and deploy their staff for the benefit of the child in their community , to achieve their particular aim from a school improvement or inclusion perspective . I urge the Government to consider this . there be many more amendment that I could speak to , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I will not . I will only say that this be a bad bit of legislation , and some of the amendment we be consider , particularly those table by the Government , make the Bill bad in many respect . they add to the already heavy burden on business , a burden that will combat growth — will slap down growth — and will mean that the Government will not achieve the objective they have set out to achieve in their landmark , mission , road sign and whatever else they have announce . I therefore urge the Government to consider our amendment , go back , and tame the bad excess of this job - destroy Bill . rise — Order . before I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Select Committee , I want to make clear that I will then call Steve Darling , the liberal Democrat spokesperson . immediately after Mr Darling , there will be a six - minute time limit . I call Liam Byrne . thank you very much indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be go to be very brief — I will just make three quick point — and will do my good to salvage a degree of consensus from the conflict that have characterise this debate at its outset . if there be a couple of thing that unite we across this House , it be that we all believe in fair play , and we all believe in an honest day ' s pay for an honest day ' s work . however , the reality be that million of worker in this country be simply not earn their fair share of the wealth that we produce together . if labour income be the same share of national income as it be back in the 1950 , something like £ 12 , 000 a year would go into the pay packet of every single one of the 33 . 8 million worker in this country . as such , follow a decade that have see 4 million people trap in low pay and during which we have have a living standard crisis , it behove each and every one of we to think more creatively and constructively about how we support worker in this economy to earn a good life for they and their family . we on the Business and Trade Committee have the privilege of hear from some of the good employer in the country , but we also have the duty of interrogate many firm that , frankly , have be let down our country . I will highlight three example , in order to illustrate some of the amendment that have be table in my name and in the name of other right hon . and hon . member . they be not amendment that I wish to press to a division ; they be probe amendment , on which I think the Minister need to provide the House with some answer . I will start with McDonald ' s , which I reference in an early intervention . it be one of the most significant employer in our country , employ over 200 , 000 people . some 90 % of McDonald ' s worker be on zero - hour contract . on the day of our hearing , a BBC investigation by Zoe Conway , its employment correspondent , expose the reality that hundred of McDonald ' s employee be contact the BBC and the ehrc with allegation of the most appalling harassment . we hear about the case of a 17 - year - old McDonald ' s worker who allege that she be be ask for sex in return for a manager give she the shift that she want — how on earth can that be acceptable in today ' s economy ? yet when we put that point to the chief executive of McDonald ' s and ask , " do you think that the imbalance of power that have flourish in McDonald ' s because 90 % of your worker be on zero - hour contract have anything to do with this litany of abuse , or with 700 worker contact their solicitor to bring a case against McDonald ' s ? " , the answer be no . it be an absolutely extraordinary denial of reality . we then hear from Evri , which , as many people know , be one of the most significant courier firm in the country , employ ten of thousand of people . Mr Hugo Martin come before our Committee to give evidence , and tell we that all at Evri be sweetness and light . however , the Committee have now receive hundred upon hundred of complaint from whistleblower , allege that they be be cheat and undercut , most recently through the rate cut , the packet racket which be still persist , health and safety abuse at work , intimidation , bullying and harassment . they be be tell repeatedly that their shift will be cut , or that they will be out of the door if they do not work six day a week . our constituent be experience this completely unacceptable behaviour . I must be careful about scope at this point , Madam Deputy Speaker , but we also hear from the company Shein , which could not even tell we whether the product that it make contained cotton from China . we be simply try to understand whether worker in our country be be undercut by an abuse of modern slavery practice abroad . I say to the House that although we may have our difference on the Bill , we must accept the reality that million of people in this country — million of the people we be send here to represent — be be treat in a way that should be unacceptable in a 21st - century economy . what the good employer tell the Committee , time and again , be that they support the spirit of the Bill , although of course they have concern about the detail , and it be good that the Minister be listen . what they do not want to see persist be the situation that they fear , in which the good firm be be undercut by the bad . we must have a level playing field in this country : that will be a necessity if we be to win a global race to the top . my amendment 275 to 277 suggest alteration to the zero hour regime that the Minister have set out . I think we should abolish the definition of " low hour " in contract . I accept the evidence that be give to we by Paddy Lillis , the brilliant general secretary of the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers , that retain the definition create a risk of loophole that will be exploit by bad employer . amendment 278 to 281 , which might be term the McDonald ' s amendment , urge the Secretary of State to put on the face of the Bill a definition of " reasonable notice " in relation to the moving of shift and the compensation that should be entail in the event of unreasonable shift movement . we need to ensure that our worker , particularly young worker , be never again subject to the kind of abuse that we have see unfold at McDonald ' s . those day must be consign to the past . new clause 80 , which might be describe as the Evri amendment , create an obligation and duty for the Secretary of State to bring to the House , within six month of the Bill ' s come into the force , the final version of a review of the single status of worker . we hear compelling evidence from the director of Labour Market Enforcement , who tell we that the Government , Ministers and civil servant could consult " until the cow come home " . we could put off the consultation about the different definition of " worker " for ever and a day , when what we need to do be end the kind of abuse that we see at Evri now . ensure that these loophole be close so that bogus self - employment be no long a loophole through which bad employer abuse honest worker : I should like to see the Minister step up to that requirement . new clause 81 , which we might call the Shein amendment , require the Government to update the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , and section 54 in particular , to ensure that the employment right grant in the Bill be not undermine by company operate in this country that be abuse this legislation . at the time the Modern Slavery Act be world - lead legislation , but we hear clear evidence from company such as Tesco that this country risk become a " dump ground " for bad product produce by worker exploit abroad . we can not allow this country , which lead the abolition of slavery , to be a country in which we have second - class protection against modern slavery in the 21st century , and I should therefore welcome a commitment from the Minister on when the Act will be update . we welcome some of the Government amendment , particularly the enhance protection for agency worker and the action on umbrella company . both be recommendation in the Committee ' s excellent report , which I commend to all member . I hope that , as a result of this debate , we can salvage some consensus . the Bill will go through today , and this will be the big overhaul of employment right in the country . we must ensure that it last for the future , and the more we can do to bring a cross - party consensus around that simple idea that all worker — all constituent — in the country should have the right , the power and the freedom to earn a good life for themselves and their family , and the soon we can do it , the well . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the holy grail seek by all government , of whichever hue , be economic growth . I therefore think it important for we to look through the lens of economic growth , and to think about whether the Bill drive it . I recall from my time in Committee , where I spend many hour listen to the oratory of the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , that we speak a great deal about productivity and whether it would be drive by the Bill . I have speak about the possible impact of the Bill to people in my community , include representative of Enlighten HR and Alison Benney , a human resource consultant , for whom its destination be very welcome . indeed , we have hear from many other people who have be consult that the Bill ' s destination and aspiration be correct and appropriate , but it be a question of how we get there and whether the Government have achieve the right balance between employer and employee . that be important , because the last thing we want the Bill to do be have a chilling effect on the economy . we be only too well aware that the national insurance contribution that be set to kick in next month be already have that negative impact , and we do not want this well - intend Bill to echo that far . there be 250 amendment before we at this late stage of the legislation . the Minister say that that be due to level of consultation and so forth and should be welcome , and that we be trim our sail , but if that be the case , and if the Minister be in such listen mode in Committee , why do the Government accept no opposition amendment whatsoever ? I should welcome some reflection from the Minister when he wind up the debate . as a liberal Democrat , and the Liberal Democrat spokesman for the Department for Work and Pensions , I can say that carer be at the front and centre of our world . what be effectively the population of Portsmouth — 200 , 000 people a year , or 600 a day — walk away from the employment market to take up caring occupation and , in many instance , support family member . that have an £ 8 billion annual impact on our economy , which leave we less productive . I hope that the Government will give serious thought to our amendment to make leave for carer a pay opportunity , because give they that flexibility and that breathe space would unlock more people for our employment market . our proposal to make care a protect characteristic be extremely important . we have already hear about harassment and discrimination in connection with other part of the Bill , but this would help immensely to support carer . double the pay of those take adoption leave be also important , as be support for people who take caring role such as kinship care . I hope that the Ministers will take those family role into account . do my hon . friend agree that the Government have miss an opportunity to recognise the extraordinary contribution of kinship carer in this Bill ? I recently meet a couple in my constituency who be kinship carer . they have act out of love , but they have have none of the support that foster parent would have have in look after the child in their care . do my hon . friend agree that the Government would do well to look at include the same employment right for kinship carer as they currently offer to foster parent ? as somebody who be adopt myself , I know only too well the importance of supportive love . I have be heavily involve with child ' s service , and I know that the good care for child in need of love home be often not too far away from home . the more that child ' s service can be less of a child - rescue service and more of a child support service , the well , so I strongly endorse what my hon . friend allude to . an area that particularly exercise the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire in Committee be third - party harassment , and I strongly support the Government ' s proposal in this Bill . I have engage with young woman in Torbay who work in retail and the hospitality industry , particularly those from Torquay girl ' grammar school , and they find that harassment in the workplace be not a bit of banter , but repugnant in the extreme . they tell I that they will go to a shift feeling sick to the stomach because they know a particular individual will be come in that evening who will act inappropriately . their manager should have a duty of care toward they , and I welcome that proposal in the Bill . I know that some of the amendment allude to non - disclosure agreement . I welcome the Minister ' s kind word , but warm word do not get measure into legislation . I ask he to reflect on that , and I be sure that colleague will speak about nda . the final area I need to cover be probationary period . we Liberal Democrats would really welcome put a three to nine - month probationary period on the face of the Bill , which would ensure that there be less chance of expensive tribunal for employer . we welcome the step that the Government have take in respect of statutory sick pay , but we need to ensure that the correct balance be strike between the burden on employer and positive outcome for employee . I welcome the amendment put forward by the Liberal Democrats , especially new clause 12 to 14 , which would extend paternity leave from two to six week and double the amount of pay . those precious week be essential for father to bond with their child and to provide additional support to their partner . do my hon . friend agree that these be essential new clause that the Government should accept ? I agree with my hon . friend . when I go and speak to primary school teacher , they say that they face a challenge where there be poor attachment between the parent and the child , which can have a significant developmental impact on young people . by give great power through this Bill , we can drive strong connection between those part of the family unit . the reality be that we need to support small business and get the right balance between implement the good stuff in this Bill and make sure that we be not punish business . we need to make sure that we support the family , because , as I have say , the family be the core part of what our society be , and strengthen that will hopefully strengthen outcome and strengthen our society . my fear be that this Bill be a little bit like Snow White ' s apple : it may have look extremely good on the outside , but it send she to sleep . my fear be that this Bill be a little like that , because it may have a lot of promise on the outside , but it could be a sleep potion for our economy . I give my full support to the measure in the Bill . without question , they be some of the most progressive in this area of legislation for decade . my new clause 25 seek to set up a work time council , comprise business , trade union , Government Departments and expert on the subject , to advise the Secretary of State on how the transition from a five - day week to a four - day week would affect employer and employee , and on how business , public body and other organisation should approach such a transition . virtually every progressive change in employment legislation over the decade have be pooh - poohe by the conservative party . leopard do not change their spot , as we have see in spade today . in the evidence session , the Minister ask some witness what the productivity implication of some of the proposal contain in the Bill would be . the answer from Professor Simon Deakin , of Cambridge University , be that " there be a strong correlation between strong labour protection and both productivity and innovation . " he go on to say that research " show that , on average , strengthen employment law in this country in the last 50 year have have pro - employment effect , for various reason . " – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 28 November 2024 ; c . 137 - 138 , Q141 . ] I know the shadow Minister be there when Professor Deakin say that . historically , it be a well - trodden path for some to object to measure that would advance employment right , even if those right be of advantage to everyone concern , be it employer , employee or society more generally . that be especially so in the medium to long term , because legislature do not just legislate for today ; they also legislate for tomorrow . I thank the Minister — my admiration for he know no bound — and other member for the work that they have put into this Bill . my primary aim in table new clause 25 be to try to get the debate about the four - day week out of the block . I accept that the notion be challenging , but that be not a reason to put off the debate ; the discussion have to be have . it be over 100 year since the introduction of a five - day week in different industry , which be down to the influence of Henry Ford , who be not the most radical of people . in the 1920 , the introduction of the two - day weekend for those work at his car factory be a pivotal moment . he argue that it would boost worker productivity and morale , and it do . the argument that a short week affect business resilience or productivity have be use time and again . the Factories Act 1961 contain requirement to deal with overcrowding , control temperature and introduce ventilation , all of which be oppose at the time on the basis of cost . as colleague will know , the same argument be put forward about the Equal Pay Act 1970 . it be the same when pay holiday be introduce in 1938 . People say the minimum wage be go to cost hundred of thousand of job , but we all know that it do not . paternity and maternity leave be eschew because it be say to damage industry , but do it do so ? no , it do not . research from Barclays show that work hour in the UK have fall by 5 % on average in the past four decade , with british worker now work 27 % more hour on average than their german counterpart . worker in France , Italy and Spain have enjoy a 10 % decline in work hour , but despite people in this country work long hour than those in our competitor and partner nation , we be one of the least productive country in the G7 , and we have to do something about that . what about the impact on employer ? will the hon . member give way ? well , I do not want to , but I will . maybe I be pre - empte the answer the hon . Member be go to give , but what exactly be the measure in this Bill and the amendment — the magic potion — that will improve productivity ? I be pleased the hon . Lady ask I that question , because it be patently obvious that well working condition lead to less absenteeism , more resilience in the workforce and well productivity . it be not a magic potion , but what be know as enlighten employment . she may like to read about that , and if she want , I will put she in touch with a few people who can talk to she about it . in that study I mention , 71 % report reduced level of burnout , 54 % say it be easy to balance work with household responsibility , 60 % find they have an increase ability to combine pay work with care responsibility , and 62 % report that it be easy to combine work with social life , and so on and so on . as I have say , the Bill seek to put this issue on the agenda , because I believe it be inevitable — history show it — that change in pattern of work , working arrangement , the nature of work and other associate issue , such as artificial intelligence , will eventually lead to a four - day week over a period of time . so let we embrace the change and let we plan for the change . if we do want to get the country back to work , get the country work productively and get many million of people without work back into work , let we do this as progressively as we possibly can . finally , if we be lengthen the time we ask people to work by an extra year , two year or maybe three year in the future — if we ask they to have a long work life — the least we can do be to ask they to have a short week . what be wrong with that , and be it really too much to ask ? I do not think so , and many employer and employee take the same view , so let we not make an enemy of progress . why do we not just embrace it ? I rise to speak to the measure on zero - hour contract , and opposition new clause 83 and amendment 283 . it be absolutely right that we should pause to consider the effect of these change on employment tribunal , but it be also right that we should pause to consider their effect just on employment . of course , there be bad employer and those who would seek to exploit , which be a very bad thing . we should bear down on they , but there be no reason to believe that the measure the Government be bring forward will achieve that . I suggest that the Government want to get rid of zero - hour contract not because intrinsically there be a great problem attach to they , but because of the special place zero - hour contract have in Labour mythology . I want to take we back to the glory day of the modern Labour party when the leader of the Labour party be the current leader ' s immediate predecessor , the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . I see the then shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) be with we in the Chamber , and as it happen , I be the Minister for Employment at the time . when our government come to power , unemployment have be 8 % , and it then rise a little bit to 8 . 5 % at the end of 2011 . from then on , it come down , and it keep come down . by late 2016 , it be under 5 % , and it would fall far still . however , that do not fit Labour Members ' narrative . they want to be able to say that this reduction in unemployment be not real : it be all fake employment or low - quality employment . that be not true , but it do not stop they say it . in fact , three quarter of the increase in employment be in high - skilled occupation , and three quarter of the job growth be in full - time work . at that time , employment be grow much more quickly than self - employment , and the no . 1 sector for employment growth be construction . however , Labour Members still keep say that the job be create be all low - quality one , and at the top of the list of thing to call out be the zero - hour contract . the then Leader of the opposition use to talk about it weekly at Prime Minister ' s Question Time . there be a couple of awkward moment , such as after his glorious appearance at Glastonbury , when it turn out that the Glastonbury festival — guess what ? — employ people on zero - hour contract . there be far embarrassment when it turn out that there be people work for none other than the Labour party conference who be on zero - hour contract . at the DWP we do some research , and it turn out that less than 3 % of people rely on a zero - hour contract for their main employment . on average , it deliver they 25 hour of work a week , while , strangely , they have above - average job satisfaction , and most be not look for more hour . People say the number have grow , but it be actually much more likely that that be because of grow awareness of the term " zero - hour contract " . think about our history , it have long be the case that far more than 3 % of people have have irregular income pattern , where they have not have guarantee hour of work or level of salary — from casual labour to piece work , catalogue agent and commission - only sale . at a certain point , it dawn on I that my own first job have be wash dish on a zero - hour contract — or at least it would have be , have a contract be involve at all . do the right hon . member accept that someone choose to take on an irregular contract when they be at the high end of the pay scale with significant professional skill and expectation for the future be very different from the endemic insecurity at the bottom of the labour market , which be where zero - hour contract be concentrated ? some 83 % of people on a zero - hour contract — order . I think the hon . Lady be in fact make her speech , rather than an intervention . [ interruption . ] oh , her speech will come tomorrow . the hon . member be right : of course those thing be different , but with the dawning realisation I have back then , I start to wonder who else might take a zero - hour contract ? yes , it be true that disproportionately they be young people , but for quite a lot of people a zero - hour contract be for a second job . I would be interested to hear from the Government their assessment of that . it turn out , when we look at this in 2016 , that one of the big user of zero - hour contract in the country be none other than the national health service , so that it could cope with increase in demand . these be people who have a permanent job as well , but who could , as bank staff , supply other hour when that be need . for this government , it be totemic to do something about zero - hour contract because of that Labour mythology . for the union , there be also another reason . this be classic insider - outsider theory , with a shift in remuneration from people who be not in work to people who be already in work , and it push up what be call the non - accelerate inflation rate of unemployment . in plain English , it be bad for job . the Chancellor of the Exchequer must know that because , as we all know , she be most definitely an economist — she have work as an economist , she have train as an economist and she be an economist — and this be classical economic reality . for whom might zero - hour contract work well ? they work well for any employer with an unpredictable , variable need for worker — from the event business to the NHS , as I have mention — and there be other obvious case in tourism , agriculture and food . however , some people may just choose to have that flexibility . over the last two year it have be a seller ' s market to go into teaching , but some people have still choose to become a supply teacher because , for whatever reason , for they that work well . the other group for whom this may work be those furth from the labour market , who have perhaps be out of work for a very long time , who perhaps be ex - offender , or who for some other reason find it difficult to immediately land a regular , full - time job . when this be combine with universal credit — which , by the way , the right hon . member for Islington North also want to abolish — it can work very well , because the top - up payment can be adjust accord to how much someone earn week to week . this Bill be bind to have unintended consequence . we do not know exactly which one they will be , but I will suggest some of they . it could suppress seasonal peak in employment — for tourism in the summer , but also at Christmas time — because employer will not want to take on the liability from the reference period . it could deter people from second job , which will be bad for growth . it could mean people move from contract employment to self - employment or casual work . it could mean a move from permanent contract to temporary contract and , yes , it could hit our national health service and other important public sector employer . I do not doubt that this piece of legislation will be good for union , but it will be bad for the economy and bad for growth , and it will be especially bad for people in the hard circumstance who so badly want to get back to work , and for whom this kind of contract can also be that important first step . I congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , and the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) on all their incredible work in bring forward this landmark piece of legislation . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , who be co - sponsor new clause 74 with I today . this be the first speech I have give as a Back Bencher in nearly 10 year . one of the few benefit of — ahem — elevate oneself to the Back Benches be the ability to speak much more routinely on behalf of my constituent and those without a political voice . the amendment I rise to speak to today be literally about the voiceless : those who have be legally silence in the name of organisational and personal preservation . new clause 74 would prohibit employer from enter into non - disclosure agreement with worker in relation to complaint of sexual misconduct , abuse , harassment or discrimination . it very closely mirror legislation recently pass in Ireland that ban nda in those circumstance but allow they at the express consent of the victim , and legislation that have be pass in multiple US state in relation to sexual harassment . nda have a perfectly legitimate use in business to protect commercial confidentiality and trade , but they be frequently misuse to bully people into silence when they have already suffer at work . we know of the most high - profile case , from Harvey Weinstein to Mohamed Al - Fayed , only because their brave survivor risk breach their nda . but these agreement be far from confine to celebrity abuser ; they be be misuse and exploit on a vast scale . the campaign can ' t Buy my silence — lead by Zelda Perkins , who help to expose the abuse of Harvey Weinstein — have also uncover multiple scandal in the high education sector , which lead to action by the former Government to ban the use of nda in that sector . we sadly know that , in our own labour movement , trade union have be accuse of use confidentiality clause in settlement , which have the same chilling effect as nda . I have be tell story — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . would the right hon . Lady be kind enough to declare her union interest from her entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ? I believe there be a £ 10 , 000 donation — order . that be not a matter for the Chair , but a point for the Member . I be very grateful for that point of order . I be , of course , very happy to declare my interest , as set out in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , just as I be in the process of criticise a trade union . trade union have be accuse of use confidentiality clause in settlement , which have the same chilling effect as nda . I have be tell story that should be on the front page of newspaper , such as the man who be accuse of rape , sign an NDA and be pay off . his alleged victim only find out year later that that have be the case while she be still work in the same workplace . medium organisation such as ITN have come under recent criticism . as former employee Daisy Ayliffe say : " woman who work for ITN have try to report harassment and discrimination , but soon after do so find themselves suddenly out of a job and bind by non - disclosure agreement . " another former employee of ITN , on see Daisy speak out , realise that his experience be far from unique and ask that I use parliamentary privilege today to speak about the confidentiality clause he be require to sign . he have ask that I do not use his name , so I will call he Mr B . Mr B join ITN in 2008 on a scheme call Enabling Talent , which aim to recruit more disabled people into the organisation . he suffer from a condition call functional neurological disorder , which have a number of symptom , include non - epileptic seizure or dissociate seizure , which he describe as zone - out or blackout . in 2008 , ITN make a number of reasonable adjustment for he , include help with note taking , a key to the first aid room , and disability leave when require in order to avoid stress and fatigue - induce seizure . he state that at the time he could not fault his employer for the support it give he . Mr B leave ITN to pursue his career elsewhere and return in 2017 , when he again declare his disability and make a request for similar adjustment . despite multiple request for the kind of help he have receive before , none be forthcoming . instead , he suffer severe bullying and discrimination , include pressure to disclose his disability widely to his colleague . the situation get so bad that his zone - out and blackout become increasingly frequent . after suffer one seizure at work , he be require to apologise to those who have witness it . he be repeatedly accuse of lie about his disability and tell that his issue be nothing to do with his disability , despite have join ITN on a disability inclusion scheme . Mr B take ITN to tribunal , incur ten of thousand of pound in legal cost . he settle but be require to sign a confidentiality clause . his health have deteriorate so badly that he now use a wheelchair 50 % of the time and , follow the loss of his job , he be , for a period , make homeless . do my right hon . friend agree that in such case there be no public interest and no interest for anyone , apart from guilty party , to keep these thing secret , and that that be why it be important nda be not use to hide problem that employer should sort out ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention ; he be absolutely right . there be many organisation , include the BBC , that as a policy do not use nda . imagine suffer that kind of treatment at work : lose your job , lose your health , and then be ban from explain to another potential employer , or even your close friend , what have happen to you . it make it next to impossible to recover from the experience , very difficult to find work again and vanishingly unlikely that the organisation will face up to its wrongdoing and enact change . for Mr B , for survivor of monster such as Mohamed Al - Fayed , and for the thousand of victim across our society who have be legally require to suffer in silence , I hope the House can agree that such agreement have no place in modern society . and if it can happen in organisation such as ITN , whose job be literally to expose injustice , or in trade union , whose job be to protect worker , then it can happen anywhere . organisation in these instance , no matter who they be , will circle the wagon and protect themselves rather than the victim . by do so , they protect abuser . that be why we must simply remove the tool of their abuse and end the use of nda in these circumstance . I be very grateful to the Minister for his early response and for confirm that the issue warrant further consideration , but may I press he a little far on exactly how we can see progress ? and we must see progress . it be sicken that across the country woman and man will have suffer abuse in their workplace and that , instead of action against the perpetrator , they be the one who be shame and silence , gang up on by lawyer and sentence to a lifetime of regret . as a member of the Public Bill Committee for the Bill , I be surprise by the number of amendment the Government table to their own legislation in Committee . there be hundred of amendment , demonstrate how badly the Bill be draft when it be first propose . it be clearly a bad idea to commit to introduce such a major piece of legislation within 100 day of the election , but I guess that be the price of trade union money to fund the Labour party . have have 21 sitting in Committee scrutinise the Bill line by line , we now find ourselves with another vast number of Government amendment once again , but this time with only two day to scrutinise it . Most of the amendment on the amendment paper be the Government ' s . the amendment paper be thick than the original Bill . this be a bad bill . it push up the cost of labour , make our flexible labour market less flexible and will increase unemployment . I be pleased to have table new clause 30 , which would add special constable to the scope of section 50 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , give they the right to unpaid leave to perform their duty . special constable be volunteer who give their time at no cost to the taxpayer to help our police force . special have exist in some form ever since the Special Constables Act 1831 , which allow justice of the peace to conscript volunteer to combat riot and social unrest . the special constabulary as we know it be establish by the Police Act 1964 , which give chief constable the authority to appoint and manage special constable . today ' s special carry all the same legal power as their full - time counterpart , both on and off duty , and put themselves in harm ' s way without payment to keep our society safe . today , the special constabulary — an institution that have serve this nation for nearly two century — face a crisis . the number of volunteer officer have fall by two third in the past decade ; in the past year alone , we have see a 20 % drop . many police force now face significant gap in their special constabulary rank . this be not just a temporary dip , but a long - term trend . there be multiple factor at play , but clearly become a special be not an attractive proposition to too many potential recruit . I believe we must act now to ensure that the special constabulary continue to play a vital role in police for generation to come . it be in that context that I bring forward my amendment to the Bill , which seek to amend section 50 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 . for those who be not aware , section 50 allow those undertake a number of community role to request unpaid time off work to perform their duty . on the list be magistrate , local councillor , school governor and even member of the Environment Agency . it seem strange to I that we would exclude those prepared to keep we safe from the list of community - minded citizen . of course , some employer be understand and already try to support officer on their staff . when the Association of Special Constabulary Officers write to the Minister call for he to back these change , he respond that the Employer Supported policing scheme be be promote to increase the number of special , but this be simply not enough . a survey complete by ASCO last year show that more than 60 % of special be not support by their employer , and it be currently lawful for employer to refuse time off for special . the riot last summer demonstrate the benefit of have a flexible police force . give the Government ' s focus on promote neighbourhood and community police , increase the number of special seem like a good choice . this measure will not cost the taxpayer a penny — it simply put special constable on the same footing as other volunteer . this new clause have the support of right hon . and hon . member from almost every party represent in this House and have be endorse by 10 police and crime commissioner . importantly , Assistant Chief Constable Bill Dutton , act in his capacity as the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead for the special constabulary , have provide his write support for include special constable under section 50 . I believe that this new clause would help the recruitment and retention of many new special constable and make our street safe . it would also finally recognise the work of the special and put they on the same footing as the thousand of other people in the country who be allow time off work to complete valuable civic duty . it be in that spirit that I ask the Minister to seriously consider whether the Government will accept new clause 30 . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my union membership . the legislation before we today be truly historic . it be totemic in scale — the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . I commend the Minister and the team for the work they have do . the Bill deliver not only for work family , but for the whole country . it will lead to high productivity , high wage and , ultimately , economic growth . these reform be unashamedly pro - worker and pro - business , in sharp contrast with the past 14 year , when we see low pay , low productivity and low growth in the economy . shockingly , productivity grow by just 0 . 2 % a year between 2010 and 2020 . since 2011 , we have see insecure work rise nearly three time as fast as secure work . whether it be the 800 P & O worker who be sack over Zoom without notice , the retail worker whose shift get cancel last minute and now can not afford their weekly food shop , or the 9 million people — one in three worker in this country — not protect from unfair dismissal , it can not go on . I will talk briefly about some of the measure in the Bill . day one right will provide a serious boost for million of people . nine million worker have less than two year ' service with their employer , and thus do not enjoy protection from unfair dismissal . I would welcome some clarity around the initial period of employment . what specific timeframe would the measure apply to , and what exactly do it mean ? moreover , I urge the Government to look at what support be available for small firm that be concerned about the impact that the measure may have on their cost . can we consider what more can be do to guide company through these change ? zero - hour contract be endemic across our economy . so many people with those contract be give very little notice when their work be cancel . in some case , they may have already sort out their childcare or make travel arrangement . let I turn briefly to industrial relation . an important element of the legislation be set the new framework for industrial relation . the Business and Trade Committee hear from many good employer , such as Jaguar Land Rover and British Aerospace , that work with the union to create the right employment practice across their business . by contrast , we also witness the mistreatment of worker and the denial of their basic right at Amazon , which clearly have problem in the workplace . the propose Fair Work Agency , which be welcome by union and progressive business alike , be a positive move . as we hear in the Business and Trade Committee , the agency need to be adequately resource , because it be so important . I shall turn to some of the amendment that I support . we just hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) about new clause 74 . one constituent of mine , Mrs E , be the victim of harassment in the workplace . she be victim to a particular individual who be protect by the management . ultimately , she have to leave the organisation . he then also have to leave himself . Harassment be such a problem in the workplace , and it be something that must be address in this legislation . new clause 81 relate to modern slavery . the Select Committee hear about the problem of Shein and how company in the UK have be disadvantage by the practice of business that operate elsewhere . I wish to talk a bit more about productivity and the point that I raise with the shadow Minister . the legislation be important because it bring not only great benefit to worker , but even great responsibility for employer . tight employment legislation lead to great productivity , as we see in France and Germany . both country have see a 20 % advantage in their productivity compare with that of the UK . this be why we have see such a stagnant economy in the UK over the past 10 year . this legislation be another reminder to the people of this country that only the Labour party can deliver for working family . it will mean less uncertainty at work , less insecurity at work and more money in people ' s pocket . I urge the Government to look at the Fair Work Agency , and particularly at the definition of " reasonable notice " , " move " and " short notice " , and to provide clarity on how many week the initial and subsequent reference period should be . this be a colossal piece of legislation that be so important in this decade . it bring about real change , which be what this party will deliver for work people , thereby boost productivity and ultimately grow the economy . I rise to speak to new clause 74 , which appear in the name of the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) . I pay tribute to she and say that the back Benches be very lucky to have she . may I also pay tribute to Mr B , whose story she tell so movingly ? the campaign to redress the power imbalance for those offer non - disclosure agreement in case of sexual harassment , harassment , bullying and discrimination have be many year in the making . it transcend organisation and it transcend party . I pay tribute to member past and present of all colour who have be part of this campaign for so long . I be pleased to hear from the Minister from the Dispatch Box that he hope to continue to make progress , but I hope to urge he to go far fast , and for very good reason . it be long past time that this practice just stop . I want to reveal another never - before - tell story from ITN . it be never - before - reveal because it be cover by a non - disclosure agreement , which mean that I will be use privilege to reveal the detail . before I begin , it be worth say that the victim be not alone ; I understand that there be seven out there from ITN — we have hear another one today — and that investigation have be do by ITN ' s board , which be intent on change . this victim be clear that she do not want to cause ITN problem , but she want mp to understand the effect that this continue to have on her life and why we need to act quickly . this young woman be in her mid - 20 when she land her dream job at ITN . she quickly become trap in what we understand to be a coercive , control sexual relationship with an old male editor . he would hurl wild accusation at she and accuse she of affair with colleague . she end up suffer from panic attack as a result of the relationship . before Christmas 2019 , she finally have the courage to end it . when she return to work in January , she have be demote . her hour be reduce and so be her pay . the first editor she tell warn she to stay silent . she say : " you don ' t want to be one of those woman who always moan about be wrong . " she then confide in a more senior editor , and thing get bad . she tell she : " it ' s not like he ever hit you . it ' s not like you ever have to go to A & E with broken bone . " she go to work every day for the next year . it take ITN month to agree to an hr investigation into what happen . it agree only on the condition that she would also be investigate . hr find that it could not assess the complaint because it be criminal in nature , but at the same time find it to be unfounded . that make no sense . around this time , she ask a question at an ITN woman ' s empowerment forum , in front of all staff , during the pandemic . she simply ask , " what support be there for woman who report allege sexual harassment in the workplace ? " within an hour , her email have be cut off . hr summon she to an urgent meeting ; her primary offence , it would seem , be ask for help . from that moment , she be suspend without pay . she have be completely cut off from almost all support network for about a year . ITN tell she that she be not allow to tell anyone — except the police , to be fair — what be happen . even her good friend have to sign an NDA to attend a meeting to support she . the NHS offer her group therapy for her anxiety , but she feel that she have to decline because the organisation insist that she stay silent . her lawyer say that the organisation be try to starve she out in negotiation over her exit . they take year . by the time they get to a settlement , she have rack up £ 70 , 000 in legal fee . I know from experience that it be a practice of employment lawyer who work for employer to go on to Google Maps and look at the house in which complainant live , to assess the asset that they be likely to have and whether they be likely to be able to afford to continue their defence to tribunal , or whether they could be offer a small amount as a settlement . do the hon . Lady agree that nda be provide cover for that ? absolutely . this be exactly the kind of behaviour that we need to put a stop to . the young woman eventually reach a settlement , but it be extremely one - sided . she panic , because the NDA gag not just she but her partner , her good friend and her parent , but it do not gag the man or the senior executive involve in the harassment that she face . it cover not just business matter — we be not seek to stop confidentiality agreement on business matter — but everything painful that she have endure . her mental health spiral and she end up in hospital . every day that she be in a hospital bed , the lawyer send her automatic reminder to sign her NDA . this be a woman at she most vulnerable . it be entirely wrong that she be put in that position . it be worth say that almost none of that NDA be enforceable . it if be take to court , it would fail . the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 make it clear that she should have be able to get that support . we be kid ourselves if we think that nda be not still be use and issue . they be . that be why this Bill — whether now , in the Lords or wherever — need to put a stop to it . many year on , follow an investigation into the treatment of these worker at ITN , the woman do believe that the organisation be try to change , and she be grateful to the executive from within who be push for reform . the late update be that ITN be willing to renegotiate her NDA . that be laudable , but she should never have be put under one in the first place , and those protection should be everywhere . we face a weird situation which we in the House have create . in the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , there be a provision — it be table as an amendment by Labour and take on in the Lords by the then Conservative Government — that say that such non - disclosure agreement be not allow , but it cover only high education setting , because that be the scope of the Act . I be an Oxford MP . how do it make any sense at all that I might have a constituent who be protect from such non - disclosure agreement if they work for the university but not if they work for any of the university spin - out ? the hon . Member be make a powerful speech . I pay tribute to the people who have share their experience . do she agree that the people we be talk about have mean and support network , and that without these protection the most vulnerable in society will be affect , which be why get the law right be so important ? I thank the hon . Member very much ; these people be indeed incredibly brave . what we be try to show be that it happen to man and woman , it be discrimination , it be sexual harassment , and it be ubiquitous — it be happen everywhere and it be happen now . we be not seek to silence people . in fact , new clause 74 say that if a victim want an NDA for whatever reason , they would be allow one . the new clause simply seek to redress the gap . how can it be right that , sometime soon , in some establishment , worker will be protect and that in other they will not ? it be time for the Government to sort this out . the new clause do not say exactly how they should do that , but that the protection afford to all worker anywhere should be the same as those afford in university . it would give the Government six month from the Bill ' s enactment to sort it out , which should be plenty of time . arguably , they should be able to tackle this with something in the Lords , which would give they a bit of extra time . I urge the Minister not to wait for some other Bill or some other time . I welcome the meaningful word that we have hear from the Dispatch Box . however , I also urge he to look back — I appreciate that that be not to this Government but another one — because we have hear this before . the campaign have transcend party and transcend year — it have transcend Parliaments . we be make slow progress ; meanwhile , victim continue to be hurt day after day . every day that these nda — often make in perpetuity — endure , that hurt and trauma continue . please , let this be the Government who put the abuse of non - disclosure agreement where they belong — in the trash can — so that we finally afford the protection that we be about to give to all university worker to every single employee . as per my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , I be a member of GMB . my union membership have give I reassurance for many year that I have back if I need it . I be conscious that although in this place we may be listen to when we speak up , for too many people insecurity and lack of respect at work be an everyday experience . business suffer under the failure of the previous Government to act when reform be need . that be not in this area alone , of course , but today we be speak about the relevant amendment . we can come back to their other failing another day — or perhaps on more than one other day — because this be the time for action and we be the party of business . everyone should have a contract that reflect the hour that they work . there be a place for flexibility , but people need to sort out transport and childcare and plan their household budget , so we will ensure that agency and low or zero - hour contract work for both side — for business and worker . for too long , zero - hour contract have often be at the expense of people who be just try to make a living for themselves and their family . we will put a stop to that . a day ' s work deserve a fair day ' s pay , and give the Fair Work Agency the power to bring civil proceeding and issue penalty be an important move . the vast majority of employer respect the right of the people who work for they and have nothing to fear from that . in fact , they will welcome the levelling of the play field . as they tell we all the time , their good practice must not be undermine by the unscrupulous minority . we also say that everyone should be free from harassment when they be at their place of work . the message that Conservative Members send when they object to that protection — to , among other , the many thousand of young woman who have be harass at work — be appal . in contrast , we believe that everyone deserve respect at work , whatever the industry they work in . I want to reassure , among other , worker in the hospitality and retail industry that they matter , they deserve well and we be on their side . far , when issue happen , it be to everyone ' s benefit to resolve they quickly . we will fast - track decision making and back that up with robust fine . that help business and worker and it minimise stress , cost and delay . I be pleased that the Bill be welcome by many of our lead employer , include Centrica , as already mention . I know Centrica well ; it have a training academy in my constituency . its chief executive , Chris , be fully supportive of the legislation as not just the right thing to do but as a foundation for a high - growth , high - skill economy and the progress that our country need . a stable workforce will help both employer and worker . the chaos of repeat strike have damage business and service and leave our country reel . the conservative party may be instinctively oppose to empower ordinary people , but on the Labour Benches , we say that these be the people who keep our country go and they have the full support of this Government . I rise to speak to new clause 75 and to other new clause and amendment in my name . last year , the Labour party commit to " strengthen statutory sick pay , remove the low earning limit to make it available to all worker and remove the wait period . " although the removal of the low earning limit and the wait period be welcome , the fact remain that the UK ' s statutory sick pay do not meet the need of work people . the miserly increase to the rate — it have just be increase by £ 2 after five year — be far from the transformative change that Labour promise and will not help to deliver a healthy population and a grow economy . indeed , only a few year ago , during the covid period , the Minister note that the then Health Secretary have " admit that he could not live on statutory sick pay " . — [ Official Report , First Delegated Legislation Committee Delegated Legislation Committee , 25 January 2021 ; c . 7 . ] to be clear , the UK be lag behind in its provision of SSP , offer one of the least generous system in the OECD . while the Labour Government propose a rate of £ 118 . 75 a week , or 80 % of average weekly earning — whichever be low — numerous other european country , such as Austria , Germany , Iceland and Luxembourg either provide full salary payment or cover a portion of earning range from 50 % to 90 % . amendment 272 would bring the UK into close alignment with other OECD country . with limited coverage and relatively low rate , many worker and particularly low - income and part - time employee be leave without sufficient financial support when they fall ill . such a gap in sick pay provision impact worker ' wellbee , exacerbate financial stress during illness , and can discourage people from take the necessary time off to recover . it contribute to poor health outcome , undermine long , healthy working life across the UK population . surely no one in this House want that to continue . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation state that the most effective way of strengthen sick pay be by increase the rate . there be numerous amendment that would do that , include new clause 76 in my name , which would gradually increase the rate of statutory sick pay over the next five year , take it to at least 80 % of the rate of the national living wage , and other that propose SSP to be the high of a prescribed rate or percentage of usual weekly earning . moreover , a report by WPI Economics show that sick pay reform could result in a net financial benefit to this country of more than £ 4 billion . it also find that the positive effect of sick pay reform would particularly help the increase proportion of the british workforce who manage long - term condition and ensure that few worker fall out of the job market entirely . as an example , many people with multiple sclerosis need to take time off work for vary length of time for reason relate to their condition . some people with MS be well support by their employer through occupational sick pay — of course we support that — and can take the time off work that they need on full pay . when people with MS can get the financial support they need while they be off work , they can often stay in work for long , as they can well manage their symptom in the long term . this need to be the same for all those with MS and other long - term condition who rely on SSP . new clause 75 would require the Secretary of State to consider such a change , with the aim of properly reform this outdated and inflexible system . change for those with such condition could include ssp be pay at an hourly rate , rather than a daily rate , to enable people to work half or part day on a gradual , phase return to work , or change the restriction on how people can claim and use SSP so that it be fair for people with fluctuate condition by extend eligibility timeframe . sadly , however , I suspect that the Labour party be look to slash welfare spending , as have be report today — 700 , 000 disabled people be push into poverty will be no joy to many — and that it have little interest in make such supportive and progressive change . I look forward to hear from the Minister . the Labour Government ' s lack of gumption in their approach to SSP be illustrative of the timidity of their approach in this Employment Rights Bill . yes , the Bill make improvement to the right of work people and , yes , it reverse some of the bad excess of the Tory Government , but it could have do so much more . where be the straightforward system define a single status of worker to replace the maze of confusing classification , design to limit protection , that continue to exist ? where be the increase provision for collective bargaining to alleviate low pay ? where have the promise disappear to of the right to switch off , which would ensure well work - life balance ? this be the opportunity to legislate to entrench employment right and to ensure a fair deal for worker and a healthy , more equitable and more productive economy and society . unfortunately , this Bill be leave want . I hope that , if the Labour party be serious about its manifesto commitment , the Minister will look at these new clause and amendment . I welcome the Report stage of this Bill . I proudly declare my membership of Unite and the Communication Workers Union and I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . this Bill will see the big upgrade to worker ' right for a generation . it be an agenda for change — change that be desperately need . working class people keep this country care for . they keep our street clean , our shelf stack and our public service run , but the imbalance of power in our workplace be plain to see . the P & O scandal be testament to that . this Bill represent a crucial first step in redress that imbalance , especially amendment 80 on sick pay . it strengthen both collective and individual right and put more money in the pocket of work people . I therefore welcome the Government ' s amendment to the Bill ensure that everyone get sick pay from the first day they be ill , include those previously exclude for earn too little . currently , around 1 . 2 million worker be exclude from statutory sick pay altogether , and the present three - day wait be extremely hard for those on low pay who often budget on a week - to - week basis . I and my husband be those people who live week to week and drag ourselves into work when we be not well , because if we do not work , we do not eat when my child be small . the fact that the Bill rectify that be extremely welcome . the pandemic expose just how inadequate current level of sick pay be . I therefore urge the Government to ensure that as many worker as possible benefit from the measure in the Bill . in particular , they should look at what they can do to increase the rate of statutory sick pay over time , as we currently have one of the low rate of sick pay across the develop country . I hope the Government continue to consider the impact of the removal of the low earning limit to ensure that everybody benefit from the measure in this Bill . overall , these change will be transformative for work people in my constituency . as a work - class woman from a council estate , it do my heart good to be able to stand in this place support change that will make the life of work people well and give they the reward they so deserve . I pay tribute to all the Members who serve on the Bill Committee for its 21 session . their job be make hard by the fact that this be rush legislation bring forward purely to spare the blush of the Deputy Prime Minister , who make promise to the trade union baron who fund her party . as a result , we see the large number of amendment that we be discuss today . it be also the case that while the Government have consult during the passage of the Bill , they do not appear to have listen to employer very much . hon . member should beware the unintended consequence of these measure and the Bill . turn to the amendment , give that the Government ' s apparent priority be growth , new clause 87 be an essential addition . many of the power in the Bill will be implement through regulation , which , clearly , the House , employer and employee do not have any detail of . the approach again show the rush nature of the legislation . commonly , throughout the passage of other Bills , the regulation would be pass in draft while the clause implement they be consider . that have not happen in this case , so it be therefore wholly sensible to require that when make regulation , Ministers must have regard to the international competitiveness of the economy . as hon . member know , the Government inherit the fast - grow economy in the G7 , but since then , what have happen ? their action and word have stop growth stone dead . as well as competitiveness , it be essential that the Government take into account economic growth in the medium and long term . my concern be that the Government be treat business like the mule in Buckaroo , load on more and more cost and obligation . anyone who have play the game will know that it be inevitable that there will be a reaction and the mule will buck . in economic term , that mean few job , high price and low wage . the Government ' s own impact assessment put the cost to business at £ 5 billion a year . that simply can not be absorb by company , so new clause 87 would offer some protection . many hon . member have speak about the extension of employment provision to day one , and I recognise that the extension of unfair dismissal be well intentione . however , the reality be that that increase the risk to employer of take people on . the Federation of Small Businesses have say that the " increase risk will inevitably deter small employer from take on new people , for fear of face an employment tribunal simply because a new recruit turn out to be unsuited to the role . " that be bad for people , job , investment and growth . new clause 86 would require the Secretary of State to assess the impact of extend the provision in clause 21 , with Parliament have to approve they . this parliamentary lock be about protect the chance that young people , ex - offender and people from other vulnerable group have to join the workforce , as otherwise firm might simply not take a chance on they . part - time work will be particularly hit by the Bill . those measure be on top of the Government ' s £ 25 billion a year job tax , which be make 750 , 000 job in the hospitality sector subject to employer national insurance for the first time — a £ 1 billion cost for that sector . those be the very type of flexible role that be well suited , as be mention early , to people on long - term sickness benefit who might be look to move back into the workplace , and the Bill undermine all of that . the third area I want to focus on be flexible working and the provision on guarantee hour , include new clause 28 table by the Government . again , it be worth listen to business leader , who have warn about the unintended consequence . the chief executive of Currys , for example , have say that guarantee hour measure will penalise young worker and " million of other who benefit from flexible hour , make such job less viable and business less competitive . " we do not need to be a retailer , or even an economist or lawyer , to know that store and leisure and hospitality business have season . that be particularly the case in my constituency . company have to plan to have the right size workforce at different time of the year , and these measure will damage that . it appear to be quite commonly overlook by Opposition Members that flexible working will still be available to people on fix - term contract . do the hon . Member agree that such contract can be use to manage seasonal fluctuation ? I be simply point to the word of the chief executive of Currys , which employ thousand of people across the country . I be not here to tell employer what form of contract to offer their staff , and I be not sure that it be the hon . Lady ' s job to do so either . however , the Bill will certainly remove flexibility . the Government be double down by extend that requirement to agency worker . flexible contract , which be value by staff — we have hear from other Conservative Members about their benefit — will be undermine by the Bill . a flexible labour market be an important part of secure a grow economy . the previous Government manage to achieve that while also extend employment right . as the Federation of Small Businesses and organisation that provide million of job have warn , the clear danger of the Bill be that it will make it hard to employ people by increase risk and cost . rather than strike the balance that the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , speak about , the Government have produce measure that , when take together — and on top of the Chancellor ' s tax - raise Budget and the near doubling of business rate for hospitality , retail and leisure business — create a significant cost and regulatory risk . that be why we oppose the Bill and the Government ' s action to hike taxis and increase regulation that will make we less competitive . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my trade union membership . for far too long , our economy have be stick in a low - growth , low - wage , low - aspiration situation . for far too long , we have allow some of the good employer and business in the country to be undercut by more unscrupulous employer that , as they be unable to compete through competitive advantage or productivity , do so only by level down working condition . that simply can not be right . we have hear in Committee , in the House and in headline over many year some heartbreaking example of the bad scandal that that have enable . truthfully , there be not a person in our society who be not lose out as a result of our failure to tackle this issue . opposition Members have comment on the pace at which the Government be move on that issue . we would not have to move at such a pace if they have do more . I wonder whether my hon . Friend agree with Julie Abraham , the ceo of Richer Sounds , who say : " happy colleague be likely to be more productive . this also lead to reduce stock loss and high staff retention , which in turn , minimise recruitment and training cost , not to mention disruption to establish team . " I could not have put it well myself . research be clear about the strong link between good working condition and good productivity , and the wide economic benefit that they bring . that be why I be grateful to everyone who have play their part , include the Minister and member of the Bill Committee — I have sympathy for those who have to endure some of the trope that we have hear today — in ensure that we have such a big and comprehensive package before we today . we be debate some strong amendment today . I will focus on new clause 32 in particular , as it affect a constituent who come to my surgery recently . the literature on the harm of zero - hour contract — their impact not just on productivity but on poverty and on worker ’ condition , health and mental health — be compelling , but if we do not acknowledge the human impact , we miss half the story . at my constituency surgery two week ago , I be join by a gentleman who have be work for four year on a zero - hour contract at Royal Mail . for four year , he have not know what hour he would be work week to week , month to month , year to year . for four year , he have not be able to plan his daily life — his other commitment , and the further education that he be try to do to build out his skill and well himself . for four year , his life have be narrow by the precarious reality of the exploitative application of zero - hour contract by those who should haven know well . for that reason , I be so glad that the Government commit in our manifesto and in the Bill , which be introduce some time ago now , to take on zero - hour contract and give people the right , where appropriate , to request a fix - hour contract . however , without new clause 32 , my constituent would have be miss out , because although he work at Royal Mail , he be employ through an agency . without the extension of protection in the new clause he would , like many other across the country , have lose out . I be very glad that we be be complete in our approach and ensure that we do not miss out from that important protection the very many employee who be currently work for agency . there be lot of other important amendment to the Bill . I be glad to hear such warm word from the Minister in his opening remark about the very important amendment table by my Bedfordshire neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . it be impossible to hear her testimony about bereavement or to speak to parent who have go through bereavement and not recognise the simple reality that to be bereave be not to be sick , and that our leave system should recognise it as such . I be very glad to hear from the Minister that the Government will work with my hon . friend and other across the House who have campaign on this issue for a long time to ensure we recognise that reality . there be a number of important measure in the Bill . I can do justice to very few of they in three minute , so I want to focus on just one : clause 14 , which be about ensure we remove some of the barrier to new dad take up paternity leave early on in their employment . it be a well - recognise fact that we have some of the bad paternity leave entitlement across Europe . although share parental leave sound great as a concept , we do not have to look far to notice that its uptake be shockingly low and shockingly skewed to the high earner . I be glad that we be take a small but important step in the Bill to recognise that we need to do more to boost access to paternity leave . the Government will be conduct a review of parental leave later this year , and I know that member across the House will be keen to engage with the Minister on how we can go far , not just in allow father to have that crucial early time with their child but in break down the very gendered nature of parenting , which be currently bake into our statutory provision on parental leave . there be so many important measure in the Bill and so many important area where we know we will need to go far . fundamentally , I be full of pride to see a government finally , after inaction by the Conservatives for far too long , take seriously the issue of workplace security , productivity and the wellbeing of people across the country in some of the most vulnerable form of employment . I be proud that this Government be stand up for my constituent and many people like he across the country , and I be proud to support the Bill today . in the last 30 year , I have work in business of every size in numerous sector , from consumer good to cyber - security and insurance to cloud infrastructure . I may not be a lawyer , but I feel well qualified to comment on this Bill . the Government need not take it from I ; if only they have listen to the business I have speak to . I be vice - chair of the Business and Trade Committee , and my fellow Committee member and I have spend many hour listen to evidence on the Bill from employer , trade union and industry group . our Select Committee tour the country at the end of last year , collate evidence and hearing from a wide range of sector . in my coastal constituency of Bognor Regis and Littlehampton , I have speak to numerous business , many of which be impact by the vagary of seasonal trade and inclement british weather . a consistent message emerge , from business at least , if not from the trade union : how can a Government who claim their primary focus be deliver growth be so tin - eare to the view and need of the very business , entrepreneur and employee who be fundamental to create that growth ? the Government have boast of deliver this Bill , which be telephone directory - thick , within their first 100 day . this be not sensible governance — indeed , the telephone directory of amendment be testament to that . one of the most damaging provision be the abolition of the two - year qualifying period for unfair dismissal under clause 21 , allow employee to question fail probation or a trial period in their contract . from day one , employee will be able to take their employer to court . our conservative amendment 287 seek to remove this clause entirely because it will disincentivise business from hire , as they will know they can not let an employee go even if it be not work out . the Government expect entrepreneur and business to take the risk necessary to drive growth . indeed , that be what they expect and want to do , but clause 21 add unnecessary risk and be likely to be to the detriment of jobseeker . it will far marginalise those who would already be consider risky candidate . the hon . Member and I both serve on the Business and Trade Committee . the statistic show that the vast majority of young people do not have two year ' service and therefore have no protection from US - style " fire at will " policy . in hospitality and catering , which be industry that the hon . Member have massive concern about , vast number have no protection from fire at will — overnight firing for no reason and with no process — and the Bill will outlaw that . I know that she support fair process and fair reason for firing , so I hope that she will support the Bill today . the hon . Member know that I will always support fair process , but the point I be make be that this clause will make it more difficult for employer to take on prison leaver , care leaver , candidate with a non - traditional cv , career changer , and young people who be just look for that first rung on the job ladder . those people will not be give a fair chance , as employer will see they as too risky , and I hope she will see the risk inherent in the clause . my hon . friend be make a powerful point . I use to be an employer . I be an entrepreneur for about 15 year , and we employ more than 1 , 000 people . do she agree that exactly those people who be a bit of a risk because they have something not quite right on their cv and be a high - risk hire , be the people who will not get job as a result of the Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for make that powerful point . anyone who have ever look for a job — member in the Chamber will probably count themselves as be among the well qualified of the population look for work — will know that most employer , of any kind , do not want to take a risk . if we make it even hard for they to employ people who be a risk at base point , it will not serve their purpose . the Government ' s own impact assessment suggest that the direct effect of the Bill will cost UK business an additional £ 5 billion annually . that estimate most likely understate the true cost , as it account only for administrative burden while ignore the broad impact on hire , business cost and strike action . key factor such as reduce hiring due to zero - hour contract limit , increase strike activity , and great liability from employment tribunal claim , as outline in the Bill , be dismiss as " too hard to calculate " , make those assessment highly questionable . that be why I support new clause 86 , which would require an impact assessment to be carry out for the measure in clause 21 . we table new clause 83 and amendment 283 to ensure that the Bill ' s provision on zero - hour worker would not come into force until a comprehensive review of the Bill ' s impact on employment tribunal have be assess and approve by Parliament . clause 18 place a new duty on employer to prevent third - party harassment . protect employee be unquestionably important , and no one should doubt the sincerity of Conservative Members about that . do the hon . member agree , as I do , that it be right that 1 . 3 million low earner who find themselves ill should receive statutory sick pay for the first time ? like she , I represent a coastal seat with a tourist sector , and as a consequence my constituency have a significant number of low earner . do she agree that we need to be back they ? I refer the hon . member first to my early comment about ensure that we do not disincentivise employer , and secondly to the flexibility that be need for both employer and employee . amendment 288 seek to exclude hospitality provider and sport venue from those provision , recognise the impracticality of hold employer accountable for every interaction in those environment . it be simply not practical to think that every publican , landlord and bar owner — small business owner — would be liable for any harassment that happen towards their employee in a pub , bar , nightclub or festival . amendment 285 would require an impact assessment to be carry out on clause 18 . of course business and business owner should embed good working practice and guideline to combat this abhorrent behaviour , but it be impractical and undesirable for the Government to legislate nationally for every sector and business . the hon . Lady will appreciate that there be a defence here if an employer have take all reasonable step . it be only reasonable step . I be sorry ; I think we have make enough progress . I urge the Government to reconsider , to withdraw the Bill and to work with business , union and worker to create a fair and balanced approach that prioritise the political interest — Order . I call Lee Barron . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have say it before , and I will say it again : due to the virtue of my last name , I be the only legitimate union Barron in this place , and I be absolutely proud of it . it be an honour to speak on this Bill again , and I commend this Government for bring it forward . we make a commitment to work people before the election , and we be follow that through . I welcome the Government ' s new clause on agency worker . in Corby we have more employment agency than any other town in Northamptonshire . we now see that those who work in agency job will receive fair treatment in pay , working hour and job security , which be to be welcome as we aim to create a well local economy for the people of Corby and East Northants . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . he and I be constituency neighbour . as he will know , there have be a lot of growth in Northamptonshire and increase distribution in the area , so the Government new clause will make a massive difference to our constituent . it will indeed . I thank my hon . friend for make that point so well . this Bill have be a huge move in term of sick pay , as far as the Government be concerned . it will bring 1 . 3 million people into get sick pay for the first time , and we need to welcome that . we might need to have a look at some point in the future to see if there have be a drag downwards in term of the people around the low earning limit , but we should certainly welcome this as a step in the right direction . this be not just about legislation : we must change the job market and the perception of work that some people have in modern Britain . there be still some people who do not recognise the value that work people bring . I have a meeting last week with the parcel delivery company Evri , which operate in all our constituency . it describe the employer - employee relationship as a " master - servant " relationship . I turn around and say that that kind of view of work people be absolutely date . Evri say that if it change the status of its worker , it would want its " pound of flesh " — its word , not mine . while we have those who treat and describe work people in such a way , we must bring in legislation to ensure that they can not treat people like that . work people be not servant , and they should be treat with the dignity and respect that they deserve . that be a fundamentally wrong , crass and outdated way to view employment in modern Britain , and as long as there be still those who think like that , we need to ensure that we change thing for the well , and this Bill go a long way towards do that . the question I often ask myself be this : why do those who want economic growth think that we make growth happen through insecure work , minimal wage rate and zero - hour contract , under which people do not know what they will earn in order to support their family from one week to the next ? work should not mean a lifetime trap in poverty ; it should be the route out of poverty , and this Bill be a step in the right direction to ensure that be what it become once again . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on modernise employment , and at our last meeting we hear from Zelda Perkins , of the can ' t Buy my silence campaign , about non - disclosure agreement . her testimony make it absolutely clear that more need to be do in that space , and if there be room to do so through this Bill , I urge the Government to accept the amendment that be describe early . the APPG look to the future of work and what good employment look like . at the end of the month , the APPG be go to look at good work , the new deal and this Bill . we will look at the full effect of this Bill to see how we can take forward its benefit and transfer they into the modern world of work . in the 21st century , modern employment should look like security of work , well - pay and with progression opportunity , in order to keep family out of poverty . this Bill go some way towards do that . in conclusion , I urge all member to support this Bill , which ban exploitative zero - hour contract . say that this will somehow stop flexible working be for the bird — it be not the case . we have flexible working long before we have zero - hour contract . we survive then , we can survive now , and we will survive into the future . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no . zero - hour contract be ban in Spain and in the Republic of Ireland — employer can not use they . do not tell I that those country do not have flexibility ; they have . we will survive in the future , as we survive in the past , without exploit work people , because country do not grow their economy by exploit work people . this Bill go some way towards stop that . the Bill ban exploitative zero - hour contract , increase protection from sexual harassment , introduce equality menopause action plan , strengthen right for pregnant worker , make flexible work the default , strengthen bereavement leave , improve pay and condition through fair pay agreement , provide day one protection against unfair dismissal , and establish the Fair Work Agency to make sure all employer be play by the same rule . the Bill will deliver the job for the future that will benefit work people in Corby and East Northamptonshire , and I be proud to support it . I will focus first on new clause 83 , table by the Opposition . the hon . member for Hamilton and Clyde Valley ( Imogen Walker ) — who I think I be just catch before she leave the Chamber — say that a fair day ' s work deserve a fair day ' s pay . the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) also say that we all agree that an honest day ' s work deserve an honest day ' s pay . a lot of today ' s speech have be focus on ban zero - hour contract , and the argument have be make that people deserve to know what their contract be , what they be go to be pay , and that they be go to be treat properly . one of the reason I think this Bill be rush and be fall down go back to a question I put to the Secretary of State when this Bill begin its passage through the House : why do it not cover unpaid internship ? look at this Bill , and with today ' s debate have focus so much on zero - hour contract , I find it difficult to understand why we would leave a whole section of society out of the Bill — people who can work for up to 12 month without any pay . ban unpaid internship have be in Labour manifesto after Labour manifesto . in every Parliament I have be a Member of , I have table a Bill to ban those internship . my Government do not want to do it , despite Prime Ministers make promise at the Dispatch Box when I first raise the issue , but there be member on the Government Benches who stand on manifesto that say they would ban unpaid internship . now we have this great Bill , which be trail in the general election and be be promote by the Labour party , yet there be nothing in it about unpaid internship . when the Bill go to the other place , that have to be look at , because such internship be wrong . we have hear a great deal today about opportunity for people , but what opportunity be there for people such as my sister and I , who have to work and earn a living to be able to do what we have go on to do ? we could not have spend 12 month work in London unpaid . the fact that a whole section of society can go unpaid be still not be address , and that fundamentally undermine what I be hear from Labour Members about what the Bill will do to create equality . I think that be wrong . the review of the impact on employment tribunal that be propose in new clause 83 need to be wide , and it need to be understand that if the aim be to create equality , it be not in fact be create . let I return to a point that I make to the Minister at the beginning of the debate . I be grateful for the answer that he give I then . the Bill contain clause about parental leave and bereavement leave — I pay tribute to the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) for her dedication to this subject ; it be very brave of she to bring her own experience to the House — but it do not deal with all the aspect of menstrual health , and I think that that will need to be address in the other place . Endometriosis be a crippling disease , as I say in my intervention , and last Thursday I be proud to host an event at which it be discuss . I do not think people realise just how debilitate it can be for people in the workplace , and it deserve the same attention as any other aspect of menstrual health — a strategy like the menopause strategy , for instance . this constitute a big hole in the Bill . I be try to take what the Government want to do at face value , but I think the Bill contain many flaw , which have be identify by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) and several other conservative Members . there be significant gap . the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , among other , refer to non - disclosure agreement , and I think that what she say illustrate some of the flaw in the provision relate to psychological and emotional abuse . she give the example of an incident involve someone who have be suffer at work and be make to apologise to the colleague who have witness the incident , and I think that that should be dig into a bit . why would that person have to apologise ? the colleague must have complain that the incident have be distress for they . the word " psychological and emotional abuse " could have unforeseen consequence — although that be not to say that I do not care . the hon . member for Corby and East Northamptonshire ( Lee Barron ) say many thing with which I could agree , but I ask Members please not to say that the Conservatives do not care about abuse in the workplace . do my right hon . friend think that some of the problem that he be identify be a result of the Bill ' s be rush through this Chamber ? I do , and I be try to make a serious point here . this be a big Bill , and it be one of the Government ' s flagship piece of policy . I hear someone say early , from a sedentary position , that we have 12 hour of debate , but that do not come up to the 21 day that we spend in Committee examine the Bill bit by bit . I agree with other member that it have be rush through for political purpose . the purpose of debate such as this be to explore the issue , and try to make a bill into a well piece of legislation . I be try to be constructive in explain where I see the flaw and in highlight the unforeseen consequence . it worry I when we see the no - platforming of people at university , and hear about trigger warning and people say that they feel emotionally put upon . that , I think , be an abuse of some of the protection that we be try to introduce , and I think there be people who will try to abuse this particular clause . what I be say to the Minister , and the Government , be , " can that wording be tighten up ? " it be always a pleasure to follow my constituency neighbour from the other side of the House , the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) . I really welcome the Bill , which need to be put in its historical context . with the exception of those pass under the last Labour Government , virtually every time we have see an employment right Bill or a trade union Bill in recent decade , it have be an attack on trade union right or worker ’ right , whereas this Bill make a real difference in advance the right of work people in this country . they have be kick around for too long , and it be right that we do not accept that it be fine for worker in this country to be some of the easy to sack and mistreat in the continent . worker in our country deserve well employment right , and this Bill set about put they in place . my hon . friend will have hear constantly , particularly in response to the P & o disaster , that the Conservatives be go to introduce an employment Bill when they be in government . do my hon . friend agree that they have criticise this government for do what they promise : to bring in this Bill within 100 day ? I certainly do . the previous Government never get round to introduce such a Bill . when the conservative party be in government , all we have about the P & O debacle be crocodile tear or statement of sorrow from the Dispatch Box , which just do not cut it . this Bill contain important advance , such as establish bereavement leave and introduce menopause action plan . over 1 million people on zero - hour contract will benefit from the guarantee hour policy , and 9 million people who have be with an employer for less than two year will benefit from the right to claim unfair dismissal from day one . it seem to escape the understanding of many conservative Members that this do not mean that employer can not dismiss people ; it mean that they can not dismiss people unfairly . the Conservatives be argue for the right of employer to dismiss people unfairly . as it stand , before this legislation come in , the only way that worker can claim unfair dismissal from day one be if it be a discriminatory dismissal . to be clear , an employer could , six month into someone ' s contract of employment , say , " I ' m sack you because I don ' t like people who wear green jumper , " or , " I ' m sack you because I find your voice irritate . " that would be unfair dismissal . as it stand , people do not have the right not to be unfairly dismiss until they have accrue two year of service , and the conservative party need to come clean about that . before I move on to my new clause 6 , I want to say that I welcome many of the Government amendment and the amendment table by Labour Back Benchers , include the many important amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) , who do such a good job at develop employment policy in opposition ; the important amendment on sick pay , table by my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) ; and the important amendment table by my hon . friend the Members for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) and for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . my new clause 6 would right what I consider to be a historical wrong . the last Labour Government bring in the groundbreaking Equality Act 2010 , which we can all be proud of . as part of that , they introduce statutory discrimination questionnaire . when I be an employment lawyer before become a Member of Parliament , I lose track of the number of time that we use statutory discrimination questionnaire to smoke out discrimination in the workplace in relation to age , disability , sex , race , sexual orientation , pregnancy and maternity , gender reassignment , religion or belief , and marriage and civil partnership . I bump into an old colleague who be a trade union lawyer on a train , and he make the point that statutory discrimination questionnaire also — [ interruption . ] I make no apology for have a friend who be a trade union lawyer — I think the Conservatives need to get out a bit more . he make the point that statutory discrimination questionnaire show when a claim do not have a good chance of succeed at an employment tribunal , help to manage potential claimant ’ expectation , and thus lead to an unmeritorious claim either not be pursue or be settle . such questionnaire help to smoke out discrimination in workplace , help not just the individual employee , but tackle discrimination against worker more widely in that workplace . the truth be that in 2025 , give some of the rhetoric from politician in this country and around the world , it be as important as ever to have mechanism in place to tackle discrimination in workplace across the country . that be part of the last Labour Government ' s pioneer Equality Act . shamefully , the Conservative Government abolish statutory Equality Act questionnaire in 2014 as part of their attack on worker ’ right . in their consultation , 83 % of respondent say it be wrong to remove this important mechanism for worker to unmask and tackle discrimination — 83 % — yet the Conservative party when in government , aid and abet by some of their erstwhile friend , plough ahead in any event . I table new clause 6 because this be an important opportunity for our new Labour Government to right the wrong do by that Conservative - lead Government and reinstate a very important advance make in the last Labour Government ' s Equality Act . I look forward with interest to hear the Minister ' s response . if he will not accept this amendment to the Bill , I invite he to come forward with a proposal to reintroduce statutory discrimination questionnaire as soon as possible . they make a real difference . they help to stop some claim go to tribunal that should not have go to tribunal , but , more importantly , they empower worker to smoke out discrimination in their workplace not only for their benefit , but for the benefit of their colleague in that workplace and for the benefit of wide society . we need that now in 2025 , and I look forward to the Minister ' s response . a great many very important employment - relate issue be be discuss , but I rise in support of new clause 16 . as it stand , self - employ people be not entitle to statutory adoption pay , which create a substantial economic barrier for prospective adopter . without this support , the selfless act of adoption be be make hard . new clause 16 would fix that . a constituent of mine , Kirsty , be a self - employ mother who discover this significant gap in the financial support system while explore the possibility of adoption . Kirsty and her husband have a son , Charlie , who be a bright - eyed four - year - old with an unshakeable love of train . he often talk about how much he want a little sibling to be his assistant train driver , and after a year of try to conceive a second child , Kirsty and her family decide that open their heart and their home to a child through adoption be the good option . however , one of Kirsty ' s close friend — also self - employ and in the process of adopt — inform she that she be not entitle to the same financial support through statutory adoption pay , throw her plan into doubt . unlike biological parent , who qualify for maternity allowance , or employ adopter , who be eligible for statutory adoption pay , self - employ adopter such as Kirsty fall into a financial support void . while statutory guidance allow local authority to make discretionary means - test payment equivalent to these allowance for the self - employ , such support be not guarantee , and local authority have no legal duty to provide it . in fact , a freedom of information request by the charity Home for Good have reveal that 34 % of local authority lack any policy for provide this financial support . even bad , 90 % of self - employ adopter , when they be survey by the all - party parliamentary group on adoption and permanence back in 2022 , report that their social worker never advise they about these discretionary payment and the possibility of receive they . adoption provide child with the opportunity to thrive in a permanent , love home , often complete a family , as I have have the great pleasure of see for myself in my role as a proud adopt auntie . I be confident in my belief that member across the House will agree that self - employ people be no less suited to adopt than anyone else . despite the increase in the number of child in care , the number of adoption in the UK have halve since its peak in 2015 , and this be completely unsustainable . the enormous and grow pressure that face our foster care system will only worsen if the number of adoption continue to decrease . as of December 2024 , there be 4 . 39 million self - employ people across the UK . if we begin remove the financial barrier and empower those who be self - employ through guarantee financial support for adoption , we could begin to reverse the worrying trend in the number of adoption . that would allow willing adopter such as Kirsty and her husband to be financially able to do so . the financial case for support adoptive parent be compelling . research by the Consortium of Voluntary Adoption Agencies UK show that in 2021 adoption save the economy £ 4 . 2 billion through improvement in child ' s health , education and employment prospect , compare to the outcome for child who remain in care or other placement . the CVAA also find that at least £ 1 . 3 million - worth of value be create when each child be adopt , underscore the societal and economic benefit of increase adoption number . I have raise the glare gap in the financial support system several time in recent month . I have raise it with Ministers in a very constructive debate in Westminster Hall and with the Leader of the House , who recommend I table an amendment to this Bill . the hon . member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) mention the upcoming review of parental leave , and I be sure the Minister will mention it in sum up , but I really encourage the Government to support new clause 16 to grant entitlement to statutory adoption pay to the self - employ . we should be remove any barrier to adoption so that brilliant potential parent can adopt and some of our most vulnerable child can join their forever family . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and my proud membership of USDAW and the GMB . it be an honour to serve on the Public Bill Committee for this historic piece of legislation . the Bill represent a watershed moment : a turning point for work people in our country who for too long have be leave behind in an economy plague by weak employment right , stagnant growth and the soar cost of living . the measure contain in the Bill represent a meaningful intervention in our broken labour market , look to promote good quality job that offer dignity , security and respect to work people . as someone with a proud background represent worker , I wholeheartedly support the Bill ' s spirit and provision . I believe it will meet labour ' s promise to deliver a new deal for work people — a new deal that will make work pay . whether it be ban exploitative zero - hour contract , end the scandal of fire and rehire , or protect employee from unfair dismissal from day one , the Bill will promote good secure employment and a workforce who finally feel value . it recognise trade union as the force for good in the workplace that they be , encourage positive , productive and harmonious partnership between company and union . the evidence we hear in Committee make it clear that many of the Bill ' s measure enjoy broad support from both employee and employer , such as the modernising of family friendly right to meet the need of today ' s worker , and the creation of the Fair Work Agency , which will protect good employer from be cynically undercut by unscrupulous competitor . let I now turn to statutory sick pay and Government amendment 81 . during the pandemic , it become clear that SSP be in desperate need of reform . I be therefore delighted that the Bill remove the three waiting day and the low earning limit , deliver great financial security to work people when they need it most . however , an issue remain . set the amount a low - pay worker receive while off sick at 80 % of their wage have the unintended consequence of reduce sick pay for those who earn at , or slightly above , the low earning limit . Low - pay , long - term sick worker will be the most affected . I believe that be an oversight , and contrary to the spirit of the legislation . I call on the Minister to close the gap . turn now to the right to a regular hour contract , the proliferation of one - side flexibility throughout the workforce have be one of the most damaging labour market development of the past 14 year . it have leave worker vulnerable to sudden change of income as their hour change from week to week . the right to a regular - hour contract be therefore one of the Bill ' s most important provision . however , limit that right to those on a specified number of hour , such as 16 hour a week , will unnecessarily exclude those above the threshold from benefit from the right , while give employer a perverse incentive to give additional hour , when available , to those who already have more hour . I raise these point not to be critical , but because I believe that we have in front of we a magnificent piece of legislation — one that be testament to the power of collaboration and consultation — and I want as many people as possible to benefit from it . job be the cornerstone of our life . the Bill take giant stride forward , ensure that people be fulfil by their job , protect while at work and take home enough to make end meet . it restore a fair balance of power between employer and employee . it be good for worker , good for productivity and good for growth , and be therefore good for business , too . I suggest to the House that anyone serious about fairness at work and increase living standard should support it . the hon . Gentleman talk about the Bill be good for growth , but be he concern that the Government ' s own assessment say it will cost business £ 5 billion ? do he have any concern at all about the downward impact on growth of that cost ? I think that a Bill that promote good , secure work across the economy be something we should not shy away from . I believe , if I be correct , that the figure reference represent 0 . 5 % of the cost of business , so no — I be not concerned . I would like to finish in a slightly odd place . Benjamin Disraeli believe that his government ' s active role in pass legislation that benefit the work person would " gain and retain for the Conservatives the last affection of the work class " — clearly he fail in that endeavour . one nation Tories be now a vanishingly scarce presence on the Opposition Benches . I ask all hon . member on those Benches , with their opposition to this Bill : when do the Conservatives give up even try to be on the side of work people ? if growth be the intended destination , as my friend in Dublin would say , " you can ' t get there from here " . this Bill — so long on amendment and so short on detail — can not be reconcile with this Government ' s state mantra of growth , growth , growth . by their own estimate , the Bill will cost business £ 5 billion — so easily dismiss by the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) , despite be a serious amount of money . the only growth will be in the mountain of red tape in which the Bill will snare business . I rise to speak in favour of new clause 87 , which would require the Secretary of State to have regard to the objective of the " international competitiveness of the economy " and its growth in the medium to long term . the Secretary of State for Business must surely recognise the importance of this — after all , I see he just day ago in a slick video , with cut quick than the shower scene in Hitchcock ' s " Psycho " , boast of " work together abroad to deliver growth at home " . now , I love a fantasy film as much as anyone , but the Secretary of State be in danger of jump the shark with this level of sophistry and stretch credulity beyond snap point . growth at home be feeble , and this Bill be its enemy . so lack in detail be this Bill , which be clearly scrabble together to beat the Government ' s own deadline of the first 100 day , that it be the equivalent of a parliamentary blank cheque — sign here , and we will fill in all those pesky detail later — hand sweeping power to the Secretary of State . we be be ask to walk into a cage without a key . I have see this before with the SNP ' s woeful prospectus for scottish independence in 2014 . scot be bright enough then to see through the smokescreen . will Members across the House be sharp enough to discern the danger here ? do my hon . friend agree that it be quite clear that the Government do not do the work need to get the Bill into the right place and position to be introduce to this House in the first place ? that be exemplified in Committee , with the amount of drafting that have to be do at that stage . the Bill should have be stop by the parliamentary business and legislation committee ; it should never have be allow to get to the Floor of the House . I completely agree with my right hon . friend . he be a very experienced parliamentarian and know full well that to arrive at this stage with , as we have hear from other member , a telephone directory of amendment be quite an incredible situation . how could any self - respect Secretary of State for Business and Trade stand over the anti - growth regulation contain in — but not confine to — part 1 , 2 and 4 of this Bill ? even a trainee solicitor can see that they strip out flexibility for both employee and employer , make it less likely that people — especially young people and people with sketchy background — will be hire for that all - important first job . whither your employee right if you have no job ? as someone who bend his elbow , I be familiar with the occasionally coarse atmosphere in pub . my daughter take a part - time job in a bar while study at university , but I see nothing useful for she in the Bill ' s bid to make employer liable for third - party harassment . it be why I also support our amendment to exclude the hospitality sector from this onerous clause . aside from the fact that my daughter be well capable of deal with the rare rude , sexist or obstreperous client under exist law , clause 18 risk the Bill become a snooper ' s charter — a busybody ' s dream . if our amendment 289 fall , the public bar will no long be the cockpit of free speech , but place in the purview of the censorious , and the malicious gauleiter of orthodoxy . Set as we be in a sea of trouble amid global turmoil , be labour really so afraid of off - colour joke , or the bar stool crank with outr é political view , that it will establish the banter police ? one of my criticism of the Holyrood Parliament in Edinburgh be that it pass " never mind the quality , feel the width " legislation in a bid for self - justification . with this Bill , that accusation could rightly be level at this government , too . I will be proud to see this Bill progress through Parliament and to develop accordingly . that be what the amendment before we offer we the chance to do . may I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , who be no long in her place , and the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for the work that they be do ? in the short time available to I , I wish to speak to new clause 7 , which reflect a manifesto commitment make by the Labour party that say explicitly that the current parental leave system do not support work family . million of people across this country will recognise that that be the case . new clause 7 be about put meat on the bone of that commitment , because it be long overdue . we be behind the curve in this country in how we treat dad . I wish to thank everybody who have sign this amendment , because it send the message that we care about our father in this country . we have the bad paternity leave in the EU , as my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) , who be no long in his place , point out . two week be just enough time for the dad to realise that the meconium be go to stop and that they might eventually get three hour ' sleep at some point . let we see how our economic competitor treat dad well . dad get 16 month in Sweden , eight month for each parent and three month protect for the dad . in France , Spain , Norway and Luxembourg , dad get at least six week . in Japan , they get a year . why do they do that ? it be because dad make a difference . yes , this Bill would give they a day one right to paternity leave , but only two week . one in five dad — 35 % of they — in this country do not take any leave at all , because they can not afford to do so . they need a pay and protect right of itself to benefit from paternity leave . it benefit they and it benefit their kid . it be well for the mental health of the father . it mean that they take few sick day — there be evidence to prove that — and it be good for the kid . it be also good for the mum . we need to end the battle of the sex when it come to childcare , because research show that woman really can not win . even when we do not have kid , we pay the price because of maternity discrimination . we all know of employer who do not employ woman in their 20 and 30 because of the risk that lady do baby . the challenge with this legislation , which rightfully strengthen maternity discrimination power , be that it could inadvertently reinforce that message if we do not bring forward legislation to support father . [ interruption . ] I be glad Conservative Members support what I be say . I wish they would vote with we on this tonight . the gender pay gap do exist in this country , but it be basically a maternity pay gap , because the motherhood penalty be all too real . by the time of their first child , a woman ' s wage be a third below a man ' s within 20 month . member might say that that be to do with work part - time , but that be even when woman return to the front . one in nine mum have be dismiss , make redundant or force out . woman be consider 10 % less competent in the workplace when they become mum , as if juggle thing make they less able to do thing rather than more . childless woman be eight time more likely to be promote . conversely , dad be consider 5 % more committed than non - dad because we expect they to be in work , pay for their child rather than help to look after they . I want to deal not in caricature but in cold , hard cash . above all , support paternity leave in its own right , and leave for the other parent in relationship , be good for the economy . it help boost woman ' s participation and productivity . country with well pay parental leave have a small gender participation gap in their economy , with all the economic benefit that that bring . close that gap could bring £ 23 billion into our economy — 1 % of gdp . the hon . Member be talk about the benefit of her new clause to father , but do she accept that the effect of the Bill will be negative and harmful to everyone and to the economy , by strip £ 5 billion away from business ? it be no good that her new clause would be helpful for father if the net effect of the Bill be bad for everyone , through the damage do to the economy . I wish that the hon . Gentleman have be listen , because I just point out that deal with the gender pay gap would bring £ 23 billion to our economy . that be exactly how we pay for well parental leave — it be a cost - neutral proposal . a newsflash for those who have not work it out : mother be already pay for this childcare in their low wage , opportunity and progression . woman ' s salary be hit by 33 % after the birth of their first child . woman be do 450 million hour of unpaid childcare in this country , which equate to £ 382 billion worth of work — twice as much as man . a consultation could explicitly look into these issue and at how we can share that cost and benefit fairly , so that both man and woman can contribute equally to our society and look after their child equally . it could look explicitly at self - employ parent . after all , there be nearly a million self - employ dad in this country , who pay £ 1 . 1 billion in national insurance contribution . they do not get any parental leave at all . we know that share parental leave be not the answer . only 2 % of dad have take it in the 10 year that it have be available , because it be not pay . that be why we must be explicit that any consultation must look at the pay that need to be behind parental leave , as well as at protect it . those on the low income do not take share parental leave at all . more shared parental leave have be claim in London alone than in Wales , Scotland , the north - west and the north - east combine . above all , this be about our kid . God know , we love they all dearly , but we can all understand why 20 % of divorce take place in the first five year after have a child : because of the unequal situation that we put family in and the pressure that that create — the mum and dad guilt . we have a choice in this place about whether we deal with mum and dad guilt , with the Government make a proper commitment with a proper timetable , and with proper involvement from Parliament and the Women and Equalities Committee . to all those who will say , " well , I struggle , and so should you , " I say that that be bad for the economy and bad for our kid . it mean that father do not get the time to work out the quirk of their child , so mum end up be the one who know how to cut the sandwich . it mean that mum end up do more of the childcare and dad get push far away from their child . if this government be serious about support family — I believe that they be — they need to show we the detail . that way , in every family , which come in all shape and size , every parent — whether the father , the non - birth parent or the mother — will have the time to be the good parent and contributor . that be why these policy be massively popular with conservative and reform voter — if only the Reform mp be here to do something for man for a change . this long overdue change will make a difference . I hope that minister be listen to why it matter to show a commitment to this , and I look forward to hear to what they have to say in response to the new clause . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that the King have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Act 2025 Crown Estate Act 2025 . Employment Rights Bill Debate resume . it be always a pleasure to follow the King . [ laughter . ] I rise on behalf of my constituent in Farnham , Bordon , Haslemere and Liphook who be oppose to this fundamentally anti - business Bill . nothing have highlight more clearly than this debate the old adage that where we think the Labour party be wrong , it think that we be evil . nothing that have come from Labour Members have give any consideration to the absolutely correct concern that the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , raise in his opening remark . the Bill , which have be bodge both in Committee and today , have be put together simply to assuage the union paymaster that fund so many Labour Members . the Bill highlight Labour ' s complete misunderstanding of how to help business , employee and , of course , the economy overall . we have a Government who talk about growth but legislate to destroy it . the Government claim to be pro - growth and pro - business , yet the Bill be precisely the opposite . the Institute of Directors have warn that it will lead to slow growth , deter investment and bury business under an avalanche of unnecessary regulation . even the Government ' s own impact assessment , which Opposition member have mention on a number of occasion , concede that business will face a staggering £ 5 billion in additional cost : an economic straitjacket that will choke innovation and job creation . Labour Members seem to have fail to realise that be pro - business , as the Conservatives be , be be pro - worker , because if business do not exist there will be no one to employ worker . in my constituency alone we have over 5 , 000 business , the vast majority of which be small and medium - sized enterprise . many of they operate in the education , retail and hospitality sector , which rely on flexibility to survive , yet the Bill ' s attack on zero - hour contract threaten to wipe out opportunity for student , part - time worker and those juggle multiple job to make end meet . among the 5 , 000 small business in my hon . friend ' s constituency , have my hon . friend come across one that be in favour of the Bill or lobby he to vote for it ? my hon . friend make a good point . I be happy for the Minister to come to Farnham and Bordon — or Haslemere , Liphook or any other of my village — to meet all the people who tell I what a damaging effect the Bill will have on their small business . as my hon . Friend point out , the simple fact be that the Government have not consult small business properly . if they have , the Bill would be scrap . I think of the University for the Creative Arts student who rely on flexible work and the NHS paramedic in Farnham pick up extra shift at the Nelson Arms , as I mention early . those be real people whose livelihood be at risk because of the Bill . that be why I support new clause 83 and amendment 283 on zero - hour contract and employment tribunal . ukhospitality have be clear that for 90 % of worker on zero - hour contract , that be their preference . the sector rely on these contract to manage fluctuate demand , and remove that flexibility could devastate those business and lead to job loss . there be no job security for those who do not have a job . the House of Commons Library briefing actually support that , confirm that zero - hour contract provide essential flexibility for both employer and , most importantly , employee . that be why I support new clause 83 and amendment 283 , which would demand a review of the impact on employment tribunal of the provision concern zero - hour worker before the Government recklessly legislate against they . the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development have already make it clear that ban zero - hour contract will hurt the very worker the Government pretend to protect . but yet again , Ministers plough ahead , blind to the economic damage that they be about to unleash . I turn to amendment 286 and new clause 86 on unfair dismissal and business confidence . the Government ' s proposal to grant employee the right to claim unfair dismissal from day one be another reckless intervention , and one that be raise with I by small business day in , day out . the amendment and new clause seek to introduce an impact assessment before clause 21 and schedule 2 come into force . without that , we have to be clear that business will be discourage from hire in the first place . flexibility in employment be not one - sided ; it benefit both worker and their employer . similarly , the right to request flexible working must be assess properly . new clause 84 and amendment 284 rightly demand that the Secretary of State assess the impact of clause 7 before it come into force . rush policymaking will not help worker or business ; it will create uncertainty and drive investment away . that be why it be essential that we accept new clause 87 in the name of the shadow Secretary of State , because we need an impact assessment of how the Bill will affect business . Madam Deputy Speaker , I fear the clock may not have start for my speech , so I will draw to a close . [ hon . member : " more ! More ! " ] in that case , I shall carry on ! no , no ; I be conscious of my hon . friend who wish to speak . this Government seem to have learn nothing from history . we have hear history lesson from Government Members , most of which have seem to take we back to the 1970 . economic success do not come from shackle business with red tape or give trade union unchecked power . it come from foster an environment where employer can hire , invest and grow . I be proud to declare my membership of Unite the union and the NASUWT , and I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . before I be elect , I be a teacher for 20 year . today , as we welcome this transformative legislation , I think of my former student . their life will be significantly improve by well wage , strong worker ’ right and a fairer economy . I welcome the Bill , which will drastically limit the exploitative use of fire and rehire . just outside my constituency , but affect many of my constituent directly , more than 500 Oscar Meyer worker be strike against the company ' s appalling use of the practice . by create a new right to claim automatic unfair dismissal if someone be reemploye on varied term to carry out the same duty , the Bill take a vital step towards dignify employee with security and autonomy . my hon . friend be give one of his trademark passionate speech . do he agree with I , as a former teacher myself , that remove fire and rehire will give the young people that he use to teach the confidence that when they go into the workplace , they will look at career and not just job ? I wholeheartedly agree with everything my hon . friend have say . I be also pleased to see Government new clause 34 encourage great employer compliance and increase compensation for worker subject to fire and rehire by raise the maximum period of the protective award from 90 to 180 day . amendment 329 , table in my name , seek to far protect against that harmful practice , ensure that any clause in an employment contract that allow an employer to change the term without the employee ' s consent would be unenforceable , especially in case of unfair dismissal relate to a refusal to accept change . that would far help redistribute the power imbalance between employer and employee , which currently allow low wage and poor working condition to become commonplace . the Bill also take crucial step towards ban exploitative zero - hour contract , ensure that all worker have predictable hour and offer security for their day - to - day life . I be pleased to see amendment extend such protection to agency worker . we have all feel the effect of a system that have leave so many behind : flatline wage , insecure work and fall living standard . it be therefore not just my former pupil but million across the country who will benefit from the big upgrade to right at work in a generation . I be proud to support our Labour Government in this historic step towards well quality employment across the country , and I look forward to the full delivery of the plan to make work pay . Diolch yn fawr . I rise to speak in support of new clause 10 , which would make car ' s leave a pay right . we have an opportunity to give carer in employment a fair deal right across the country , while also bolster our economy . the Government have an opportunity to build on the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , and take the next step in provide work carer with the flexibility they need to juggle work and care . carer UK estimate that the value to the economy of carer be able to work be £ 5 . 3 billion . when I have meet major blue - chip employer such as Centrica and HSBC , and their employee who have benefit from those corporation ' carer policy , they be clear that have those policy in place to support caring be not only good for the employee , but make they well employee for the employer . the employer really benefit from have member of staff who support they and be also able to do the good for their family . back our Liberal Democrat amendment to make carer ' s leave a pay entitlement would be the right thing to do on a human level and would also support the Government ' s growth agenda . for a Government on a mission to spend less while also deliver growth and well living standard , this be a no - brainer . we must do everything we can to help those carer who can and want to work to do so . currently , the Government have simply indicate that they will review the implementation of carer ' s leave and consider whether there be a need to change the current approach . I say to the Government in the strong possible term that change be need and the time be now . the 2 . 8 million people who juggle a job and caring responsibility be go above and beyond to care for those they love while also contribute to our economy . many of they be on low income , they be often woman , and they can not afford to use their right to carer ' s leave unless it become a pay right . we must acknowledge their work with a fair deal for they . I know that this be something the carer in my constituency deserve . they deserve well . we must be adaptable to the change need of our population while also see the benefit . this really can be a win - win . my liberal Democrat colleague and I be also push for an amendment to make care a protect characteristic . when people apply for job , equality monitoring form do not ask they whether they have unpaid caring responsibility . there be also no direct requirement for simple , reasonable adjustment for carer in the workplace . I feel that this would make all the difference , encourage those who might otherwise leave employment to stay , make our economy more resilient and protect their own family ' finance . we know that be a carer make people much more likely to fall into poverty . carer UK ' s research also tell we that almost half of all those who leave employment early to fulfil a caring responsibility say that they would have stay in employment long , have carer ' s leave on a pay basis exist . it seem clear that pay carer ' s leave help carer and those they care for , and it be good for our economy . I hope the Government can see that with the same clarity and do the right thing in support these vital liberal Democrat amendment . I need to highlight to the House that I be a member of the Community and USDAW trade union , and I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I would like to speak to various bit of this legislation today . there be so much in it , and I know that so many of we on the Government back Benches be really pleased with what we be bring forward . the first part of the legislation that I want to address be clause 22 , which will bring forward in future legislation more protection for woman who be pregnant , on maternity leave and in the period immediately follow their maternity leave . I have spend the past 13 year represent large number of woman who be either make redundant while pregnant , on maternity leave or try to come back from maternity leave , or whose employer suddenly wake up one morning and decide that they be underperform , often within 24 hour of their announce their pregnancy . I have a client who have be headhunte and bring into the company , be totally stellar , do incredibly well and get promote , but then announce her pregnancy and within a week she be on a performance plan . hr explain to she that because they be , you know , kind and do not want to do that to she while she be pregnant , they be very generously offer she a settlement agreement so that she do not have to go through that . lot of perfectly decent people do not understand why they be lose their job , and it be because they be pregnant . Pregnant then Screwed find that 12 . 3 % of woman who have have a baby have either be sack , constructively dismiss or make redundant while pregnant , on maternity leave or within a year of their maternity leave end . it be a widespread problem , so it be fantastic that the Bill contain clause 22 , which will allow the Minister to bring forward step to expand the available protection . I would like to know how quickly we can do that , because pregnant woman out there need that protection literally today . my hon . friend , who have great expertise in this area , be make an eloquent speech . do she agree that dismissal of pregnant woman or new mother be dramatically under - report because of the use of non - disclosure agreement in a lot of company while they be take action against they ? I could talk about nda at some length , but I do not have time to today . they be definitely problematic , and they be definitely conceal the extent of the problem that woman suffer when they announce their pregnancy . the second element I like in the legislation be the improvement to the right to request flexible working . those on the Conservative Benches have question why we would do this . the answer be that the term " part - timer " be still a term of abuse in this country . while that be still something that people say fairly regularly within workplace and popular parlance , we still have a problem , so this legislation should help to improve that . conservative Members have talk a lot about clause 17 and the third - party harassment element , and it be worth get into some of the detail . the defence for an employer for fail to protect their staff from third - party harassment be take all reasonable step to prevent that harassment from occur . employment tribunal have be interpret the meaning of " reasonable " for a long time , and in a discrimination claim there be essentially a three - part judiciary : a judge with legal experience , someone with employer experience , and someone with employee experience — sometimes from a trade union , but sometimes from elsewhere . when they talk about " all reasonable step " , it be only reasonable step ; it be not every single step in the entire history of the universe that anyone could ever dream up or imagine . the hon . Member be speak powerfully . do she agree that this amendment be be use by the conservative party to condone something offensive and despicable , and that they be try to defend the indefensible ? I completely and utterly agree with the hon . member . actually , a lot of what be come from Conservative Members be scaremongere . a lot of those discuss this behave as if employee with unfair dismissal right be unexploded bomb . all the people I represent do not want to bring tribunal claim ; they just want to have be treat fairly and reasonably in the first place . they be typically extremely destress by their experience , and for quite a lot of they , their mental health have deteriorate substantially in the course of what they have go through . I do not think that when people have unfair dismissal right a little bit soon , they will all be rush to employment tribunal the moment that something go slightly wrong in their workplace . what most people want to do every morning be get up , go to work , do a decent job , get pay for it and go home . that be what we will continue to see after this legislation pass : that most employer want to look after their employee perfectly reasonably , and most employee want to do a perfectly decent job . I have be rather unsuccessful this afternoon in find someone on the Government Benches who have concern about the £ 5 billion cost to business that this Bill will bring . will the hon . member express concern over the £ 5 billion cost and the downward pressure on growth that this Bill bring , accord to the Government ' s own assessment ? my primary concern be that those on the conservative Benches talk about employee as if they be , as I say , unexploded bomb , and they talk about employer as if they be unlikely ever to recruit anyone ever again , and I just do not believe that to be true . Most employer will make a sensible assessment of whether have an additional member of staff will benefit their business and then they will recruit they . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you . it be really important that we cut through the disinformation and scaremongere , and that when we take the legislation forward , ACAS have good information ready to go . it already have great information online — I encourage employer who be worried to look up acas information video on YouTube and look at its factsheet . we must make it clear to people that they have access to source of free advice , which be important for small business , so that they can see what be and be not require of they . the position be state today be bluntly exaggerated and quite damaging as a result . I rise to speak in favour of my new clause 105 . the labour abuse that it seek to address be the wrongful use of substitution clause by gig economy worker . to guarantee fairness and justice in the labour market , it be crucial that there be transparency , which can be deliver through the introduction of a comprehensive register of all dependent contractor . that will help to ensure that employment right be uphold and pay be not suppress through illegitimate competition , but it will also support the enforcement of right - to - work check . the unlawful employment of migrant with no right to work here be not good for taxpayer , british worker or migrant who follow the rule , yet substitution clause allow what have become know as " Deliveroo visa " — the industrial scale abuse of our immigration and labour law . before address the substance of my new clause , I also commend new clause 30 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , which I have sponsor . it would give special constable the right to take time off to carry out their police duty . other public service volunteer , such as magistrate and councillor , receive that right . I turn to my new clause 105 . minister have say that they will consult on employment status and move towards a two - part legal framework that identify people who be genuinely self - employ . I support that ambition , and I be grateful to the Minister for his warm word in Committee , but my new clause provide a way to resolve a particular abuse and hold big employer in the gig economy to account . there be 4 . 7 million gig economy worker in the UK , include 120 , 000 official rider at Uber Eats and Deliveroo , two of the large delivery company in the country . for year we have hear story of the rampant labour market fraud and visa abuse commit by contractor relate to those company . from late 2018 to early 2019 , there be 14 , 000 fraudulent Uber journey , accord to Transport for London . in addition to Uber and Deliveroo , Amazon and just eat have be link to labour market abuse . much of that abuse have come through the legal loophole create by substitution clause . Amazon tell its courier that it be their " responsibility to pay your substitute … at any rate you agree with they " and " you must ensure that any substitute … have the right to work in the UK " . it be a dereliction of duty to pass responsibility for compliance with criminal and right - to - work check on to worker , but those company clearly have an interest in maintain a status quo in which undocumented migrant take the low fee in delivery app . datum from the Rodeo app show the effect of that abuse on rider ' order fee . just eat rider see their fee drop by 14 . 4 % , from £ 6 . 53 in 2021 to £ 5 . 59 in 2023 . there be a 3 . 4 % drop for Uber Eats order fee — from £ 4 . 36 to £ 4 . 21 — during the same period . Deliveroo have block its order fee datum from be publish . those figure be not adjust for inflation , but it be clear to see how pay and condition have worsen for rider . by undercut domestic worker — british worker — and exploit those with no legal right to be here , company be privatise profit and socialise cost . promise from such company to introduce tough security check have not make the problem go away . we should all be appal by this state of affair , because nobody should be above the law . during random check two year ago , the Home Office find that two in five delivery rider who be stop be work illegally . in the same month , 60 rider from Uber Eats , Deliveroo and just eat be arrest in London for immigration offence , include work illegally and hold false documentation . last month , Deliveroo sack more than 100 rider who share their account with illegal migrant . but that be only the tip of the iceberg : insurance company report unauthorised rider involve in motor and personal injury case . that be happen because undocumented migrant be rent rider account for between £ 70 and £ 100 a week . profile have be buy for as much as £ 5 , 000 . the i Paper find more than 100 , 000 people on Facebook group where identity have be trade for year , include one group that gain around 28 , 000 member in less than 18 month . illegal migrant be use social medium app to rent account and share information on a significant scale . today , we only have figure from press investigation , but we can find copious example across the internet with ease . legal worker have report problem to the police and the Home Office , but that have fuel tension as they compete for order and have even lead to violent clash between legal and illegal rider in Brighton and London , include physical beating and damage to bike . People work illegally for these big company be work long hour round the clock for low fee , never know when their last payday might be . they use group chat to share information and evade Home Office immigration raid . we do not even know how many substitute rider there be for these company at any give time . a spokesman for the App Drivers and Couriers Union say : " unfortunately there be this loophole that allow some bad people to come through . they be not vet so they could do anything . " obviously , my hon . friend hope that the Government will support his new clause . what do he think would stop the Government support this very sensible measure straightaway ? I do not see why the Government should not support this new clause . this seem to be an obvious example of labour market abuse , but the difference with many of the provision in the Bill be that my new clause do not directly benefit trade union who pay for the Labour party . sadly , we know that there have be many sexual assault and attack commit by substitute worker . new clause 105 propose the robust regulation of substitution clause . Amazon , Uber , Deliveroo and the rest would have to do their due diligence and , just like everyone else , ensure that all their rider be who they say they be and have the right to work in this country . introduce such a change would reduce labour abuse , protect our community and deliver a fairer labour market . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . just to inflame matter more , I be the chair of the RMT parliamentary group as well . next Monday be the third anniversary of the P & o scandal . member might recall what happen : 800 member of staff — RMT member , largely — turn up for work and be sack by video . many of they be marshal off their vessel by train bouncer and guard who deal with they roughly . the reaction across the House and across society be that this be repellent and should not happen in a civilised society . the Labour party then make a commitment that it would introduce legislation that would install in law the seafarer ’ charter , and that be exactly what the Bill do , so I welcome it wholeheartedly and congratulate the Minister on do this . but as he can guess , we see this as just the first step , because there be so much more to do , particularly in this sector , where many worker be still exploit compare with shore - base worker . government new clause 34 extend the maximum period of the protective award from 90 day to 180 day . we be look for an uncapped award , to be frank , because P & O build into the pricing the amount it would be fine as a result of its unlawful behaviour , so that do not matter to P & o — it simply price that in . in addition , we be look for injunctive relief , and I thank the Government for enter into discussion about that . many employer can get injunctive relief on the tiny error by a union in ballot procedure , but worker can not . we be ask for a level playing field . we hope that an amendment would be table to the Bill today , but it have not be . we hope the Government will enter into those discussion and go far . I wonder whether my right hon . friend recall the evidence of Peter Hebblethwaite , the chief executive of P & O Ferries , to the Business and Trade Committee . he make it clear that he deliberately break the law and have no regard for it . be my right hon . friend as horrify as I be to see that in this House , and as disappoint at the lack of response from the conservative party ? I think that across the House it take a long while to recover from the anger at the behaviour that be display in front of the Select Committee . the chief executive be act with impunity because he have be able to price in those sort of fine , and it be a cross - party view that we be angry about that behaviour . that be why the charter be so important to we , and why injunctive relief that be open to trade union would provide an adequate starting point for get some form of justice . a range of other issue need to be address , include schedule 4 , where the Government be introduce the ability to monitor the behaviour of company . harbourmaster monitor some of that behaviour as well , with declaration that company be abide by basic health and safety practice — some practice in the past have be frankly terrifying . we want health and safety to be about more than just basic legislation ; it be also about roster and how long people be work . we still have ferry contract where people be work for 17 week without a break . we want to ensure that the regulation cover roster , as well as holiday pay , sick pay , pension and rating training , so that we can start to get some form of accountability within the sector . that be not much to ask for , yet we have give shipping owner £ 3 billion of tonnage tax exemption in return for the employment of british seafarer , and I do not think we get a single job as a result of that £ 3 billion . there be a need for proper regulation of the sector . I table an amendment to ask the Government to stand back once a year and bring a report to the House on how implementation of the Bill be go , and to update we on the implication for maritime law and International Labour Organisation convention , and the impact on the sector . a lot of debate on this issue have be about ferry , but we want to ensure that the provision apply to all vessel , not just ferry . one point make by those on the Labour Front Bench when consider the Seafarers ' Wages Bill be that if a ship come into a harbour 52 time a year , the legislation would apply . now — I do not know why — that have be extend to 120 time year , which mean that thousand of worker will lose out because the measure will not apply to they . will the Government have another conversation about that and see whether we can revert to the original position of the Labour party all those year ago when these scandal happen ? there be not much time but , briefly , I be interested in the extension of sectoral collective bargaining right across the economy . we be do it with social care , but what I have see from proposal in the Bill do not look like sectoral collective bargaining to I ; it look simply like an extension of pay review body . indeed , the Bill state that any agreement within those organisation can not legally be accept as collective bargaining . the Bill be not clear about how member of the negotiate body be appoint or by who . we be expect that it would be 50 % employer and 50 % trade union , and I table an amendment to try to secure that . we think that the negotiate body should elect its own chair , not that the chair should be appoint by the Secretary of State . we want such body to be independent and successful , because I see that as the first step in roll out sectoral collective bargaining in many other sector of our economy . that be desperately need because of the lack of trade union right and the low pay that exist . the Bill be a good first step , but there be a long agenda to go through . I look forward not just to the Bill proceeding , but to the Minister bring forward an Employment Rights ( no . 2 ) bill in the next 18 month . I rise to speak in support of new clause 74 , which appear in the name of the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) . I pay tribute to she and to my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) who have campaign on these issue for a long time . new clause 74 seek to ban non - disclosure agreement that prevent worker from make a disclosure about harassment , include sexual harassment — we have talk about sexual harassment in the workplace for the last four or five hour . nda be initially design to protect trade secret by restrict the sharing of certain information , but in recent time they have take on an entirely different and quite sinister role . they have essentially become the default solution for organisation and individual to settle case of misconduct , discrimination and harassment , keep the extent of such incident unaccounte for . incorporate clear provision to ensure transparency in case of harassment would strengthen protection for all worker . datum from can ' t Buy my Silence have reveal some deeply worrying statistic about the misuse of nda . in a survey of more than 1 , 000 people who experience harassment and discrimination in the workplace , 25 % report be force to sign an NDA , while an additional 11 % state that they could not say due to legal reason , imply that they have also sign an NDA . four time as many woman as man sign nda , and they be use disproportionately against woman of colour . in Committee , the Minister say that the Government have " reservation " about change the law in this way , as there may be " unintended consequence " . I struggle to understand why the Government have commit to ban university from use nda in case of sexual misconduct , harassment and bullying but have not commit to extend those protection to other sector . nda be clearly be use in a totally different way to what they be design to achieve , and we must stop this before more victim be silence . I hear the Minister say early that he be at least look at what new clause 74 be try to achieve . despite my concern about the misuse of nda , the Bill as a whole have many very positive provision . importantly , it finally legislate to protect worker from third - party harassment . I bring that forward in my original bill that become the Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Act 2023 , which recently become law . however , it be block by amendment make to the Bill in Committee in the House of Lords by the conservative party , so that such liability and protection from sexual harassment by third party in the workplace be not create . we have already discuss that several time this afternoon . I be most pleased that the Government have commit to make workplace safe through this protection , because that be what this be all about . create safe workplace be good for everyone , include business , despite what the conservative party say . a study by Culture Shift find that 66 % of business believe that prevent sexual harassment be very important . I do not know what Conservative member be talk about when they say that their inboxe be full ; I have not see a single email from a business writing to I to say that it be worried about protect its own employee from third - party harassment . accord to WorkNest , three quarter of employer be still concerned about protect employee from harassment by third party . business be concerned that they can not protect their worker from third - party harassment ; they clearly want these protection to be include in the Bill . too many people still suffer from third - party harassment at work . amendment 288 , which try to remove those important provision , be plain wrong . employer have a duty to ensure the safety of their employee from not just other employee , but third party who may interact with they in the workplace . that responsibility should be part of their broad commitment to workplace safety . if the conservative party be truly committed to a world without harassment and sexual harassment in the workplace , why be it still condone offensive language and behaviour as " banter " and " free speech " , rather than take a step to support business and protect worker from sexual harassment in the workplace , as propose in the Bill ? I be grateful that the Government have ensure the completion of my Act as it be intend a year or two ago . although I remain concerned about the misuse of nda , I welcome many of the provision in the Bill . I will be proud to walk through the No Lobby when we come to vote on amendment 288 , and I hope that all right - minded people will join I there . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a proud member of the trade union USDAW , Unison and GMB , and I be also proud to have work at a domestic abuse charity for six year . that be why I rise today to speak in support of new clause 22 , which I have table with the support of colleague from across the House . I be an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on domestic violence and abuse , the secretariat of which be ably provide by woman ' s aid . I have table this new clause follow evidence present to the APPG , with the drafting support of the law firm Hogan Lovells . new clause 22 would require employer with five or more employee to publish a domestic abuse policy outline the support they provide to worker who be victim of domestic abuse . some 2 . 3 million people , predominantly woman , experience domestic abuse each year . this be not a niche issue , but one that pervade every level of society , often with devastating effect . for example , we know that around 100 , 000 people in the UK be at high or imminent risk of be murder or seriously harm by an abuser . some member may wonder how domestic abuse relate to employer , and may question whether the new clause be necessary . to they , I say that domestic abuse be a workplace issue . up to 75 % of woman who experience domestic abuse be target at work . we know that perpetrator often harass woman at their workplace , through phone call or by arrive unannounced . abuser can also be colleague ; research by the TUC find that 16 % of victim survey say that their perpetrator work in the same place that they do . for example , Jane Clough , a 26 - year - old nurse , be stab 71 time in 2010 by her former partner , an ex - ambulance technician , outside the hospital where they have work and meet . victim - survivor need , and deserve , more support from their workplace . a number of trade union and the TUC have campaign on this issue , alongside domestic abuse charity , the Domestic Abuse Commissioner and survivor themselves . one survivor tell the domestic abuse charity SaveLives : " everyone at work know . they must have do … I wish someone … have say something , ask I how I be . I think if my manager have know what to do or say , she would have like to help , but the conversation just seem too hard , perhaps . " it be important to note that the previous Government introduce guidance on this issue alongside the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . however , without a mandatory duty on employer , the support that victim can expect remain a lottery . the Employers ' Initiative on Domestic Abuse estimate that only 5 % of employer have a policy . of course , domestic abuse also have a financial impact , both on victim and the organisation they work for . over one in five woman take time off work because of abuse , and 86 % of victim say that abuse negatively impact their work performance due to they be distract , tired or unwell . abuse stunt career progression , and research undertake by Vodafone and KPMG have find that the potential loss of earning for each victim be £ 5 , 800 a year . this clearly have severe knock - on impact for business and the economy . in 2019 , the Home Office estimate that domestic abuse cost the UK economy around £ 14 billion a year in lose economic output . a mandatory domestic abuse policy be therefore pro - worker , pro - business and pro - growth . indeed , a study in New Zealand find that introduce domestic abuse protection in the workplace have cut cost for business in that country and lead to increase level of productivity . embed domestic abuse in the ethos and practice of company here in the UK be a vital step . I be happy to say that some organisation have already take that step , lead by the pioneer Employers ' Initiative on Domestic Abuse , which support over 1 , 800 business — large and small — that collectively comprise over a quarter of the UK workforce . I be glad that company such as Sainsbury ' s , Argos and Poundland already offer employee pay leave to enable victim - survivor to attend medical or legal appointment , or to seek safe accommodation . however , we need all workplace and all victim to be cover . victim - survivor deserve far more support than they currently receive , and workplace be often the only safe place for victim to seek support and safety , but a culture of shame or stigma , a fear of not be believe , or even a concern about lose their job due to disclosure be fail victim . support those victim should be see as a key duty that would secure their health and safety . I be grateful to the Minister for acknowledge the Government ' s commitment to victim of abuse in the forthcoming violence against woman and girl strategy , but we would like to see something more — at least a taskforce consist of domestic abuse charity , employer and trade union , with , crucially , input from survivor and the Domestic Abuse Commissioner . that would complement the VAWG strategy . we need a much clear commitment from the Department to proceed with this important matter . I look forward to work far with Ministers across Departments , and to work with my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) on his ten - minute rule Bill to introduce pay leave for domestic abuse survivor , because victim of domestic abuse can not wait . let I begin by draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . as other conservative Members have already point out , the flaw in this Bill be numerous . it will damage business and , ultimately , employment opportunity , and I be deeply concerned about its consequence for our economy both nationally and in my constituency . the Government have say that they want to grow the economy , but the Bill will penalise and stifle those who do just that . business of all size , investor and entrepreneur — these be the people who grow our economy . only if we grow our economy can we invest in our much - need public service , and only then can we provide the significant increase in defence investment that be need more than ever at this time . we ought to be empower business to deliver growth , but the Bill add burden on business to such an extent that , by the Government ' s own admission , it will cost the economy up to £ 5 billion a year . in fact , I believe that that be a fairly conservative estimate and that it will probably cost much more . survey after survey have show that business confidence have go through the floor , although I do not need a survey to tell I that , because my inbox have receive a steady stream of message from local business reach out to share the detrimental impact of the Budget and their concern about the impact of measure in the Bill . every week I visit and meet business owner across my constituency , and the message be consistent and clear : how can the Government expect the economy to grow when it penalise the growth creator ? amendment 289 , table by the opposition , offer a reasonable and pragmatic compromise to mitigate the unintended consequence of place a duty on employer to prevent third - party harassment in the hospitality sector . I have listen closely to the debate on that issue , so let I say strongly that harassment of any sort be absolutely wrong . I do not for one moment condone or excuse any kind of harassment , in the hospitality sector or , indeed , in any other area . the reality be , however , that in a pub , a restaurant , a social setting or a hospitality setting , thing may be say that be not acceptable . as have already be make clear , this be not condone sexual harassment ; it be make clear that we simply can not legislate for people ' s word or language in every context . we must have free speech . surely it be reasonable to protect our landlord and restaurant owner in the hospitality sector , and to include provision exempt they in the Bill , if it have to be pass at all . it can not be fair to expect landlord to be responsible for every conversation that take place on their premise . it have be make clear to I by the many landlord and restaurant owner across my constituency whom I have meet since my election — whether it be Woody who run the Swan in Tarporley and the Lion at Malpas , or Jarina at the Rasoi and the Bulls Head — that employee welfare be a top priority for they . I know that they do everything they can to treat staff exceptionally well , and to protect they from third - party harassment . they want their staff to be safe and secure , but make such business liable for other people ' s behaviour and language be a step too far , and will have a detrimental impact on our hospitality sector . let I end by reiterate my deep and fundamental concern about the Bill as a whole . I will not be support it today . there be opposition amendment that would improve it , and I hope that they will be support , because they be pragmatic and give a glimmer of hope to business face with what be otherwise very damaging legislation . I also hope that when Labour member vote this evening they will consider the consequence of the Bill and the way in which it be detrimental to growth , something that the Government have seek to pursue . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and the fact that I be a trade union member . this Government be elect on the promise to deliver the big boost to worker ' right in a generation , and that be exactly what this Bill will do . the previous Government oversee a system that leave work people pay the price for economic decline through insecurity , poor productivity and low pay . the measure in this Bill will make a serious difference to work people ' s life . nine million people will benefit from day one protection against unfair dismissal , the around 4 , 000 mother who be dismiss each year after return from maternity leave will be protect , and 1 . 3 million people on low wage will receive statutory sick pay for the first time . in Luton North and elsewhere , these right will make a real and meaningful difference to people , especially those in new job , on low income or with insecure contract . as a former care worker , I know that fair pay in adult social care — bring worker and employer together to agree pay and condition across the whole sector — will be transformational and be long overdue . during covid , when many carer risk their life and those of their family to care for other , the last Government hand out clap , give out bin bag in place of personal protective equipment , and send carer off to food bank . this government be deliver the recognition that social care be skilled , value and vital to a thriving society . I will speak in my role as Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . our Committee ' s report in January show the need for bereavement leave follow pregnancy loss . I give my wholehearted thank to all who give evidence , which lead to our report and the amendment that follow . I thank member from across the House for their support , and I especially thank the brave woman who share their experience of lose a pregnancy with our Committee . all of they have only the option of sick leave , and every single witness say it be time for a change . grant sick leave to grieve the loss of a pregnancy be not appropriate . first , it mean that woman worker be leave fearful that human resource process will kick in follow the accrual of sick leave . secondly , it wrongly reinforce the feeling that there be something wrong with their body . thirdly , it make they feel unable to talk about their miscarriage with both their employer and their colleague , as they should be able to do . it be as if miscarriage be something shameful to approach one ' s boss about . from small business to big business , such as the Co - op Group and TUI , many employer already offer bereavement leave follow miscarriage , as do the NHS , which be the large public sector employer of woman . they all show that do the right thing be good for worker and good for business , and I be so pleased to hear the Minister commit to work with the other place to introduce miscarriage bereavement leave . this Labour Government will make the UK only the fourth country in the world to recognise the need for bereavement leave follow miscarriage , which be truly world lead . we will be a lead light in a world that seem to be take a backwards step on woman ' s right . although such leave be not pay , as outline in my amendment , it be a significant step forward . it not only provide right , but go a long way towards further how we talk about pregnancy loss in society as a whole . miscarriage should no long be ignore and stigmatise as a sickness . People have be move to tear of joy , relief and raw emotion on discover that their loss be now acknowledge and that thing will change . later tonight , in the privacy of my home , I will probably be one of those people . I commend the hon . Lady for her passion and compassion , for her honesty and for talk about this subject in the Chamber . we all recognise her commitment to the task that she have set herself , and this Government will deliver it for she . I welcome that , because we have all lose love one . we have mother and sister who have have miscarriage , and we have family member and colleague who have have miscarriage . that be why we commend the hon . Lady for make a special contribution . I thank the hon . member for his kind intervention , and I thank many member for their support throughout the year . I experience pregnancy loss while I be an MP , and the kindness of colleague in this place get I though , but at no point do any of they wrap their arm around I and say , " get well soon " ; they all say , " I ' m sorry for your loss . " I be so glad that today the Minister have commit to the law reflect society ' s view on miscarriage . I thank the Department for Business and Trade team , and especially the Minister , for meet the challenge set by the Women and Equalities Committee . each of the Committee member be committed to this , and it be enable by our excellent Clerks . I thank the member who have support my amendment — and our amendment — and so many people for their campaigning work . many member have be very kind and have express gratitude to I for table the amendment , but this be actually a team job , with team work and campaign span many year . that campaigning work include inspiration such as Myleene Klass , my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) and the former Member Angela Crawley , as well as brilliant organisation such as the Miscarriage Association , Tommy ' s , Sands and Pregnant then Screwed , and all their supporter . however , I want to say a special thank you to Vicki and her team at the Miscarriage Association . both professionally and personally , she be a voice for so many during their dark time — thank you . this change mean that the law will finally catch up with society ' s view on pregnancy loss . it be a giant leap forward in the recognition that miscarrying be a bereavement , not an illness , and worker will legally have the right to grieve . it be a particular pleasure to follow a former colleague of mine , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . what she have say will have a special resonance with the many people who be follow this debate in this Chamber and beyond . she have do a valuable public service , and we thank she for it . as be customary , I draw attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and to my membership of the GMB and Unite trade union . because time be limited , I will restrict my comment to Opposition amendment 290 on the School Support Staff Negotiating Body . this amendment seek to disapply the SSSNB ' s statutory remit from both academy and local authority maintain school , which make it substantially different from and more damaging than the similar amendment bring forward in Committee . if it be carry , it would reduce protection for many school support staff worker in employment . the vast majority of school support staff be already cover by collective bargaining , almost 80 % directly and the rest indirectly . however , the exist agreement , through the National Joint Council , do not serve support staff or employer well . last year , teach assistant be pay just £ 17 , 400 on average , and 90 % of those worker be woman . I have speak to some who have rely on food bank and payday loan to make end meet . there be 1 , 800 school support staff worker in my constituency of Birmingham Northfield , and they deserve well . Most school struggle to recruit for those role , accord to research by the National Foundation for Educational Research , and at one point during the pandemic the role of teaching assistant be the second hard to recruit for after that of HGV driver . this be not just about pay . as the Harpur v . Brazel case show , substantial liability also exist for employer because of unclear and outdated term and condition . as the Confederation of School Trusts , represent academy employer , have say , the time have come to move school support staff out from under the local government negotiate umbrella . indeed , the request from school employer be for the Bill to establish a floor , not a ceiling . that point be address in Committee , so we might ask why this amendment have be bring forward . it be in contradiction to the amendment that the opposition table in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Public Bill Committee . after all , it be the Conservatives who put the School Teachers Review Body on a statutory footing back in the early 1990 , so why will they not support the same step for school support staff ? similarly , they be not seek to amend the Bill in respect of the adult social care negotiating body , despite the similarity between the two occupation . I fear that the answer be that school support staff — the majority of people who work in school — be suffer from the soft prejudice of unequal knowledge and interest that divide the workforce into professional and ancillarie . this outdated attitude should be confine to the dustbin of history , where it belong . it be reject in this place almost 20 year ago , when the process that lead to the SSSNB begin . this be not a measure whose time have come ; it be long overdue . I wish to say a little about the importance of the measure for special educational need and disability . classroom - base support staff spend the majority of their time support SEND learner . they be essential to school ' model of inclusion . my hon . friend be give an excellent speech and refer to a really important group of people . as a former teacher — I mention it quite often — I recognise the huge importance of what school support staff provide to the classroom . do he agree that they support not just learner but teacher too , and have a wide influence on the school community ? I agree . my hon . friend make a very important point . when we look back at the national agreement in the early 2000s which lead to the expansion of school support staff role , the justification be that they would alleviate pressure on teacher and add to the quality of teaching in classroom . that be exactly what school support staff worker in my constituency and his do every day . school support staff role be essential for SEND support , but the contract those staff be employ under be so squeeze that no pay time be available for professional development or training . in other word , we can not resolve the SEND crisis without contract reform , and we can not achieve that contract reform if the drift and delay , which be the legacy of the 2010 decision to abolish the SSSNB , continue . I urge the opposition , even now , to think again and not press their amendment to a vote . in the time remain , I wish to say a few word about the provision on hospitality worker and their right not to be subject to third - party harassment . when the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , who be formerly in her place , bring forward her private Member ' s Bill in the last Parliament , it contain the same provision that be be advance now . at the start of the debate in the House of Lords , the extension of the protection to " all reasonable step " be support by the Government of the day . Baroness Scott , lead for the Conservative party , say that the measure would not infringe on freedom of speech ; in fact , they would strengthen it . the Conservative Front Benchers be right then and they be wrong today . the Bill be incredibly important . employment law in the United Kingdom have tend to advance by increment ; the Bill measure progress in stride . I be proud to have have some association with it through the Public Bill Committee . I thank the departmental team who be part of the process and the other member of the Committee . I will be proud to vote in favour of the extension to right in the Bill when they be bring forward to a vote tonight . as a proud trade unionist , I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . today mark a truly historic moment : the most significant expansion of employment right in more than a generation . I extend my congratulation to the Secretary of State and the Deputy Prime Minister for their effort , and express my enormous gratitude to the employment right Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , for his time and engagement with I over recent month in discuss the measure in the Bill . I also wish to acknowledge the dedication of Bill Committee member , as well as the countless trade union officer , academic , Labour party member and staffer who have work tirelessly for decade to bring we to this day . this be a milestone we have long strive for . on a personal note , I extend my sincere thank to the Prime Minister for entrust I , while in opposition , with the responsibility of deliver labour ' s Green Paper , " a New Deal for Working People " . I speak in support of the Government ' s amendment and will touch on my own table amendment select for discussion . specifically , I support Government new clause 32 and Government new schedule 1 , which will extend guarantee hour protection to nearly 1 million agency worker . this be a crucial step , align with my own amendment 264 , and I be pleased to see the Government take it forward . the TUC have rightly emphasise that for these right to be effective , they must apply to all worker . include agency worker be essential to prevent unscrupulous employer from circumvent new protection by shift to agency staff . exploitative tactic employ by a minority of employer , design to avoid responsibility and deny worker job security , remain a deep concern , which be precisely why I have consistently advocate for a single employment status . I table new clause 61 because I believe that establish a single status of worker be a necessary step to end unfair employment practice . the Government ' s " next step to make work pay " document , publish alongside the Bill , state their intent to consult on move towards a single worker status . on Second Reading , I note that we can not truly eradicate insecure work until we establish a clear and unified employment status . since then , the Director of Labour Market Enforcement , Margaret Beels , have tell the Business and Trade Committee that " the whole business of employment status need to be address " , add that " you can probably consult until the cow come home on this issue … it be about time to do something about it " . the TUC also urge a rapid review of employment status to prevent tactic such as bogus self - employment from proliferate as employer respond to new right . I welcome the Business and Trade Committee ' s recommendation that the Government must prioritise their review of employment status and address false self - employment " so that these reform be roll out alongside … the Employment Rights Bill . " I acknowledge the new clause table by the Chair of the Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , which seek to establish a deadline for this consultation . I urge the Government to accelerate progress on this front , but take reassurance from the fact that this issue be well understand at the high level . I turn to collective redundancy and the unacceptable practice of fire and rehire . ACAS report in 2021 that the use of fire and rehire tactic by employer be prevalent in the UK and have increase since the pandemic . nearly a fifth of young people say their employer have try to rehire they on inferior term . many will recall how P & o shamelessly break the law , choose to pay compensation rather than comply with its legal obligation because it calculate that replace its workforce with cheap labour would ultimately be more profitable . I welcome the Government ' s consultation on collective redundancy and their introduction of new clause 34 , which double the maximum protective award for unfairly dismiss worker to 180 day ' pay . however , while this may deter some employer , I question whether it be a sufficient deterrent to prevent further abuse . the TUC have raise concern that merely double the cap will still allow well - resource employer to treat breach their legal obligation as the cost of do business . the TUC instead propose a strong deterrent : the introduction of interim injunction to block fire and rehire attempt — an approach I have seek through new clause 62 . Mick Lynch , the outgoing general secretary of the RMT , tell the Bill Committee that union should have the power to seek injunction against employer like P & o . he rightly point out : " the power be all with the employer , " – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 26 November 2024 ; c . 59 , Q57 ] and that union currently lack the legal mean to stop mass dismissal before they happen . my new clause offer a solution , give employee immediate redress through an injunction if they can show that their dismissal be likely to be in breach of the new law , ensure that they remain employ with full pay until a final ruling be make . I encourage the Minister to address this issue in his response and to indicate an openness to consider injunctive power in this Parliament . my hon . friend have play such an important role in the development of these policy . he be make a wide - range speech — in his remain remark , will he reflect on the importance of not just individual right , but collective right ? my hon . friend highlight a critical issue — this be about make that shift and reverse the decline in collective bargaining . we should be look for the International Labour Organisation standard and , as per the European Union , to get to 80 % collective bargaining coverage across the piece . I also note the concern of the TUC and Unite regard Government new clause 90 to 96 , on the " one establishment " issue , and urge they to engage with the union on these issue . much have be say about wealth creator , but there need to be a recognition that work people be wealth creator and they be entitle to their fair share . the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee call for consensus . at the core of this discussion have to be that good , well - pay , secure , unionised employment be good for our constituent , our business and our economy , and this crucial Employment Rights Bill be an essential step along that road to a bright economy and a bright future for all our people . it be an absolute honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) , and I know the whole House will join I in thank he for all the work that he have do in shape the Bill before we today . the Employment Rights Bill , which I be also proud to have play a small part in shaping , represent a once - in - a - generation opportunity . the Bill be a testament to the value that we stand for : a fair day ' s pay for a fair day ' s work ; dignity ; protection ; bargaining power for worker ; and a safety net for the most vulnerable when they need it the most . there be much to celebrate in the Bill , as we have hear in the many excellent contribution today . I have also put my name to many of the amendment that we have hear hon . member speak to in the House . I do feel that all of they be design to strengthen the Bill far . however , give the time constraint , I shall focus my remark on my amendment relate to statutory sick pay . as we all know , and as have be say very eloquently today , the current system of statutory sick pay be not just insufficient , but completely and inexcusably break . we have the bad system in Europe , which be shameful . worker be entitle to just 17 % of the average weekly wage , yet the cost of living do not suddenly plunge by 83 % when they be sick . their rent , their energy bill and their grocery tab be not discount , so why do SSP remain such a paltry sum ? be force to survive on £ 118 . 75 a week — if they be lucky enough to get that in the first place — leave worker expose to financial hardship . it force many to make the difficult decision to go to work when they be unwell . it be therefore quite right that the Government have put forward major , necessary and welcome reform . they include : remove the three - day waiting period , so that worker be entitle to sick pay from day one of illness ; and extend sick pay to all worker by remove the low earning limit and implement a fair earning replacement percentage of 80 % . these reform will directly benefit more than a million low - pay worker , a disproportionate number of whom continue to be those from black , asian and minority ethnic background , woman and young people . there be much more that we can do to strengthen the Bill , which be why I have table two amendment , which will do just that and ensure that no worker be leave behind . amendment 7 call for sick pay to be align with the national living wage . let I make it clear that uprating SSP be popular with business as well as with worker . six in 10 employer agree that the rate be simply too low for worker to survive on . we know that because the poverty rate among those claim SSP be more than double that among the overall work population . amendment 7 make it clear that if a person be work full time , they should not be pay poverty wage when they be unwell . no one should have to choose between their health and their financial security , which be why my amendment would immediately raise SSP to around 67 % of the average weekly wage , put we on a par with many of our european counterpart . my new clause 102 be about ensure fairness . although I welcome the Government ' s propose system , the reality be that 300 , 000 worker may actually end up worse off than they be today . those who earn slightly above the current low earning limit of £ 123 up to £ 146 per week would receive 80 % of their earning , which be low than the SSP rate that they would receive today . we can not allow anyone to be leave behind . although remove the wait period put more money in people ' s pocket from the beginning of the illness period , worker take more than four week off due to long - term condition , go through cancer treatment , recover from serious operation or suffering from mental health crisis will face the big loss under the new system . research have find that the cost of presenteeism to the private sector in mental ill health alone be £ 24 billion a year . do my hon . friend agree that show that reform our statutory sick pay be the most pro - prosperity , pro - productivity policy that we can pursue ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and he make the case brilliantly against some of the nonsense argument about productivity that we have hear from the conservative Benches today . it be the right thing to do , but also it will lead to much improve productivity and a well , healthy , happy workforce , as well as be much well for the employer . my amendment and new clause would ensure that every worker receive , at the very least , the same amount of sick pay that they would have do under the current system , and not a penny less . I urge the Government to support they , as they be very much in the spirit of this legislation . I congratulate my hon . friend and his colleague on advance the Bill — eight month into their mandate , we be at the remain stage . in Northern Ireland , 13 month after restoration , the propose NI " good job " Bill have not even be introduce , and doubt be grow as to whether it will pass in this mandate . once again , worker and business in Northern Ireland be pay the cost of dither and lack of ambition . do he agree that those same barrier to people on sick pay also apply to woman on maternity leave ? would he support in principle my new clause 23 , which would raise statutory maternity pay for woman in work to the living wage for the later part of maternity leave ? absolutely . my hon . friend make the case brilliantly . I would support that in principle , because the challenge be exactly the same . I say at the beginning of my speech that many of the amendment , if not all — not the one table by the Opposition , but the reasonable one from the Government Benches — be constructive and design to improve the Bill far . my hon . friend the Minister and I have have the great pleasure of work together for many month on the Bill , so he will know that I come from a position of sincerity to strengthen the Bill far . I fully understand that amendment 7 be a probe amendment , which will not be vote on in Lobbies . however , it do reflect the ambition that we should rightly have because it be shameful , frankly , that we be in the situation of offer among the low statutory sick pay . our partner across Europe , quite rightly , be much well on this . I ask the Minister to seriously consider new clause 102 . again , it do not ask for any immediate action today ; it ask the Government to come back to the House in three month to report back that nobody will be bad off as a result of these measure . I do not think that be ever an intended consequence of the Government ' s excellent measure , so I look forward to my hon . friend engage with I far on that . finally , I want to end by pay tribute to the million of worker who be the backbone of our economy . it be my hope that , with the amendment and new clause that we have propose today , we can take significant step towards a society that reward worker instead of punish they , that treat they with dignity instead of malice , and where no one must choose between their health and their livelihood . I place proudly on the record that I be currently a member of Unite and GMB . I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I take the opportunity to pay tribute to my good friend Terry Jones , a brilliant Scouse trade unionist who sadly pass away this morning . he support the Bill wholeheartedly . forty - five year after Margaret Thatcher begin her war on trade union , the Bill be hugely welcome and long overdue . it be a step to turn back the tide and strengthen the power of worker . in a former life as an industrial organiser for Unite the union , I see how difficult it be to build industrial strength in workplace because of the restrictive legislation support by previous government of all colour . the Bill will hopefully begin at long last to turn back that tide . hon . member have already discuss key measure in the Bill , and there be so much to welcome . I congratulate the Minister on his effort in get the Bill to this place , and I also congratulate he and his team on take two point off Arsenal , which help we no end on Sunday . the Bill need to be not the end , though , but the beginning of a renewal of trade union right . if we want to tackle the injustice do to the work class from low pay and poverty to sordid inequality , we need to empower the institution that be found to fight for the work class . be in no doubt about the scale of the problem : 60 % of those who use the nine food pantry run across Liverpool be in work , include public sector worker from nurse to Department for Work and Pensions worker . let that sink in : 60 % of those rely on emergency food aid be in work . that tell we how break the labour market be for so many people . economic growth go hand in hand with fix the break economic settlement , hence the importance of the Bill . I will focus my comment on the amendment but , for the record , tomorrow we will debate two new clause that I have table about uphold trade union right and outsourcing . my amendment for debate today — amendment 326 and 327 — be aim at strengthen protection against unfair dismissal , but in my brief time I will focus on amendment table by colleague . my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) have table a series of crucial amendment to strengthen the Bill . he deserve a huge amount of credit for get the Bill to this place . his amendment include amendment 265 to 267 , which would enhance the Bill ' s provision against zero - hour contract . those contract leave worker with precious little control over their life , allow boss to dictate shift with little or no notice , with worker vulnerable to gross exploitation . it be no wonder that worker overwhelmingly prefer regular contract . for example , when Wetherspoons introduce the option of guarantee hour for its workforce , 99 % of worker opt for that , with just 1 % choose the zero - hour contract model . the amendment would help ensure that when we say we be ban exploitative zero - hour contract , we actually mean it . my hon . friend have also table new clause 62 to 65 , which would strengthen the Bill ' s protection against the disgraceful practice of fire and rehire . I see in my own family the devastating impact that this cruel practice can have in destroy livelihood when my brother be a victim of fire and rehire at British Gas . this immoral practice should never again be able to be use by rogue employee as a weapon against the work class of this country . I fully support those strengthen new clause . my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) have table amendment 7 , which would raise statutory sick pay to the level of the national living wage , and new clause 102 , which would guarantee that worker do not lose out under the new fair earning replacement proposal . we should have learn from the pandemic that no one should be force into work when they be ill . those amendment and other would help to make that a reality . I really hope that the Minister and Front - Bench Members be listen . the devastating consequence of Thatcherism ' s assault on working - class community and trade union be see in town and city across the country . once vibrant industrial town have be hollow out and industry destroy , with insecure work replace well - pay , unionised job . the never - end doom loop must be break if we be to rebuild community that at the moment feel forget , betray and abandon by successive government since Thatcher . the Bill must be a decisive step in break away from a fail settlement and finally build a country that work for we all . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a proud trade union member and in my career , I have campaign for more right for support staff and teach assistant in school , for well bargaining right for care worker , for people to have contract that affect the hour they work and for statutory sick pay from day one . I be proud that the Bill will deliver all those thing — and much more — for work people up and down the country . I rise to speak to the issue of parental leave , which have come up in relation to many amendment and in contribution from member across the House . since I be elect in July , I have speak three time in the Chamber about the terrible inequality around dad ' right and paternity pay , include in my maiden speech during the International Men ' s Day debate and again in the debate on this Bill in last October . I therefore welcome the clause that support dad ' right and will encourage more man to take their paternity leave entitlement . in the last Parliament , my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) introduce a private member ' s Bill that come into force in April 2024 . the protection from Redundancy ( Pregnancy and Family Leave ) Act 2023 extend the protect period from redundancy for parent . the protect period be the length of time during which a member of staff must be offer an appropriate , suitable post should their job role be at risk of redundancy . that protect period apply to the mother for 18 month after her child be bear , to adoptive parent for 18 month after their child arrive in England , Scotland or Wales from overseas or the date on which the adoption placement start , and for 18 month for those take more than six week of share parental leave . those be the only group of parent include in the extension to the protect period , which mean that dad take paternity leave be leave out . dad may benefit from the protection if they adopt a child , which be great , or if they take more than six week of share parental leave , but dad who take paternity leave have no such protection , and that be obviously wrong . in Darlington , dad and mum raise parental leave and dad ' right on the doorstep all the time . Pregnant then Screwed estimate that 74 , 000 mother a year lose their job while pregnant or take maternity leave . that be appalling , and my hon . and gallant Friend ' s Act will protect woman from that utterly awful motherhood penalty . he be right to take action to protect work mum ; however , I urge the Government to take action to extend the protection to dad in the upcoming parental leave review . clause 22 directly amend the Employment Rights Act 1996 to offer further protection to pregnant woman , which be absolutely right . once again , the additional right extend to mum , parent take adoptive leave and parent take share parental leave . we rightly want those people to be protect . the right also extend to bereaved father , which be important , but they do not extend to those take paternity leave . in anticipation of the argument that dad can benefit from share parental leave , I want to outline why it do not work as a policy or law . five per cent of dad take share parental leave . that be because it be a bit of a gimmick . first , the second partner — most often the father of the child — be more likely to take a small share of the share parental leave , which be often less than six week and therefore would not qualify for additional redundancy protection . secondly , and far to that argument , share parental leave be itself a policy that be tough on mother . mother who want to go back to work should be able to do so , and if they want to go back early and not use their full maternity right , we obviously support that . my view be not in conflict with the right of mother , but be in addition to and in support of they . share parental leave , however , be an anti - mother policy , and that be why only 5 % of father and partner take it . father , mother and baby need time together . they need time to bond , time to heal and time to adjust to the earth - shatter experience of become a parent , together . in practice , dad , who be often the breadwinner , go dutifully back to work , sleep - deprive and under heavy societal pressure to provide for and protect their new family . they have to keep that job , and that be because so many woman face maternity discrimination . I absolutely appreciate the effort and scale of this landmark legislation and appreciate the vast - reach scope of the measure it contain . it will improve many life . I be a pragmatist and be hopeful that we can get an increase in paternity pay . for now , however , I simply ask for parity for paternity — for dad ' right . seventy - two per cent of the public support more protection for dad , but only a third of new dad take paternity leave . something be badly wrong there and I urge the Minister to listen to the campaign group the Dad Shift , which say that an estimate 4 , 000 dad a year who take paternity leave lose their job because of it . my generation and those young than I be the keen yet for more family time , but their primary concern be pay the bill . the rate of paternity leave , the huge swathe of discrimination for return mother and the lack of protection mean that dad can not even take what they be entitle to . we have to change that . I be proud of this Bill and proud of our government , and I be very hopeful for dad . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and declare that I be a proud member of the GMB . I stand to speak against amendment 289 , which would exclude the hospitality sector and sport venue from the Bill ' s duty for employer not to permit harassment of their employee . the first time I be harass at work be when I be 14 year old , wait table at a charity event . the second time be when I be 16 , in a bistro , except this time I be be pay for the experience . after that , it be when I be a student work in a bar , then when I work in a canteen , and then in a warehouse . it be because of that experience — one share by people of both sex and all age , but particularly the young and particularly woman , across this country — that I be , I be not go to lie , absolutely gobsmacke by the amendment table by the shadow Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , to the protection from harassment clause , which would exclude those work in the hospitality sector or sport venue . the conservative party be argue that some kind of harassment be okay and that if you be work in the hospitality sector or in a sport venue , it be fine . tory seem to believe that if you go to a pub , your right to harass bar staff be great than their right not to be harass . I have to say , that be quite an extraordinary thing to argue for , but I be glad that they be at least be honest with we . job in hospitality often involve insecure work on low pay that be reliant on tip . in Margate , Ramsgate and Broadstairs , thousand of people work in job like that , and I do not see why it should be deem acceptable for they to be harass in their job , but not people who work in an office . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and I be a proud member of the GMB . do my hon . friend agree that even more concern be the call from the Opposition Benches , and particularly from the former Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , for the Equality Act to be scrap , which would mean that law cover sexual harassment and equal pay would be completely remove from the workplace ? this be a really troubling agenda from the Conservatives , and I believe it be in keep with this amendment . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention . it be indeed a very worrying direction of travel from the Conservatives . we on the Labour Benches think that people should not be allow to harass any worker . I honestly do not expect this to be a controversial aspect of the Bill for the Conservatives . perhaps I be be uncharitable , so I would really appreciate it if the shadow Secretary of State , who be now in his place , could answer a few question . when do it become conservative party policy to allow staff to be harass ? why do that apply only to staff work in hospitality and sport venue and not to all worker ? why be it all right to harass bar staff but not office staff ? I know that the hon . Lady have not be in the Chamber for most of the debate , so she will have miss many of the discussion where my hon . friend have explain the nuance of our position on this , which relate to the law of unintended consequence where publican and nightclub owner could be responsible for police the word of their customer . that be clearly not a tenable situation , but I will repeat the word of all of my colleague on this side of the House : sexual harassment be abhorrent . we do not condone it in any shape or form , and I ask she to withdraw the insinuation that anyone on this side of the House have any truck with such behaviour . I would like to emphasise that I listen closely to the opening speech when the hon . Lady ' s colleague be talk about amendment 289 . I hear clearly , for example , some confusion over whether sexual harassment be a crime or a civil offence , so I will not take any lesson from the Conservatives on their understanding of employment law or , indeed , what be consider acceptable at work . the amendment be utterly disgraceful . I be proud that this Labour Government have bring forward a Bill to stop worker be harass wherever they work . it be just a shame that the conservative party do not agree . the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , and apparently the hon . member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) , think that it be wrong that pub landlord will have to be responsible for kick out customer . he talk about it be a " banter ban " , but pub manager have always know the importance of keep rowdy behaviour in limit and protect their staff and customer from be pester or be make the unwilling butt of so - call joke . this law — will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not give way . this law will strengthen their hand . I say , in the word of the great pub manager of all time — Peggy Mitchell — to the proposer of the amendment , " get outta my pub ! " quite . I call Dr Jeevun Sandher . what a speech to follow . I can not quite claim to be Peggy Mitchell , but I will try to live up to that brilliant remark . I rise as a proud member of the GMB . I happily refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I will speak to new clause 37 and 38 , which relate to part 3 of the Bill . they will strengthen the bargaining power of social worker and , by do so , create a strong work relationship between employee and employer that both side will invest more in . that mean high wage for those who look after our parent , more training and a healthy social care workforce . both side will invest more ; both side will benefit more . pro - worker , pro - business , pro - growth — that be what these amendment and this Bill will achieve . before enter this place , I be a trade union rep , and I work with my colleague to help stop a 33 % pay cut in my workplace . worker speak with one voice mean a happy and more productive workplace — one voice to set out what it mean to increase productivity . that be why this be a pro - growth Bill . social care worker be among the low pay in our economy . one in six be legally pay less than the minimum wage . little proper certification , reward or recognition for skill mean that there be little training . poor condition mean that almost half suffer from work - relate stress . low pay , little progression and poor condition be the reason why a third of social care worker leave the sector each year . that be what this Bill and these new clause will fix . the Adult Social Care Negotiating Body will mean more social care worker speak as one voice , gain high wage , well condition and more training . those benefit do not just appear on payslip ; they mean less time spend worry about pay the bill , and more time with our family and read to our child . they make worker more productive and benefit employer — they make life worth live . those on the Opposition Benches say that life can not improve . they have talk a lot of fear instead of hope and the change we can achieve . they will likely vote against our amendment and against the Bill . in do so , they would deny their constituent well wage and , indeed , a well life . we can not simply sit back and hope that wage rise , that training will magically appear , or that condition will get well on their own . we have to act to make it so . the Bill and the amendment do exactly that by give social care worker the power to speak with one voice to negotiate high wage , well training and well condition , benefit employee and employer — pro - worker , pro - business and pro - growth . that be what the Bill stand for . that be what I stand for . that be what we stand for . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . have be a trade union activist for 40 year and a regional official , I have a genuine sense of pride in see the Bill make its way through Parliament . it be truly transformational and seek to address the imbalance that have exist in the workplace for far too long . many of the amendment before we strengthen exist right so as to ensure that unscrupulous employer be unable to frustrate , delay or act unreasonably when deal with their workforce , either collectively or as individual . other amendment , such as new clause 101 in my name , seek to introduce new right and protection for group of worker who have hitherto be forget or overlook . my new clause call for the establishment of a regulatory body for foster carer . currently , those who employ foster carer — local authority , charity and independent foster agency — also serve as de facto regulator , with the power to register and de - register worker . that put too much power in the hand of the employer , and , accord to the foster carer branch of the Independent Workers Union of Great Britain , it illustrate a structure within the sector that fail to bring consistency , transparency , fairness or decent outcome for the child and young people in their care . a new regulatory body would therefore accredit educational institution to provide standardised training course . once complete , those course would remain on a carer ' s work record . at the moment , every time a foster carer start with a new provider , they be require to do the training again . that be both unnecessarily costly and time consume . the body would also be responsible for maintain a central register of foster care worker , and would ensure proper standard of care and deal with fitness - to - practice case . as with the very good regulatory body , it would include those with live experience of foster care . one of the key role of that propose body would be to standardise the employment right available to carer , such as maximum working hour , entitlement to statutory sick pay and protection against unfair dismissal , while also consider the important issue of collective sectoral bargaining . through that , we would hope to see improvement in pay , minimum allowance , holiday and pension entitlement . as the UK continue to lose foster carer at an alarming rate , now be the time for that basic oversight , which will help to ensure we have enough safe and love home for the vulnerable child who need they . my amendment 316 to 323 relate to the issue of redundancy . over the year , I have negotiate with a number of employer over hundred of redundancy , and I be seek to improve the legislation base on that first - hand experience . amendment 316 would require an employer to hold meaningful consultation even if they be prepare to make few than 20 staff redundant — something that many good employer already do , of course — whereas amendment 317 and 318 would introduce great sanction for those who fail to consult properly . amendment 319 would treat worker dismiss under fire and rehire as have be make redundant and would ensure that they receive great remuneration as a result . amendment 320 to 323 all seek to improve the level of redundancy pay by remove the 20 - year cap on entitlement ; by ensure that someone with 10 year and six month ' service , for example , receive 11 year ' redundancy pay rather than 10 ; by base the statutory redundancy calculation on month rather than week ; and by ensure those with less than two year ' service also have the right to redundancy payment . of course , there be many reason why redundancy occur , but at the moment , the rule and sanction around this issue enable some unscrupulous employer to exploit the situation and treat their staff unfairly . these amendment seek to address that imbalance , and I hope the Government will consider way in which the issue I have highlight can be include in the legislation . I be a proud trade unionist , and I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I commend the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister for introduce this landmark legislation , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) , who do a huge amount of work on it as shadow Minister . all of they have dedicate their life to stand up for work people , and this Bill be a culmination of that work and the work of trade unionist over many , many year . I would like to speak in support of new clause 73 . my own experience of take time off work as an MP and the contrast with the experience of those on statutory sick pay make it clear just how badly reform be need . some year ago , when I need to take a leave of absence because of the severity of my post - traumatic stress disorder symptom , I receive full pay and a phase return , but for many worker , that be a million mile from their experience . the UK have some of the bad sick pay entitlement in Europe . the fact that the Bill mean that sick pay will be pay from day one , instead of after day three , be very welcome , as be the removal of the eligibility threshold , increase access for more than 1 million low - pay worker . however , we must acknowledge that without increase the rate , the low level of statutory sick pay will continue to place a terrible burden on those who be already poorly pay . that be why amendment 7 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , be so important . those be far from the only issue . another problem be the inflexibility of statutory sick pay , and that be why I have work with the mental health charity mind to table new clause 73 . More than 8 million working - age people have long - term health condition and experience challenge at work . statutory sick pay currently do not allow for a proper phase return or for worker to reduce their hour during period of ill health . statutory sick pay can only be pay for a full day of sickness . if a worker need a half day , for instance , SSP can not be use to cover the hour they be not work . if we force people to return to work before they be ready , whether that be because they can not afford to remain on statutory sick pay or because a phase return be not an option for they , they be far more likely to be trap in a cycle of poor mental wellbeing and to fall out of work completely . new clause 73 would mean that sick pay be pay pro rata , by hour rather than day , to allow for that great flexibility . year of successive Government review have come to the same conclusion : a flexible statutory sick pay model would improve life and well support people to remain in work . I have appreciate Ministers ' engagement with I on this issue , and I hope the Government will commit to look at it far , especially as the cost to the Government would only be administrative . however , the impact it would have on people ' s life be huge . the Labour movement fight long and hard for the right to sick pay and proper support for those with long - term illness and disability , whether in work or not , because our movement and our party exist to stand up for the whole of the work class . at a time when more people be affect by sickness and disability , it be crucial that this government support they and do not scapegoat they for the failure and the political choice of the conservative party . as a young worker in the late 1980 , I experience the precarious nature of the world of work , along with many of my peer . lack of knowledge about our right and the fear of be sack if we complain about our term and condition politicise I and make I a lifelong trade unionist and a member of Unite and Unison . I wish to speak to new clause 92 , on roll - up holiday pay for irregular hour worker and part - year worker , and new clause 93 , entitle " Working Time Regulations 1998 : record " , which be table in my name . like most colleague in this House , and along with the trade union movement and the million of worker who will benefit from its provision , I warmly welcome the Bill and thank everyone who have campaign for it long and hard . the majority of people spend a huge portion of their life in work . work should be an opportunity to be fulfil , to live fully , to support ourselves and our family , to develop as individual , and to contribute to society . in reality , however , for too long and for too many the world of work have be , and be , a world of uncertainty and ruthless exploitation , often strip people of their dignity and their worth . for million there be a struggle to obtain secure work , and that strengthen the hand of employer to drive a hard bargain to benefit their balance sheet and their profit . for those who can secure work , work life can remain unclear and insecure . it can include irregular and uncertain employment , uncertainty about hour , payment , and vital matter such as holiday pay and entitlement . while other in the House boast of their endless push for so - call flexible labour market , the reality be very different for those on the other side of the employment contract — for the worker . the previous Government speak about cut so - call red tape , when they really mean reduce people ' s work right and strengthen the power of boardroom billionaire . my proposed new clause be in relation to certain sector , although they would benefit all worker . it be widely know and acknowledge that some employer use so - call roll - up holiday pay as a device to tackle their obligation to provide pay time off for holiday . holiday and break from work be essential for worker , and a recognise factor in deliver an effective organisation in the public and private sector . so - call roll - up holiday pay be a mechanism by which an employer add holiday pay to basic pay throughout the working year , but do not provide it separately at the time of take the holiday . it be acknowledge , include by ACAS , that that create a risk that a worker may feel under pressure not to take any holiday , or to take less holiday than they be entitle to . that be particularly a risk for those who work in sector of the economy where the work be irregular , and along with that , their work also tend to be lower pay . the pressure on such worker be immense . new clause 92 seek to address that risk — a risk accept and address by ruling from the European Court of Justice . new clause 93 would ensure that working time be accurately record by employer . colleague across the House may recall that the recordkeeping requirement under the Working Time Regulations 1988 be water down by amendment table by the previous Government in November 2023 , follow the UK ' s withdrawal from the EU . they believe that it be too cumbersome to require employer to maintain accurate record on behalf of employee , refer to it as " time consume " and " disproportionate reporting . " what a load of rubbish . with advance in modern technology , there be no excuse for an employer to fail to accurately and precisely keep record of the work time contribute by a worker . the onus of managing record should be shift from employee to allow they to focus on their own role without add administrative requirement . this government ' s Employment Rights Bill will deliver a new deal for work people , and I wholeheartedly support it , but I urge the Minister to take account of the issue I have raise and to accept new clause 92 and 93 , which would strengthen the Bill ' s provision and increase protection for the section of worker who need it the most . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and I be a proud member of Community . it be an honour to speak as this landmark Bill hopefully pass its next stage , finally bring to an end an era of insecurity and low pay under the conservative party . this landmark Bill bring in day one right for worker , a fair pay agreement for social care worker and great entitlement to statutory sick pay . my speech will focus on and highlight the way in which the Bill and some of its amendment strengthen the right of care worker and carer , the majority of whom be woman . we have hear already in this debate many proposal from hon . member on the Government Benches to go far than the excellent proposal before we to strengthen day one right for employee . my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) speak movingly about pregnancy loss and bereavement , and , along with my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , talk about the need for strong entitlement to parental leave . all of that will have a really positive impact , particularly on woman . I draw attention particularly to the day one right that strengthen flexible work by default . I invite the Minister to consider give guidance to employer that they should require flexible working to be advertise . the Fawcett Society have make a particularly strong case for the importance of that for woman , and I know that that be also true for carer . if , before apply for a job , they do not know that they can secure that flexibility , many will not even apply . some 40 % of woman who be not currently work say that if flexible work be available to they , it would enable they to do pay work , so we be miss out on huge potential for business . the Fawcett Society survey in 2023 say that 77 % of woman agree that they would be more likely to apply for a job that advertise flexible working option , while 30 % have have to turn down a job offer when employer be unable to offer the flexible working that they need . while the Bill make excellent provision , I urge the Minister to respond on how we can implement that in practice , so that carer and particularly woman can have the confidence to apply for job and know that they can have those flexible working requirement . I thank the hon . Lady for her warm word about carer . will she therefore support Liberal Democrat new clause 10 , which would make pay carer ' s leave an entitlement ? the hon . Gentleman may know that I be the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on carer . we be very pleased that there be now unpaid leave requirement for carer ; on other occasion , I have urge the Government to look into go far with pay entitlement for carer . there be a real opportunity to enable the 3 million carer in pay employment to remain in employment and to stop the loss of an estimate 600 people per day who leave work due to their caring responsibility . while that be not part of this Bill , hopefully the Government and the Minister will respond to that . that be the first area of the Bill that I really welcome . the second , which have huge benefit for care worker , be its provision on pay and condition through pay agreement . I echo some of the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , who be no long in his place , about the huge benefit that these will bring to so many of our value adult social care staff . the establishment of the new Fair Work Agency will ensure that everyone be play by the same rule , and strengthen power to deal with modern slavery and labour abuse will far extend protection to care worker . many care worker have come to this country on overseas visa and , have pay extortionate fee in their country of origin , have find themselves tie into accommodation here , on zero - hour contract and be exploit by the care company . as such , the provision in the Bill be very welcome . we know that too many care worker live in poverty ; research by the Health Foundation suggest that one in five care worker can not afford the essential , either for themselves or for their child . I be proud to be sit on the Labour Benches as we bring forward fair pay agreement , along with the abolition of exploitative zero - hour contract , which will finally provide security for our value social care worker . in implement these change , it be really important that we establish a framework to help home care worker in particular — some of whom I meet recently — who be not pay for their travel time or their sleep - in hour , despite the fact that such practice should be illegal . as we take forward the fair pay agreement in adult social care , I urge the Minister to work with colleague to ensure it be accompany by an ethical charter for care provider to sign up to . this Government have already show how serious they be about value those who do so much to care for , and provide support to , disabled adult and old people in this country . the third area I want to mention , which other colleague have talk about and which my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) have address in his new clause 102 — [ interruption . ] Madam Deputy Speaker , I keep look at the clock . I believe there be an issue ; would you please advise I on my remain time ? yes , the clock have stop . you start at 7 pm , but you do take an intervention , so I think you can go for one more minute . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . very briefly , I be delighted that the Government be strengthen statutory sick pay . during covid , many care worker be force to go into work — at their own risk , and risk those they be care for — because they be not eligible for statutory sick pay , so strengthen it be an excellent move . in conclusion , this Bill , together with the propose Government amendment and some of those suggest by my hon . friend , will ensure that the 1 . 5 million people work in adult social care can get fair pay , guarantee hour , statutory sick pay and day one right . it be good for worker , and it be good for woman . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my Unison membership . I welcome the Bill , which be a once - in - a - generation chance to give more power to work people — include those in Ealing Southall — and I support the Government amendment to provide decent sick pay to 1 . 3 million low - pay worker . I do not support the opposition ' s amendment , which attempt to tie we up in knot in an effort to block work people from get the right they should be entitle to . I particularly want to consider the impact of the Bill and the Government amendment on disabled people . currently , almost 3 million people be off work long - term sick — a record high . of course , some of those be disabled people who be unable to work . however , there be also many disabled people who desperately want to work , but who have be kick out of their job because their employer refuse to make simple change that would allow they to succeed . in my previous role as national disability officer for the country ' s big trade union , Unison , we work with Disability Rights UK and Scope to develop the disability employment charter . that charter be a list of improvement to help disabled people get , and keep , employment . over 240 employer , both large and small , sign up to say that they back the idea in the charter — they back disabled worker ’ right — but the previous Conservative Government see it all as red tape . they do not listen , and they refuse to introduce those change . they leave million of disabled people who want to work stuck on benefit , and the Opposition ' s amendment today be just more of the same . those 240 employer that sign the disability employment charter , and the many disabled worker who have be push out of their job , will be hearten to see the change be introduce in the new Employment Rights Bill . many of those change implement the demand of the charter , include allow flexible working , more support for trade union disability rep , and strengthen sick pay . those 240 employer would reject the opposition ' s many amendment whose aim be to frustrate this support for disabled worker . People be often surprised to learn that low - pay worker be not entitle to statutory sick pay , and that unless the employer company have its own scheme , they can claim statutory sick pay only after three day of be ill . during the pandemic , that lead to social care staff , in particular , feel force to work when they have covid , potentially pass the illness on . lack of access to sick pay be a public health issue , and this new law will ensure that low - pay worker no long have to choose between not be pay and go to work sick . it will also give disabled worker time off to recover from illness rather than struggle into work . , become sicker , and potentially fall out of employment for the long term . be pay to take a few day off to recover could save they , and the economy , a lifetime of be leave on the scrapheap . will my hon . friend give way ? no , because many member be wait to speak . I welcome Government amendment 80 to 85 , which specify the level of sick pay that low - pay worker will now be able to expect from day one . I know that some employer want to pay a bit less and trade union want a bit more , but 80 % be a compromise . I certainly do not support the delay tactic of the Opposition , who have seek impact appraisal that already exist and show that these change will lead to an increase in productivity and growth if we can get disabled people work when they want to do so . this transformative Bill respond to a key demand of the disability employment charter for a default right to flexible working . for many disabled worker , the ability to organise their hour around take medication and deal with pain or fatigue will mean be able to keep their job rather than end up sick or be march out of the door . in line with the charter , this new law also introduce pay time off for trade union equality representative , a subject that I know we will discuss tomorrow . negotiate reasonable adjustment can take time , and input from a train person , whose priority be to keep the worker in his or her job , will make all the difference . however , Unison research have establish that nearly a quarter of disabled worker who ask their employer for reasonable adjustment wait a year or more for help , and some never even receive a reply . you can not do a job that cause you pain , or set you up to fail , so it be no wonder that disabled people end up out of the door . the disability employment charter call for a new right to a two - week deadline for at least receive a reply to a reasonable adjustment request . currently there be no deadline for such a response , although in the case of flexible working request the employer must respond within eight week . I have have constructive discussion with the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , and I be hopeful that we may see such a deadline include in the " get Britain Working " plan , which complement the Bill . many good employer already support disabled worker , and I pay tribute to the 240 who have back the disability employment charter and right for those worker . the Bill and the Government amendment will ensure that there be a level playing field , so that bad employer can not undercut those who want to do the right thing . they will ensure that more disabled worker can keep job that they value , and can contribute to the growth that we need to get our economy work again . I call Alex Sobel , and ask he to keep his remark to four minute . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and my 28 - year membership of the GMB union . new clause 72 , which stand in my name , would place a duty on employer to investigate whistleblowe concern and establish internal channel for report and manage whistleblow disclosure . in recent year we have see scandal rock the country in which whistleblower raise the alarm at an early stage only for their warning to be ignore and for disastrous consequence to follow . scandal with thousand of victim , such as the Post Office Horizon case , the Grenfell Tower fire tragedy and the collapse of Carillion , involve whistleblower raise the alarm only to face a wall of silence . we see the very bad of that at Yorkshire cricket club in my constituency when Azeem Rafiq suffer year of racist harassment and abuse . despite the number of player who admit to racist remark or action , the club ' s leadership refuse to accept their mistake and refuse to release the full report , instead release an edit summary . only when Azeem appear before the Culture , Media and Sport Committee do the full scale of institutional racism at the club become know . these failure have a tragic human cost , and they often place a significant strain on the taxpayer . accord to the report " the cost of Whistleblowing Failures " , the avoidable cost incur owe to the failure to listen to whistleblower in the Post Office Horizon , Carillion and Letby case be £ 426 million . it be unacceptable for the taxpayer to have to bear the burden of fail system and a fail legislative framework , which be why we need a new legal duty on employer to investigate whistleblowing . new clause 72 would ensure that employer must take " reasonable step " to investigate any protect disclosure make to they . it would compel large employer to establish internal channel and appropriate procedure for report . by ensure that disclosure be investigate , we can prevent scandal such as Horizon from occur and ensure that harm in the workplace be deal with early . the new clause be proudly pro - worker and pro - business , and would tackle one of the long - stand issue with our current whistleblowing legal framework for worker . the status quo provide only an after - the - event remedy for whistleblower , and this new clause would ensure that there be channel for whistleblower from the start . YouGov and protect ' s research find that 76 % of worker want a legal duty on employer to investigate whistleblowing concern , and new clause 72 would deliver on the long - stand demand from worker . in the light of recent scandal , business be realise the value of whistleblower in help to root out wrongdoing and harm within their own company . in its report on the Post Office scandal , the Institute of Directors recommend that " all employer should be require to meet standard for whistleblowing and follow recognise procedure . " new clause 72 would require employer to take " reasonable step " , mean that vexatious or insignificant concern would not always require an investigation . this be a once - in - a - generation opportunity to revolutionise whistleblowe law . the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 be groundbreake for its time , but the UK have since fall behind our comparator jurisdiction , such as the EU and Japan , on whistleblow protection . I hope that the Government will consider support new clause 72 or equivalent measure , which would be good for worker , business and taxpayer . I also hope that the Minister will meet I to discuss this matter follow today ' s debate . through this new clause , we can take action to ensure that whistleblower be support , that business be give the tool to root out wrongdoing , and that taxpayer be spare from have to bail out state scandal . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and the fact that I be a proud trade union member . I give my full support to the measure in this landmark Bill . in Derby we make thing , from nuclear reactor that power submarine to the train , car and aeroplane engine that get people and good where they need to go , and food production operation that help put food on our table . we do not just have large company with big economy of scale ; we also have thousand of small and medium - sized company . many business that I have visit — large and small — be invest in their workforce , want to pay they properly and want to provide stable , secure work that enable their employee to build life and family , but they want a level playing field so that they be not undercut by competitor that do not play by the rule , that avoid their responsibility and that exploit those who work for they . when people be stick in insecure , low - pay work , plan for their future be impossible . it be wrong that so many people have no idea whether they will have five hour of work or 50 in a week , wrong that they have no idea whether they will earn enough to pay their bill , and wrong that they can have pay for childcare , be on a bus to work and get a call say they be no long need . what be shocking be that we have 2 . 4 million people in irregular work , such as those on zero - hour or low - hour contract , or in agency job . I be proud that this Government , through this Bill , be take action to end exploitative zero - hour contract , and that amendment 32 and 33 will ensure that agency worker be also protect . on second reading of this groundbreaking Bill , I speak about the importance of enforcement . a right be not worth the paper it be write on unless it be enforce ; and the provision that we make , the guidance that we set and the law that we pass be only as strong as the enforcement . for part of my career as a barrister , I have the honour of represent work people , but I always know that for the many who do seek justice through tribunal , there be many who do not feel able to take action . the Low Pay Commission have find that low - pay and exploit worker can be reluctant to speak out about abuse of their right . last year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of a Labour Government bring in the national minimum wage , but the Low Pay Commission estimate that one in five worker receive it be not provide with the correct pay in 2022 . on Second Reading , I call for the strengthening of the Fair Work Agency , which will enforce the national minimum wage , statutory sick pay and a wide range of right , such as holiday pay , so that everyone play by the same rule . I be hugely pleased to see that new clause have be table that would strengthen the power of the Fair Work Agency . as we will talk about tomorrow , new clause 57 would give the agency power to bring proceeding to an employment tribunal on behalf of worker . that could make a huge difference for worker , and it help protect business from be undercut by act as a real deterrent . the soon that these measure be in place , the soon enforcement can begin and justice can be deliver , and this will bring we well protection , well productivity and well growth . first , I think I need to mention that my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) be celebrate his 40th birthday today , and what a great way to spend his birthday . he be one of the people who have work tirelessly over many year in different guise to help we get where we be today . give the number of speech and contribution , it be just not go to be possible to pay tribute to everyone in the time I have , or indeed to reference every speech and every amendment , but I will do my good to cover as much as possible . I will start with my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) , whose new clause 73 relate to significant structural change to the statutory sick pay system . I think she make a very personal and persuasive speech , and I agree with she that phase return to work be an effective tool in support people to stay in or return to work , help to reduce the flow into economic inactivity and the cost to business of sickness absence . by remove the wait period , employee will be entitle to statutory sick pay for every day of work miss . this well enable phase return to work — for example , by support someone who normally work five day a week to work a three - day week , be pay SSP for the other two day . that simply would not have be possible under the exist system . we be committed to continue to work closely with employee and employer to develop and implement a system that be fair , supportive and effective in kick - start economic growth and break down barrier to opportunity , and we will continue to have conversation about that . turn to new clause 102 from my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , I pay tribute to he for his work as a shadow Minister in this area . the change we be bring in through this Bill mean that up to 1 . 3 million low - pay employee will now be entitle to statutory sick pay , and all eligible employee will be pay from the first day of sickness absence , benefit million of employee . the new percentage rate be consistent with the structure use for other statutory payment . it be simple to understand and implement , and with the removal of waiting period , the internal modelling from the Department for Work and Pensions show that most employee , even those who may nominally earn less per week , will not be bad off over the course of their sickness absence . I believe the speech by my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) be she first from the Back Benches , and I do not think she will be on they for very long if she continue to make such contribution . I think it be an excellent speech , and the way she speak about her constituent Mr B really hammer home the importance of tackle non - disclosure agreement . I would like to pay tribute to her ongoing effort to ensure that victim of misconduct and bullying can speak up about their experience , and get the help and support they need . I want to thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for originally table the amendment , and for meet I last week to share , sadly , another horrific story about the abuse of nda . I also thank the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) for her contribution in this area . there be legitimate use of nda , but I want to be clear — we have hear too many example of this today — that they should not be use to silence victim of harassment or other misconduct . I understand that hon . member want to ensure equal protection in relation to nda concern harassment across the economy , and I absolutely hear what they have say . however , we have to acknowledge that this would be a far - reach change , and it would be to take a significant step without properly engage with worker , employer and stakeholder , and assess the impact on sector across the economy . I want to reiterate that I recognise that non - disclosure agreement be an important question that warrant further consideration , and we will continue to look at the issue raise . my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley say that she want I to go far , and I look forward to engage with she and with organisation such as can ' t buy my silence . new clause 30 , in the name of the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , would give employee who be special constable the right to time off work to carry out their voluntary police duty . I join he in pay tribute to special constable , who make an invaluable contribution to police across the country . it would not be appropriate , however , to support additional legislation on this matter without a comprehensive analysis on the impact such a change could bring to policing . as the hon . Gentleman know , we debate it in Committee and my official have be in discussion with colleague at the Home Office to learn more about the topic . further engagement be continue with the staff association for special constable and the Association of Special Constabulary officer . I recognise that the legislation be now half a century old and need a considerable look . we can not support the amendment tonight , but I be glad that there be at least one member on the conservative Benches who support increase employment right . turn to new clause 7 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , I want to start by recognise the key role that paternal leave play in support work family . the arrival of a child be transformative for all parent . the Government understand and value the vital role that father and partner play in raise child , and we want to support they to do that . I commend my hon . friend for her work in this area . we already have a statutory framework in place that guarantee eligible employ father and partner a protect period of paternity leave , ensure that they can not be require to work while claim that leave , or be discriminate against by their employer for take it . however , I recognise what my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) say about the limitation on those protection . I also pay tribute to she for her work on this issue . paternity leave be available to the father of the child or the mother ' s partner irrespective of their gender , and the leave can be take by the father or partner at any point in the first year follow the child ' s birth or adoption . I acknowledge the wide point make by my hon . friend the Member for Darlington , which be that we need to do more to ensure that the parental leave system as a whole support work family . as a government , we have commit to do that . I recently meet the Dad Shift , Pregnant then Screwed and Working Families to discuss that very issue . through the Bill , we be make paternity leave and unpaid parental leave day one right , mean that employee will be eligible to give notice of their intent to take leave from their first day of employment , remove any continuity of service requirement . that bring they both into line with maternity leave and adoption leave , simplify the system . we be also commit to review the parental leave system . the review will be conduct separately from this Bill . work be already under way across Government on plan for its delivery and will commence before Royal Assent . we be scope the work already under way across the Department for Work and Pensions , the Department for Business and Trade , and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . we of course want and expect to engage widely with stakeholder as part of that review process , and I would expect my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow to engage with we in that respect . new clause 6 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , would partially reinstate , to the Equality Act 2010 , a similar measure that be sponsor by the previous Labour Government . this Government continue to have sympathy with its aim . we all know that the statutory questionnaire be sometimes find to be a helpful , informative tool . while the Government will not support new clause 6 , we will be give close consideration to the impact of the repeal of the statutory questionnaire and any step that may be need during this Parliament . I be very pleased to hear confirmation that the review into parental right , which I understand will begin in June , will go ahead . the Minister talk about stakeholder . will he confirm whether they will include our trade union colleague , because many of we be very happy to withdraw our amendment tonight on the basis that work people can be part of the conversation ? I would fully expect we to consult with all relevant party , so I do not think my hon . friend need have any worry in that respect . I pay tribute to two people who have be instrumental in shape our thought on this issue : my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) . they table amendment on employment status . it be important to say that we be take action in respect of those who work for umbrella company . we have be clear that some reform in the plan to make work pay will take long to undertake and implement . we see consult on a simple two - part framework as a long - term goal , but I assure they both that I remain committed to that . I also hear what my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East say in relation to his concern about fire and rehire . we will be look very closely at how our reform work in practice . new clause 17 seek to create a legal definition of kinship care to be use to establish eligibility for kinship care leave . new clause 18 aim to establish a new kinship care leave entitlement for employ kinship carer , with a minimum of 52 week of leave available for eligible employee . I be pleased to say that the Government ' s Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill will , for the first time , create a legal definition of kinship care for the purpose of specific measure in the Bill . by define kinship care in law , the legislation will ensure that all local authority have a clear and consistent understanding of what constitute kinship care . I be also pleased to say that the Government have recently announce a £ 40 million package to trial a new kinship allowance . this be the single big investment make by this Government in kinship care to date and will enable child to be raise within their community by their extended family . new clause 10 — another liberal Democrat new clause table by the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) — which we debate in Committee , would commit the Government to introduce an entitlement for employee with caring responsibility to be pay their usual wage while take carer ' s leave . while we have stress the Government ' s commitment to support employ unpaid carer and I have be engage with Ministers and relevant body on the matter , the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 only recently give employ carer a new right to time off work to care for a dependant with a long - term care need , so we be review this measure and consider whether further support be require . I recognise that many of their amendment and new clause come from a good place , but the Liberal Democrats have to decide whether they be go to be Manchester United or Manchester City ; their speech be litter with concern about the increase in cost from the Bill , yet every new clause and amendment seem only to add to those cost . I understand that they be come from a good place , but they have to decide whether or not they support the Bill . I hope they can make that decision before tomorrow night . at least the Liberal Democrats be here , unlike the new kid on the block , who be absent from the Benches behind they — I pay tribute to they for actually turn up today . I will now address the point raise by the Opposition on harassment , as set out in amendment 288 and 289 , in the name of the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) . those amendment seek either to exclude the hospitality sector and sport venue from the Bill ' s obligation for employer not to permit the harassment of their employee by third party or to remove clause 18 altogether , thus deprive employee of protection from all type of harassment by third party under the Equality Act . let we be clear : this Government be commit to make workplace and working condition free from harassment , and we must therefore protect employee from third - party harassment . I want to underline two important point in relation to clause 18 . first , on the expectation it place on employer , I would like to assure the House that employer can not and be not expect to police or control every action of third party ; instead , employer simply need to do what be reasonable . what be reasonable will , of course , depend on the specific circumstance of the employer . far , the step that an employer can reasonably take in respect of the action of third party in its workplace be clearly more limited than the step it can take in respect of its employee , and employment tribunal will , of course , take that into account when consider the fact of the case . the second point relate to the threshold for what constitute harassment . far too often , I have hear objection to clause 18 implying that employer will be liable if their staff be offend by comment make by third party , which be not the case at all — a fact reflect , I think , by the Conservatives support a similar measure in the previous Parliament . in his opening remark , the shadow Minister ask what evidence there be that this clause be need . the NHS staff survey for 2023 reveal that a quarter of all staff have suffer harassment , bullying or abuse from patient or service user , while a Unite survey say that 56 % of its member have suffer third - party harassment . presumably that be why ukhospitality , in its write evidence to the Bill Committee , say that it support the measure in principle . I will work with they to ensure that we protect everyone in the sector , because I believe that everyone who work in this country deserve protection from harassment . I think it be incredible that the opposition can not see a problem with argue against that . I will turn to new clause 105 on substitution clause , which be table by the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) . I think it be fair to say that we be aware of the risk . I have be work closely with the Minister for Border Security on illegal working by irregular migrant in the gig economy and the role that substitution clause play in facilitate that . we will continue to work closely with the Home Office on this issue . the opposition also table new clause 87 , which seek to require the Secretary of State to have regard to the UK ' s international competitiveness and economic growth when make any regulation under part 1 and 2 of the Bill . the Government be already laser - focused on this key objective . our plan to make work pay be a pro - growth package and set out an ambitious agenda to deliver our plan for change by ensure that employment right be fit for a modern economy , empower work people and contribute to economic growth . the plan will bring the UK back into line with our international competitor and directly address our low - growth , low - productivity and low - pay economy . [ interruption . ] conservative Members may be laugh , but they be the people who deliver that economy for so many year . international competitor and growth be at the heart of what we do . we will pay close attention to the potential impact as we develop regulation to implement the measure in the Bill . on small business support , I remind member that I have a meeting with representative from Inkwell , who say that introduce these change will help create a happy and productive workplace and create a level playing field for employer . that be exactly what we want to achieve with the Bill . we understand that the good business want to look after their staff and that treat they well be good for business , good for worker and good for the wide economy . the Opposition ' s narrow view seem to be that anything that be good for worker be automatically bad for business . we absolutely reject that analysis . in conclusion , give people a baseline of security and respect at work be fundamental . it be clear that we need a change from the system where people do not know what hour they will get from one week to the next , where people with caring responsibility never get the same benefit of flexibility as their employer , where a minority of rogue employer can fire and rehire at will , and where care worker and teaching assistant have all be undervalue for far too long . it be time to end these injustice . it be time to make work pay . debate interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the clause be read a second time . question agree to . the Deputy Speaker then put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 33 - collective agreement : contract out " ( 1 ) the Employment Rights Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 27bua ( insert by section ( Agency worker : guarantee hour and right relate to shift ) ) insert — ' CHAPTER 4b - collective agreement : contract out ' chapter 4b 27bub Zero hour worker , etc ( 1 ) this section apply in relation to — ( a ) a duty impose on an employer in respect of a worker , and ( b ) a right confer on a worker in respect of an employer , by or under any provision of chapter 2 , 3 or 4 . ( 2 ) the duty or right be exclude if — ( a ) the worker be employ by the employer under a worker ' s contract ( " the contract " ) , ( b ) a relevant collective agreement contain — ( i ) term that expressly exclude the duty or right , and ( ii ) term that expressly replace the exclude duty or right , ( c ) the term within paragraph ( b ) ( ii ) be incorporate into the contract , and ( d ) the employer notify the worker in writing of the incorporation and effect of those term . ( 3 ) a relevant collective agreement be a collective agreement that be — ( a ) in writing , and ( b ) make by or on behalf of — ( i ) one or more trade union which each have a certificate of independence , and ( ii ) the worker ' s employer . 27buc Agency worker ( 1 ) this section apply in relation to — ( a ) a duty impose on a hirer or a work - find agency in respect of an agency worker , and ( b ) a right confer on an agency worker in respect of a hirer or a work - find agency , by or under any provision of chapter 4A ( include Schedule A1 ) . ( 2 ) the duty or right be exclude if — ( a ) the agency worker be supply to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hirer by virtue of a worker ' s contract ( " the contract " ) that the agency worker have with another person ( " the other party " ) , ( b ) a relevant collective agreement contain — ( i ) term that expressly exclude the duty or right , and ( ii ) term that expressly replace the exclude duty or right , ( c ) the term within paragraph ( b ) ( ii ) be incorporate into the contract , and ( d ) the other party notifie the agency worker in writing of the incorporation and effect of those term . ( 3 ) a relevant collective agreement be a collective agreement that be — ( a ) in writing , and ( b ) make by or on behalf of — ( i ) one or more trade union which each have a certificate of independence , and ( ii ) the other party . 27bud supplementary provision ( 1 ) for the purpose of section 27BUB and 27buc , it do not matter whether — ( a ) term in a collective agreement that expressly replace a duty or right relate to the same subject matter as the duty or right , or ( b ) a collective agreement cease to be in force after the term mention in section 27bub ( 2 ) ( b ) ( ii ) or 27buc ( 2 ) ( b ) ( ii ) be incorporate into the contract ( within the meaning of section 27BUB or 27buc , as the case may be ) , provide the term continue to be incorporate . ( 2 ) where the duty to make a guarantee hour offer under chapter 2 or 4A be exclude by virtue of term that be incorporate into a contract with a worker or , as the case may be , an agency worker , as mention in section 27bub ( 2 ) ( c ) or 27buc ( 2 ) ( c ) , during the offer period , the duty cease to apply . ( 3 ) where — ( a ) the duty to make a guarantee hour offer under chapter 2 or 4A be exclude by virtue of term that be incorporate into a contract with a worker or , as the case may be , an agency worker , as mention in section 27bub ( 2 ) ( c ) or 27buc ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( b ) a guarantee hour offer have already be make in compliance with the duty , and ( c ) the worker or agency worker have not accept the offer , the person who make the offer may withdraw it during the response period by give a notice to the worker or agency worker . ( 4 ) the notice must include a statement to the effect that the offer be withdraw in consequence of the exclusion of the duty to make a guarantee hour offer as a result of the incorporation into the worker ' s or agency worker ' s contract , as mention in section 27bub ( 2 ) ( c ) or 27buc ( 2 ) ( c ) , of term contain in a collective agreement that expressly replace that duty . ( 5 ) a worker or an agency worker to whom a notice be give in reliance on subsection ( 3 ) may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that subsection ( 3 ) do not permit the notice to be give . ( 6 ) where a complaint be present under subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) by a worker , section 27BH and 27bi apply in relation to the complaint as they apply in relation to a complaint under section 27bg ( 5 ) ( b ) ; ( b ) by an agency worker , paragraph 9 and 10 of Schedule A1 apply in relation to the complaint as they apply in relation to a complaint under paragraph 7 ( 7 ) ( b ) of that Schedule . ( 7 ) subsection ( 8 ) apply where — ( a ) the duty to make a guarantee hour offer under chapter 2 or 4A be exclude by virtue of term that be incorporate into a contract with a worker or , as the case may be , an agency worker , as mention in section 27bub ( 2 ) ( c ) or 27buc ( 2 ) ( c ) , and ( b ) the duty cease to be exclude as a result of the term cease to be incorporate into the contract ( include where the contract cease to be in force ) . ( 8 ) in apply chapter 2 or 4A for the purpose of the duty after it have cease to be exclude — ( a ) in any case where there be a reference period in relation to the duty as it have effect before be exclude , that reference period be to be disregard , ( b ) in relation to a worker and the worker ' s employer , section 27ba ( 5 ) and 27bf ( 3 ) have effect as if the first day on which the worker be employ by the employer be the day after the day on which the term cease to be incorporate , and ( c ) in relation to an agency worker and a hirer for and under the supervision and direction of whom the agency worker work , paragraph 1 ( 5 ) and 6 ( 3 ) of Schedule A1 have effect as if the first day on which the agency worker so work be the day after the day on which the term cease to be incorporate . 27bue Regulations ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision for the purpose of section 27BUB or 27buc . ( 2 ) the regulation may , in particular , make provision about — ( a ) the effect on a duty in Chapters 2 to 4A of term be or cease to be incorporate as mention in section 27bub ( 2 ) ( c ) or 27buc ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( b ) the form and manner in which a notice under section 27bud ( 3 ) be to be give , and ( c ) when a notice under section 27bud ( 3 ) be to be treat as have be give . 27BUF Interpretation ( 1 ) term use in this chapter that be use in — ( a ) Chapters 2 to 4 ( right relate to zero hour worker , etc ) , or ( b ) chapter 4A ( include Schedule A1 ) ( right relate to agency worker ) , have the same meaning as in those chapter or that chapter ( include that Schedule ) . ( 2 ) in this chapter , " certificate of independence " mean a certificate issue under section 6 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 . ( 3 ) in section 203 ( restriction on contract out ) , in subsection ( 2 ) , before paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) do not apply to term of a collective agreement or contract that exclude a duty or right by virtue of provision make by or under chapter 4b of Part 2A , " . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause add a new clause ( intend to go after NC32 ) which provide for the exclusion of duty or right under new Chapters 2 to 4A of Part 2A of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( insert by clause 1 to 3 of the Bill and that new clause ) under the term of collective agreement . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 34 - collective redundancy consultation : protect period " ( 1 ) chapter 2 of Part 4 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( procedure for handle redundancy ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 189 ( duty to consult representative : complaint and protective award ) , in subsection ( 4 ) , in the word after paragraph ( b ) , for ' 90 ' substitute ' 180 ' . ( 3 ) in section 197 ( power to vary provision ) , in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , for ' period ' substitute ' period ' . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause would allow an employment tribunal to impose a high protective award on an employer who be in breach of the requirement to consult representative in a collective redundancy . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 35 - duty to keep record relate to annual leave " ( 1 ) the Working Time Regulations 1998 ( S . I . 1998 / 1833 ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part 2 ( right and obligation concern working time ) , after regulation 16a insert — ' record relate to annual leave entitlement 16b . — ( 1 ) an employer must — ( a ) keep record which be adequate to show whether the employer have comply with the entitlement confer by regulation 13 ( 1 ) , 13a ( 1 ) , 15b ( 2 ) and 16 ( 1 ) and the requirement in regulation 14 ( 2 ) and ( 6 ) and 15e ( 2 ) ; ( b ) retain such record for six year from the date on which they be make . ( 2 ) the record refer to in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) may be create , maintain and keep in such manner and format as the employer reasonably think fit . ' ( 3 ) in regulation 29 ( offence ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) , after " the relevant requirement " insert " or with regulation 16b ( 1 ) " . ( 4 ) in regulation 29c ( restriction on institution of proceeding in England and Wales ) — ( a ) the exist provision become paragraph ( 1 ) ; ( b ) after that paragraph insert — ' ( 2 ) but paragraph ( 1 ) do not prevent the Secretary of State from institute proceeding in England and Wales for an offence under regulation 29 ( 1 ) in respect of a failure to comply with regulation 16b ( 1 ) ( duty to keep record ) . ' " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause impose an obligation on employer to keep record to show that they have comply with certain entitlement confer on worker by the Working Time Regulations 1998 in relation to annual leave . subsection ( 3 ) of the new clause make it an offence , punishable with a fine , to fail to comply with this duty . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 36 - extension of regulation of employment business " in section 13 of the Employment Agencies Act 1973 ( interpretation ) , for subsection ( 3 ) substitute — ' ( 3 ) for the purpose of this Act " employment business " mean the business ( whether or not carry on with a view to profit and whether or not carry on in conjunction with any other business ) of participate in employment arrangement . ( 3A ) " employment arrangement " mean arrangement under which person who be , or be intend to be , in the employment of a person be , or be intend to be , supply to act for , and under the control of , another person in any capacity . ( 3b ) " participate in " employment arrangement mean do any of the following in connection with the arrangement — ( a ) be an employer of the person who be , or be intend to be , supply under the arrangement ; ( b ) pay for , or receive or forward payment for , the service of those person , in consideration of directly or indirectly receive a fee from those person ; ( c ) supply those person ( whether or not under the arrangement ) ; ( d ) take step with a view to do anything mention in paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) . ' " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause would expand the scope of the Employment Agencies Act 1973 to cover other type of business that participate in arrangement under which person be supply by their employer to work for other person ( such as " umbrella company " ) . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 37 - power to establish Social Care Negotiating Body " ( 1 ) for the purpose of this chapter , the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for there to be a body in England know as the Adult Social Care Negotiating Body for England . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this chapter , the Welsh Ministers may , with the agreement of the Secretary of State , by regulation provide for there to be a body in Wales know as the Social Care Negotiating Body for Wales . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this chapter , the Scottish Ministers may , with the agreement of the Secretary of State , by regulation provide for there to be a body in Scotland know as the Social Care Negotiating Body for Scotland . ( 4 ) any power of the Welsh Ministers or the Scottish Ministers to make regulation under the remain provision of this chapter may not be exercise without the agreement of the Secretary of State . ( 5 ) in this chapter — ' the appropriate authority ' — ( a ) in relation to the Adult Social Care Negotiating Body for England , mean the Secretary of State ; ( b ) in relation to the Social Care Negotiating Body for Wales , mean the Welsh Ministers ; ( c ) in relation to the Social Care Negotiating Body for Scotland , mean the Scottish Ministers ; ' negotiate body ' mean a body establish by regulation under this section . " — ( Justin Madders ) this new clause would enable the Welsh Ministers and the Scottish Ministers , with the agreement of the Secretary of State , to establish a Social Care Negotiating Body for Wales and for Scotland respectively . as a result , chapter 2 of Part 3 be amend to enable regulation - make power confer on the Secretary of State by chapter 2 also to be exercisable by the Welsh Ministers and the Scottish Ministers . these power may not be exercise without the Secretary of State ' s agreement . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 38 - Agency worker who be not otherwise " worker " " ( 1 ) this section apply in any case where an individual ( the ' agency worker ' ) — ( a ) be supply by a person ( the ' agent ' ) to do work for another ( the ' principal ' ) under a contract or other arrangement make between the agent and the principal , ( b ) be not , as respect that work , a worker , because of the absence of a worker ' s contract between the individual and the agent or the principal , and ( c ) be not a party to a contract under which the agency worker undertake to do the work for another party to the contract whose status be , by virtue of the contract , that of a client or customer of any profession or business undertaking carry on by the individual . ( 2 ) the provision of this chapter ( other than this section ) have effect as if there be a worker ' s contract for the doing of the work by the agency worker make between the agency worker and — ( a ) whichever of the agent and the principal be responsible for pay the agency worker in respect of the work , or ( b ) if neither the agent nor the principal be so responsible , whichever of they pay the agency worker in respect of the work . ( 3 ) for the purpose of Part 2 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( protection of wage ) , as it apply in relation to the entitlement confer by section 38 ( 2 ) and 39 ( 5 ) — ( a ) if at any time the agency worker and the person who , as a result of this section , be the person ' s employer for the purpose of this chapter would not ( apart from this subsection ) be regard as the worker and the employer for the purpose of that part , they be to be so regard ; ( b ) it be to be assume that there be a worker ' s contract between those person at that time . ( 4 ) if there would ( in the absence of this section ) be no worker ' s contract between the agency worker and the person who , as a result of this section , be the person ' s employer for the purpose of this chapter , for the purpose of enforce any entitlement confer by section 38 ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) or 39 ( 5 ) or ( 6 ) in civil proceeding on a claim in contract it be to be assume that there be ( or be ) such a contract between those person . ( 5 ) any reference in this section to do work include a reference to perform service , and ' work ' be to be read accordingly . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new clause reproduce the provision previously find in clause 46 ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) that ensure that the provision of chapter 2 of Part 3 also apply in relation to agency worker who be not otherwise " worker " as define by clause 46 . it also ensure that , where an agency worker do not have a worker ' s contract , this do not prevent the agency worker from bring a claim in an employment tribunal under Part 2 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , or in civil proceeding on a claim in contract , for a failure to pay the remuneration to which the agency worker would be entitle as a result of an agreement or regulation under chapter 2 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 10 - carer ' s leave : remuneration " ( 1 ) in section 80 k of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , omit subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , " term and condition of employment " include — ( a ) matter connect with an employee ' s employment whether or not they arise under the contract of employment , and ( b ) term and condition about remuneration . " " — ( Steve Darling . ) this new clause would make Carer ' s leave a pay entitlement . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Seamus Logan James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Brendan o ' Hara Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Charlie Maynard Bobby Dean Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 95 , Noes 323 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 30 - special constable : right to time off for public duty " ( 1 ) the Employment Rights Act 1996 be amend be follow . ( 2 ) in section 50 ( right to time off for public duty ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) an employer shall permit an employee who be a special constable , appoint in accordance with section 27 of the Police Act 1996 , section 9 of the Police and Fire Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2012 or section 25 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003 , to take time off during the employee ' s work hour for the purpose of perform their duty . ( 1b ) in section ( 1A ) , " duty " mean any activity under the direction of a chief officer of police . ' " — ( Sir Ashley Fox . ) this new clause give employee who be special constable the right to time off to carry out their police duty . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 189 , Noes 324 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 87 - Regulations under Part 1 and 2 " when make regulation under Parts 1 and 2 of this Act , the Secretary of State must have regard to the follow objective — ( a ) the international competitiveness of the economy of the United Kingdom ; and ( b ) the economic growth of the United Kingdom in the medium to long term . " — ( Greg Smith . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State , when make regulation under Part 1 and 2 of the Bill , to have regard to the objective of the international competitiveness of the economy and its growth in the medium to long term . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 106 , Noes 340 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 - right to guarantee hour Amendments make : 8 , page 3 , line 5 , leave out " section 27bw for power to make provision about " and insert " Part 1 of Schedule a1 for provision about guarantee hour and " . this amendment be consequential on NC32 and NS1 . amendment 9 , page 3 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) if , during a reference period — ( a ) a worker be employ by an employer under one or more worker ' s contract of the type describe in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) ( i ) and one or more worker ' s contract of the type describe in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) ( ii ) , and ( b ) the hour that the worker work under the worker ' s contract , or the worker ' s contract , that be of the type describe in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) ( ii ) do not exceed the minimum number of hour , the worker ' s contract , or the worker ' s contract , that be of the type describe in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) ( ii ) be to be disregard in the application of this chapter ( other than this subsection ) in relation to the worker and the reference period ( and accordingly that worker ' s contract , or those worker ' s contract , be to be treat as not exist ) . " this amendment deal with the possibility of a worker be employ by an employer during a reference period under a zero hour contract or zero hour arrangement and under another type of contract where the requirement on the employer to make work available be limit to a number of hour not exceed a number specify in regulation . amendment 10 , page 4 , line 8 , leave out " make work available to the qualifying worker " and insert " provide the qualifying worker with work , and the qualifying worker to do work , " this amendment confirm that the number of hour in a guarantee hour offer be hour that the employer will be require to provide and the qualifying worker will be require to work . amendment 11 , page 4 , line 18 , leave out from " the " to " or " in line 20 and insert " offer number of hour be to be provide and work , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 10 . amendment 12 , page 4 , line 22 , leave out from " the " to " and " in line 24 and insert " offer number of hour be to be provide and work , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 10 . amendment 13 , page 4 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) where no regulation be in force under subsection ( 2 ) that apply in relation to an offer by an employer to a qualifying worker , the offer be a guarantee hour offer for the purpose of this chapter only if it also propose term and condition relate to when the offer number of hour be to be provide and work ( which need not be on particular day of the week , or at particular time on those day , or by reference to a particular working pattern of day or time of day ) . " this amendment cater for the scenario where there be no regulation in force under propose section 27bb ( 2 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 or none that apply to the offer in question . in this scenario , a guarantee hour offer will still have to propose term and condition relate to when the worker will work the guarantee hour even though it will not have to set out particular day and time , or a particular working pattern . amendment 14 , page 4 , line 32 , leave out " , whether an " and insert " that apply in relation to an offer , whether the " . this amendment make a minor drafting change because regulation under propose section 27bb ( 2 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 may make provision subject to exception ( see propose section 27bx of that Act insert by clause 4 ) . amendment 15 , page 4 , line 42 , at end insert " , and ( c ) the qualifying worker do not work for the employer under any other worker ' s contract during the period begin with the first day of the relevant reference period and end with the day the offer be make . " this amendment add a further condition that must be satisfied if a guarantee hour offer be to take the form of an offer to vary a worker ' s term and condition of employment as oppose to an offer to enter into a new worker ' s contract . amendment 16 , page 5 , line 10 , after " ( 2 ) " insert " or subsection ( 1 ) and ( 3A ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 13 . amendment 17 , page 5 , line 17 , after " ( 2 ) " insert " or subsection ( 1 ) and ( 3A ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 13 . amendment 18 , page 6 , line 27 , after " ( 2 ) " insert " or section 27bb ( 1 ) and ( 3A ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 13 . amendment 19 , page 11 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( ) where — ( a ) an employer be permit by section 27bud ( 3 ) to withdraw a guarantee hour offer ( withdrawal of offer follow incorporation of term of collective agreement ) , and ( b ) the employer withdraw the offer by give notice under that section , subsection ( 1 ) of this section cease to apply in relation to the offer when the notice be give . " this amendment clarify that where an offer be withdraw as a result of the duty to make the offer be exclude by term of a collective agreement that be incorporate into a worker ' s contract the worker can not accept the offer . amendment 20 , page 12 , line 39 , leave out from begin to end of line 2 on page 13 and insert — " ( i ) where regulation be in force under subsection ( 2 ) of section 27BB that apply in relation to the offer , subsection ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) of that section ( read with any regulation in force under subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) or ( b ) of that section ) , or ( ii ) where no regulation be in force under subsection ( 2 ) of section 27BB that apply in relation to the offer , subsection ( 1 ) and ( 3A ) of that section ( read with any regulation in force under subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) of that section ) . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 13 . it also make a minor drafting change ( see the explanatory statement for amendment 14 ) . amendment 21 , page 13 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) a worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that — ( a ) the duty impose by section 27ba ( 1 ) apply to the worker ' s employer in relation to the worker and a particular reference period , but ( b ) the guarantee hour offer that the employer have make to the worker in relation to that reference period be on term require the employer to provide , and the worker to do , less work than would have be the case if the employer have not , during that reference period — ( i ) limit ( by whatever mean , include termination of a worker ' s contract or an arrangement ) the number of hour of work make available to the worker , or ( ii ) decide to make work available to the worker in the way that the employer do , for the sole or main purpose of be able to comply with the duty by make such a reduce offer . ( 3b ) a worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the duty impose by section 27ba ( 1 ) would have apply to the worker ' s employer in relation to the worker and a particular reference period if the employer have not , during that reference period — ( a ) limited ( by whatever mean , include termination of a worker ' s contract or an arrangement ) the number of hour of work make available to the worker , or ( b ) decide to make work available to the worker in the way that the employer do , for the sole or main purpose of prevent the worker from satisfy , in relation to that reference period , one or more of the condition in section 27ba ( 3 ) ( b ) to ( d ) . " this amendment add additional ground of complaint to the one list in propose section 27bg of the Employment Rights Act 1996 to cater for case where an employer have seek to manipulate or avoid their obligation to make a guarantee hour offer . amendment 22 , page 13 , line 14 , leave out " or ( 3 ) " and insert " , ( 3 ) or ( 3A ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 21 . amendment 23 , page 13 , line 17 , leave out from " be " to end of line 19 and insert " — ( i ) treat as have be withdraw by virtue of section 27BD ( 2 ) or regulation under section 27BD ( 6 ) , or ( ii ) withdraw in accordance with section 27bud ( 3 ) ( withdrawal of offer follow incorporation of term of collective agreement ) . " this amendment be consequential on NC33 . Amendment 24 , page 14 , line 6 , after " 27bg ( 3 ) " insert " or ( 3A ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 21 . it have the effect of provide for a six month time limit ( from the making of the guarantee hour offer ) to apply in relation to complaint under the subsection ( 3A ) insert by that amendment . Amendment 25 , page 14 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under section 27bg ( 3b ) unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after what would have be the last day of the offer period ( as define in section 27bg ( 7 ) ) if the duty impose by section 27ba ( 1 ) have apply . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 21 . amendment 26 , page 15 , line 8 , leave out from " be " to end of line 10 and insert " — ( a ) where the complaint be under section 27bg ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 5 ) or ( 6 ) , such number of week ' pay as the Secretary of State may specify in regulation ; ( b ) where the complaint be under section 27bg ( 3A ) or ( 3b ) , such amount as the Secretary of State may specify in regulation . " — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 21 . clause 2 - shift : right to reasonable notice Amendments make : 27 , page 15 , line 39 , at end insert — " and the shift be to be work under the contract refer to in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) . " this amendment clarify that a shift of which reasonable notice must be give under propose new section 27BJ ( 1 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 be one that be to be work under a contract refer to in that provision . amendment 28 , page 16 , leave out line 9 to 12 and insert — " ( c ) the shift be to be work under that contract but no part of it correspond to the time of a shift provide for by the contract as describe in paragraph ( b ) . " propose new section 27BJ ( 2 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 be about employer give reasonable notice of shift to worker who have contract of a specify description that guarantee some work and provide when some or all of that work will be do . this amendment limit the notice requirement to shift that be to happen at time that do not overlap with the time provide for by the contract . but see also amendment 29 . amendment 29 , page 16 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) where — ( a ) the condition in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) be meet in relation to a worker and a worker ' s contract , ( b ) the worker be to work ( or be work ) a shift under that contract all or part of which correspond to the time of a shift ( a " guarantee shift " ) provide for by the contract as describe in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , ( c ) the employer request or require the worker to start early , or end later , than be provide for by the contract ( as describe in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) ) in relation to the guarantee shift , and ( d ) the early start or late end be to result in an additional number of hour be work above the number of hour to be work in the guarantee shift , the additional hour be to be treat for the purpose of this chapter as a separate shift ( and accordingly as one that meet the condition in subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) ) . " this amendment will produce the result that worker who have contract of a specify description that guarantee some work and provide when some or all of that work will be do will be entitle to reasonable notice of extension of their guarantee shift . amendment 30 , page 17 , line 35 , leave out from " see " to end of line 36 and insert " Part 2 of Schedule a1 for provision about right of agency worker to reasonable notice in relation to shift ) . " this amendment be consequential on NC32 and NS1 . Amendment 31 , page 17 , line 37 , leave out " , or a long shift , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 29 and 33 . amendment 32 , page 17 , line 41 , leave out from " apply " to end of line 42 and insert " ( even though the condition in section 27bk ( 1 ) have not be meet ) . " this amendment clarify the effect of propose section 27bl ( 2 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 . amendment 33 , page 17 , line 42 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) section 27BJ ( 5a ) apply for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) of this section as if section 27BJ ( 5A ) ( c ) refer to what the worker suggest rather than what the employer request or require . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 29 . Amendment 34 , page 18 , line 2 , after " request " insert " ( a " multi - worker request " ) " this amendment be consequential on amendment 35 . amendment 35 , page 18 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) for the purpose of section 27bk , where an employer have make a multi - worker request to a worker in relation to a shift , reference to the cancellation of the shift include the worker not be need to work the shift because one or more other have agree to work it . " this amendment clarify how the provision in propose section 27bk of the Employment Rights Act 1996 about cancellation of a shift be to operate where the request to work the shift be make to more worker than be need to work it . amendment 36 , page 18 , leave out line 6 to 17 . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment remove propose section 27bl ( 4 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 from the Bill . this provision be no long consider necessary ; where appropriate , a request will in any event be treat as a request to work a new shift . clause 3 - right to payment for cancel , move and curtail shift Amendments make : 37 , page 20 , leave out line 28 to 40 and insert — " ( 3 ) a shift be also a " qualifying shift " , in relation to a worker and an employer , if — ( a ) it would be ( or would have be ) work , or be be work , by the worker for the employer under a worker ' s contract of a specified description , ( b ) the contract provide on what day and at what time , or in accordance with what pattern of day and time , that work , or some of that work , be to be do by the worker , and ( c ) no part of the shift correspond to the time of a shift provide for by the contract as describe in paragraph ( b ) . ( 4 ) where — ( a ) the condition in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) and ( b ) be meet in relation to a shift , ( b ) all or part of the shift correspond to the time of a shift ( a " guarantee shift " ) provide for by the contract as describe in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) , ( c ) the employer request or require , or the worker suggest , that the worker start early , or end later , than be provide for by the contract ( as describe in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) ) in relation to the guarantee shift , and ( d ) the early start or late end be to result in an additional number of hour be work above the number of hour to be work in the guarantee shift , the additional hour be to be treat for the purpose of this chapter as a separate shift ( and accordingly as a " qualifying shift " ) . " this amendment be the equivalent for clause 3 of amendment 28 , 29 and 33 to clause 2 . amendment 38 , page 21 , leave out line 41 to 44 and insert — " ( 10 ) in this chapter , reference to a request to work a shift make by an employer to a worker include a request ( a " multi - worker request " ) make by the employer to the worker and one or more other in circumstance where the employer do not need the shift to be work by all of those to whom the request be make . " this amendment be partly consequential on amendment 39 and 41 . it be also be make for reason of consistency with the equivalent provision in clause 2 . amendment 39 , page 21 , line 44 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) for the purpose of this chapter , where an employer have make a multi - worker request to a worker in relation to a shift , reference to the cancellation of the shift ( however express ) include the worker not be need to work the shift because one or more other have agree to work it . " this amendment clarify how the provision in propose section 27bp of the Employment Rights Act 1996 about cancellation of a shift be to operate where the request to work the shift be make to more worker than be need to work it . amendment 40 , page 23 , line 7 , leave out from " see " to end of line 8 and insert " Part 3 of Schedule a1 for provision about right of agency worker to payment for cancel , move and curtail shift ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC32 and NS1 . Amendment 41 , page 23 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( aa ) in relation to the cancellation , movement or curtailment of a shift that an employer have request a worker to work , unless the worker reasonably believe , whether on agree to work the shift or at some later time before the cancellation , movement or curtailment , that they would be need to work the shift ; " this amendment produce the result that , in case within propose section 27bp ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , a worker will not be entitle to a payment for a short notice cancellation , movement or curtailment of a shift unless at some point prior to that they reasonably believe they would be need to work the shift . amendment 42 , page 23 , line 14 , leave out from " regulation " to " the " in line 15 and insert " have produce the effect that the employer be not require to make " . this amendment make a drafting change to propose section 27BR ( 2 ) ( a ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 for reason of consistency . amendment 43 , page 23 , leave out line 19 and 20 and insert — " ( a ) any information the disclosure of which by the employer would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether a disclosure would do so , the duty impose by that subsection be to be take into account ) ; " . this amendment have the effect that personal datum may be include in a notice give by an employer under propose section 27BR ( 2 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 but only in so far as the disclosure of the information would not contravene data protection legislation . amendment 44 , page 23 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) " the data protection legislation " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 9 ) of that Act ) . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 43 . Amendment 45 , page 25 , line 2 , leave out " be inadequate or untrue " and insert " — ( i ) do not refer to any provision of the regulation ; ( ii ) do not contain an explanation or contain an explanation that be inadequate or untrue . " this amendment set out what a worker can present a complaint about in relation to a notice under propose section 27BR ( 2 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 . amendment 46 , page 25 , leave out line 25 to 29 . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment remove propose section 27bt ( 7 ) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 from the Bill . this provision be no long consider necessary and , depend on how the power in propose section 27BR ( 1 ) ( b ) be exercise , it might not have produce an appropriate outcome in some case . clause 4 - amendment relate to section 1 to 3 amendment make : 47 , page 26 , line 17 , leave out from first " the " to end of line 19 and insert " mean give by section 27bua ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC32 . Amendment 48 , page 27 , leave out line 9 to 14 . see the explanatory statement for NC32 . Amendment 49 , page 27 , line 22 , after " 3 " insert " and ( Agency worker : guarantee hour and right relate to shift ) " . this amendment be consequential on NC32 . Amendment 50 , page 27 , line 22 , after " 3 " insert " and ( collective agreement : contract out ) " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC33 . clause 7 - right to request flexible working Amendment make : 79 , page 29 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) in section 202 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( national security ) , in subsection ( 2 ) , after paragraph ( e ) insert — " ( eza ) part 8a , " . " — ( Justin Madders . ) clause 7 of the Bill amend part 8a of the Employment Rights Act 1996 to require an employer who refuse an employee ' s application for flexible working to explain why the employer consider it be reasonable to refuse the application . this amendment would enable the disclosure of information under Part 8a to be restrict where it would be contrary to the interest of national security . clause 9 - statutory sick pay in Great Britain : low earning limit etc amendment make : 80 , page 30 , line 1 , leave out " £ 116 . 75 " and insert " £ 118 . 75 " . clause 9 in its current form amend section 157 ( 1 ) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 so that the weekly rate of statutory sick pay in Great Britain would be the low of £ 116 . 75 and a percentage of an employee ' s normal earning to be set out in regulation . this amendment , together with the Minister ' s other amendment to clause 9 , would mean that the weekly rate of statutory sick pay in Great Britain would be the low of £ 118 . 75 and 80 % of an employee ' s weekly earning . the change from £ 116 . 75 to £ 118 . 75 be to account for annual uprating that be expect to come into effect on 6 April 2025 . Amendment 81 , page 30 , line 2 , leave out " the prescribed percentage " and insert " 80 % " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 80 . Amendment 82 , page 30 , line 4 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . — ( Justin Madders . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 80 . clause 11 - statutory sick pay in Northern Ireland : low earning limit etc amendment make : 83 , page 30 , line 34 , leave out " £ 116 . 75 " and insert " £ 118 . 75 " . clause 11 in its current form amend section 153 ( 1 ) of the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 so that the weekly rate of statutory sick pay in Northern Ireland would be the low of £ 116 . 75 and a percentage of an employee ' s normal earning to be set out in regulation . this amendment , together with the Minister ' s other amendment to clause 11 , would mean that the weekly rate of statutory sick pay in Northern Ireland would be the low of £ 118 . 75 and 80 % of an employee ' s weekly earning . the change from £ 116 . 75 to £ 118 . 75 be to account for annual uprating that be expect to come into effect on 6 April 2025 . amendment 84 , page 30 , line 35 , leave out " the prescribed percentage " and insert " 80 % " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 83 . amendment 85 , page 30 , line 37 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . — ( Justin Madders . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 83 . clause 18 - Harassment by Third Parties Amendment propose : 288 , page 34 , line 32 , leave out Clause 18 — ( Greg Smith . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 409 . question accordingly negative . clause 22 - Dismissal during pregnancy amendment make : 86 , page 36 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( ) part 5b of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( redundancy during a protect period of pregnancy ) be amend as follow . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 87 . amendment 87 , page 36 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( ) after section 49d insert — " 49E section 49d : supplemental Regulations under section 49d may — ( a ) make provision about notice to be give , evidence to be produce and other procedure to be follow by employee and employer ; ( b ) make provision for the consequence of failure to give notice , to produce evidence or to comply with other procedural requirement ; ( c ) make provision for the consequence of failure to act in accordance with a notice give by virtue of paragraph ( a ) ; ( d ) make special provision for case where an employee have a right which correspond to a right under section 49d and which arise under a contract of employment or otherwise ; ( e ) make provision modify the effect of chapter 2 of Part 14 ( calculation of a week ' s pay ) in relation to an employee who be or have be absent from work during , or after , a protect period of pregnancy ; ( f ) make provision apply , modify or exclude an enactment , in such circumstance as may be specify and subject to any condition specify , in relation to a person during , or after , a protect period of pregnancy ; ( g ) make different provision for different case or circumstance . " " section 49d of the Employment Rights Act 1996 , as amend by clause 22 , enable the Secretary of State to make regulation about redundancy or dismissal during , or after , a protect period of pregnancy . this amendment would enable the regulation to make supplementary provision in connection with that , such as procedure to be follow by employer and the consequence of fail to follow those procedure . these power mirror supplementary power confer by Part 8 of the 1996 Act in relation to type of family leave such as maternity and paternity leave . amendment 88 , page 36 , line 25 , leave out from begin to " after " and insert " in the heading of Part 5b , " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 87 . clause 24 - Dismissal for fail to agree to variation of contract , etc Amendment make : 89 , page 37 , line 29 , leave out " substantially the same duty " and insert " the same duty , or substantially the same duty , " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment make a minor drafting change . clause 25 - collective redundancy : extend application of requirement Amendments make : 90 , page 39 , line 8 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) before subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( A1 ) Subsection ( 1 ) apply where an employer be propose to dismiss as redundant within a period of 90 day or less — ( a ) at least the threshold number of employee ( see section 195A ) , or ( b ) 20 or more employee at one establishment . ' ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for the word from ' where ' to ' the employer ' substitute ' the employer ' ; ( c ) in subsection ( 1A ) , for ' ( 1 ) ' substitute ' ( A1 ) ' ; ( d ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2A ) this section do not require the employer to — ( a ) consult all of the appropriate representative together , or ( b ) undertake the consultation with a view to reach the same agreement with all of the appropriate representative . ' ; ( e ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( i ) in paragraph ( c ) , at the beginning insert ' where the employee whom it be propose to dismiss as redundant be at only one establishment , ' ; ( ii ) after paragraph ( c ) insert — ' ( can ) where the employee whom it be propose to dismiss as redundant be at more than one establishment — ( i ) the total number of employee of any such description employ by the employer , and ( ii ) detail of the establishment at which those employee be employ , ' . " this amendment and other amendment to this clause would mean that the Secretary of State can by regulation , in a case where employee be be make redundant at more than one establishment , prescribe a high number than 20 of those employee for the purpose of determine when the obligation in section 188 and 193 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 apply in relation to those employee . the number may be determine by reference to criterion set out in the regulation ( for example , by reference to a particular percentage of total employee ) . this amendment also clarify that , although consultation under section 188 must be carry out with all appropriate representative , it need not be carry out with all appropriate representative together or with a view to reach the same agreement with all appropriate representative . amendment 91 , page 39 , line 12 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) omit subsection ( 1 ) ; ( b ) before subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) subsection ( 2 ) apply where an employer be propose to dismiss as redundant within a period of 90 day or less — ( a ) at least the threshold number of employee ( see section 195A ) , or ( b ) 20 or more employee at one establishment . ' ; ( ba ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( i ) for the word from ' an employer ' to ' period ' substitute ' the employer ' ; ( ii ) omit paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) ; ( bb ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2A ) the notice must be give — ( a ) before the employer give notice to terminate an employee ' s contract of employment in respect of any of the dismissal ; ( b ) at least 30 day before the first of the dismissal take effect , or , where the employer be propose to dismiss 100 or more employee as mention in subsection ( 1A ) , at least 45 day before the first of the dismissal take effect . ' ; ( bc ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for ' ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) ' substitute ' ( 1A ) ' ; " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 90 . amendment 92 , page 39 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( d ) in subsection ( 6 ) , omit ' ( 1 ) or ' ; ( e ) in subsection ( 7 ) , for ' ( 1 ) ' substitute ' ( 2 ) ' . " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 90 . amendment 93 , page 39 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( ) after section 195 insert — ' 195A Construction of reference to threshold number of employee ( 1 ) in this chapter reference to the threshold number of employee be reference to the number of employee determine in accordance with regulation make by the Secretary of State under this section . ( 2 ) regulation under this section may ( among other thing ) provide that the number be — ( a ) a specified number ; ( b ) a number determine by reference to a specified percentage of employee ; ( c ) a number that be the high or low of two or more number , whether those number be specify number , determine by reference to a specified percentage of employee , or determine in another way specify in the regulation . ( 3 ) but the regulation may not provide in any case for the threshold number of employee to be low than 20 . ( 4 ) for the purpose of determine a number by reference to a specified percentage of employee , the regulation may make provision for determine how many employee an employer have , include ( among other thing ) — ( a ) provision about the time by reference to which that determination be to be make ; ( b ) provision exclude employee of a specify description from be take into account in that determination . ( 5 ) regulation under this section may make different provision for different purpose , include ( among other thing ) — ( a ) different provision in respect of different provision of this chapter ; ( b ) different provision in respect of different description of employer . ( 6 ) regulation under this section may contain such incidental , supplementary or transitional provision as appear to the Secretary of State to be necessary or expedient . ( 7 ) regulation under this section be to be make by statutory instrument . ( 8 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section ( whether alone or with other provision ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 9 ) in this section " specify " mean specify in the regulation . ' " see the explanatory statement for amendment 90 . Amendment 94 , page 39 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( ) in section 193A ( redundancy of ship ' crew ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , omit ' 193 ( 1 ) or ' ; ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for ' section 193 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) ' substitute ' section 193 ( 2 ) ' . " see the explanatory statement for amendment 90 . amendment 95 , page 39 , line 17 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , for ' 188 ( 2 ) and 193 ( 1 ) ' substitute ' 188 ( 1A ) and 193 ( 2A ) ( b ) ' ; ( b ) in the word after paragraph ( b ) , for ' 188 ( 2 ) and 193 ( 1 ) ' substitute ' 188 ( 1A ) and 193 ( 2A ) ( b ) ' . " see the explanatory statement for amendment 90 . amendment 96 , page 39 , line 21 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , for the word from ' 20 or more employee ' to ' or less , ' substitute ' within a period of 90 day or less — ( i ) at least the threshold number of employee ( see section 195A ) , or ( ii ) 20 or more employee at one establishment , ' ; ( b ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) — ( i ) for ' and as if ' substitute ' and , where relevant , as if ' ; ( ii ) for ' ( 1 ) ( b ) ' substitute ' ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) ' . " — ( Justin Madders . ) see the explanatory statement for amendment 90 . clause 26 - collective redundancy notification : ship ' crew Amendment make : 97 , page 40 , line 1 , leave out " after ' or ( 2 ) ' " and insert " before ' to the competent authority ' " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 94 . clause 31 - Power to establish the Adult Social Care Negotiating Body Amendments make : 98 , page 48 , line 32 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) and insert — " ( 1 ) where the appropriate authority provide for there to be a Negotiating Body under section ( power to establish Social Care Negotiating Body ) , the authority may by regulation make further provision about the Negotiating Body . " this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 99 , page 49 , line 16 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 100 , page 49 , line 19 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 32 - matter within the Negotiating Body ' s remit Amendments make : 101 , page 49 , line 39 , leave out third " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 102 , page 49 , line 41 , before first " social " insert " relevant " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 108 . amendment 103 , page 49 , line 41 , before second " social " insert " relevant " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 108 . Amendment 104 , page 50 , line 1 , before " social " insert " relevant " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 108 . amendment 105 , page 50 , line 2 , before " social " insert " relevant " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 108 . amendment 106 , page 50 , line 3 , before " social " insert " relevant " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 108 . Amendment 107 , page 50 , line 4 , before " social " insert " relevant " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 108 . amendment 108 , page 50 , line 5 , after " ( 1 ) " insert — " ' relevant social care worker ' , in relation to a Negotiating Body , mean a social care worker employ in , or in connection with , the provision of social care in the area for which the Negotiating Body be establish ; " this amendment be consequential on NC37 . it ensure that the matter within each Negotiating Body ' s remit must relate to social care worker employ in , or in connection with , the provision of social care in England , Wales or Scotland as applicable . amendment 109 , page 50 , line 6 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 33 - meaning of " social care worker " Amendments make : 110 , page 50 , line 8 , leave out from " mean " to end of line 10 and insert — " ( a ) in relation to England , a person who be employ wholly or mainly in , or in connection with , the provision of social care to individual age 18 or over ; ( b ) in relation to Wales or Scotland , a person who be employ wholly or mainly in , or in connection with , the provision of social care to any individual . " the effect of this amendment be that a Negotiating Body establish for Wales or Scotland may consider matter relate to people work in adult or child ' s social care . amendment 111 , page 50 , line 11 , leave out " adult " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 110 . amendment 112 , page 50 , line 13 , leave out " aged 18 or over " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 110 . amendment 113 , page 50 , line 16 , leave out from " assistance , " to end of line 20 . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 110 . clause 34 - consideration of matter by the Negotiating Body Amendments make : 114 , page 50 , line 23 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 115 , page 50 , line 24 , leave out " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 116 , page 50 , line 30 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 117 , page 50 , line 31 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 118 , page 50 , line 34 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 119 , page 51 , line 4 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 120 , page 51 , line 6 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 35 - reconsideration by the Negotiating Body Amendments make : 121 , page 51 , line 9 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 122 , page 51 , line 9 , leave out " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 123 , page 51 , line 10 , leave out " Secretary of State , the Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority , the authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 124 , page 51 , line 13 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 125 , page 51 , line 14 , leave out " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 126 , page 51 , line 19 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 127 , page 51 , line 22 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 128 , page 51 , line 32 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 129 , page 51 , line 34 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 36 - failure to reach an agreement Amendments make : 130 , page 51 , line 37 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 131 , page 51 , line 38 , leave out " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 132 , page 52 , line 2 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 133 , page 52 , line 5 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 37 - power to ratify agreement Amendments make : 134 , page 52 , line 9 , leave out first " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 135 , page 52 , line 10 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 136 , page 52 , line 11 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 38 - effect of regulation ratify agreement Amendments make : 137 , page 52 , line 15 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 138 , page 52 , line 16 , leave out " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 139 , page 52 , line 17 , after second " the " insert " social care " . this amendment make a minor drafting change . amendment 140 , page 52 , line 20 , after " the " insert " social care " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment make a minor drafting change . clause 39 - Power of Secretary of State to deal with matter Amendments make : 141 , page 52 , line 27 , leave out first " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 142 , page 52 , line 27 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 143 , page 52 , line 31 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 144 , page 52 , line 32 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 145 , page 53 , line 3 , after second " the " insert " social care " . this amendment make a minor drafting change . amendment 146 , page 53 , line 6 , after " the " insert " social care " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment make a minor drafting change . clause 40 - Guidance and code of practice Amendments make : 147 , page 53 , line 12 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 148 , page 53 , line 13 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " authority " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 149 , page 53 , line 14 , leave out " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 150 , page 53 , line 16 , after " make " insert " by the authority " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 41 - duty of employer to keep record Amendment make : 151 , page 54 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) regulation under this section that provide for any of those provision of that Act to apply in relation to such record may provide for section 49 of that Act ( restriction on contract out ) to apply , with or without modification , in relation to the application of those provision by the regulation . " — ( Justin Madders . ) clause 41 enable the Secretary of State to make regulation require employer to keep record for the purpose of chapter 2 of Part 3 . the regulation may also provide for provision of the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 relate to the keeping of record , for example section 10 , which confer a right to access record , to apply in relation to record keep for the purpose of chapter 2 . the amendment would enable section 49 of that Act also to be apply by the regulation . section 49 operate to prevent an agreement from seek to limit or exclude the operation of the 1998 Act or prevent a person from bring proceeding under that Act in an employment tribunal . any provision of a social care worker ' s contract that seek to prevent the worker from , say , access record keep by virtue of clause 41 would therefore be void . clause 42 - Enforcement of matter relate to pay Amendment make : 152 , page 54 , line 8 , leave out clause 42 . — ( Justin Madders . ) see the explanatory statement for amendment 250 . clause 43 - Regulations under section 37 or 39 : supplementary Amendment make : 153 , page 55 , line 4 , leave out from " submit " to " or " in line 5 and insert " by a Negotiating Body to the appropriate authority , " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 45 - status of agreement , etc amendment make : 154 , page 55 , line 18 , leave out first " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 155 , page 55 , line 18 , leave out second " the " and insert " a " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . Amendment 156 , page 55 , line 23 , leave out " the " and insert " a " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC37 . clause 46 - interpretation of this chapter Amendments make : 157 , page 55 , line 25 , at end insert — " ' the appropriate authority ' have the meaning give by section ( power to establish Social Care Negotiating Body ) ( 5 ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 158 , page 55 , line 32 , at end insert — " ' enactment ' mean — ( a ) an Act of Parliament , ( b ) a Measure or Act of the National Assembly for Wales or an Act of Senedd Cymru , or ( c ) an Act of the Scottish Parliament ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . it would enable , for example , regulation make by the Scottish Ministers set up a Negotiating Body to make consequential amendment of act of the Scottish Parliament . amendment 159 , page 55 , leave out line 33 and insert — " ' negotiate body ' have the meaning give by section ( power to establish Social Care Negotiating Body ) ( 5 ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on NC37 . amendment 160 , page 56 , line 1 , after " ' agency worker ' " insert " , ' relevant social care worker ' " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 108 . amendment 161 , page 56 , line 12 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NC38 . new Schedule 1 - agency worker : guarantee hour and right relate to shift " before Schedule 1 to the Employment Rights Act 1996 insert — " Schedule A1 - Agency worker : guarantee hour and right relate to shift " Schedule A1 Part 1 - right to guarantee hourspart 1 right for qualify agency worker to be offer guarantee hour 1 ( 1 ) a hirer must make a guarantee hour offer to an agency worker in accordance with paragraph 2 after the end of every period — ( a ) that be a reference period in relation to that agency worker and that hir , and ( b ) in relation to which the agency worker be a qualifying agency worker of the hirer . ( 2 ) paragraph 4 make provision for exception to this duty , include in certain case where the agency worker stop work for and under the supervision and direction of the hirer . ( 3 ) an agency worker be a qualifying agency worker of a hirer in relation to a reference period if — ( a ) during the reference period the agency worker work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir for a number of hour ( the " reference period hour " ) , ( b ) the reference period hour satisfy such condition as to number , regularity or otherwise as be specify , and ( c ) when the agency worker work the reference period hour , it be not as an exclude agency worker . ( 4 ) in relation to an agency worker and a hirer for and under the supervision and direction of whom the agency worker work , each of the following be a " reference period " — ( a ) the initial reference period , and ( b ) each subsequent reference period . ( 5 ) " the initial reference period " , in relation to an agency worker and a hirer for and under the supervision and direction of whom the agency worker work , mean the period — ( a ) begin with — ( i ) where the agency worker be work for and under the supervision and direction of the hirer on the day on which sub - paragraph ( 1 ) come into force ( " the commencement day " ) , the commencement day , or ( ii ) where the agency worker be not so work , the first day after the commencement day on which the agency worker be work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir , and ( b ) end with the specified day . ( 6 ) a " subsequent reference period " , in relation to an agency worker and a hirer for and under the supervision and direction of whom the agency worker work , mean a period begin and end with the specify day . ( 7 ) for the purpose of this Part of this schedule — ( a ) reference to a " hirer " be to a person for and under the supervision and direction of whom agency worker be supply to work ; ( b ) reference to a " qualifying agency worker " be to an agency worker who be a qualifying agency worker of a hirer in relation to a reference period by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , and ( c ) the reference period in relation to which the agency worker be a qualifying agency worker of the hirer be refer to as " the relevant reference period " . ( 8 ) nothing in this part of this schedule prevent a hirer from make one or more other offer to a qualifying agency worker to enter into a worker ' s contract , at the same time as make a guarantee hour offer . ( 9 ) Regulations make under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( b ) , ( 5 ) or ( 6 ) may , in particular , include provision to take account of time when an agency worker do not work for a specify reason . ( 10 ) in this paragraph , " exclude agency worker " mean an agency worker who be of a specified description . requirement relate to a guarantee hour offer 2 ( 1 ) an offer by a hirer to a qualifying agency worker be a guarantee hour offer for the purpose of this Part of this schedule if it be an offer to enter into a worker ' s contract and the worker ' s contract will require the hir to provide the qualifying agency worker with work , and the qualifying agency worker to do work , for a number of hour that reflect the reference period hour in the relevant reference period . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide that an offer by a hirer to a qualifying agency worker be a guarantee hour offer for the purpose of this Part of this schedule only if it also satisfy the condition in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) . ( 3 ) the condition refer to in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) be that — ( a ) the offer set out — ( i ) the day of the week , and the time on those day , when the offer number of hour be to be provide and work , or ( ii ) a work pattern of day , and time of day , by reference to which the offer number of hour be to be provide and work , and ( b ) those day and time reflect , or that pattern reflect , when the qualifying agency worker work the reference period hour in the relevant reference period . ( 4 ) where no regulation be in force under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) that apply in relation to an offer by a hirer to a qualifying agency worker , the offer be a guarantee hour offer for the purpose of this Part of this schedule only if it also propose term and condition relate to when the offer number of hour be to be provide and work ( which need not be on particular day of the week , or at particular time on those day , or by reference to a particular working pattern of day or time of day ) . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about how it be to be determine — ( a ) whether an offer reflect the number of hour work by a qualifying agency worker during a reference period ; ( b ) where regulation be in force under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) that apply in relation to an offer , whether the offer reflect when hour be work by a qualifying agency worker during a reference period . ( 6 ) a guarantee hour offer — ( a ) must not propose a worker ' s contract that be a limited - term contract unless it be reasonable for it to be enter into as such a contract , and ( b ) must ( in addition to what be require by or under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) or sub - paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) ) propose term and condition of employment — ( i ) that , take as a whole , be no less favourable than the term and condition relate to matter other than work hour and length of employment under which the qualifying agency worker work for and under the supervision and direction of the hirer during the relevant reference period , or ( ii ) where paragraph 3 apply , that comply with sub - paragraph ( 2 ) of that paragraph . ( 7 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 6 ) ( a ) it be reasonable for a worker ' s contract to be enter into , between a hir and a qualifying agency worker , as a limited - term contract only if — ( a ) it be reasonable for the hirer to consider that the qualifying agency worker be only need to perform a specific task and the worker ' s contract provide for termination when the task have be perform , ( b ) it be reasonable for the hirer to consider that the qualifying agency worker be only need until the occurrence of an event ( or the failure of an event to occur ) and the worker ' s contract provide for termination on the occurrence of the event ( or the failure of the event to occur ) , or ( c ) it be reasonable for the hirer to consider that there be only a temporary need of a specified description ( not fall within paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) ) for the qualifying agency worker to do work under the worker ' s contract and the worker ' s contract be to expire at a time when it be reasonable for the hirer to consider that the temporary need will come to an end . ( 8 ) a guarantee hour offer — ( a ) must be make by no later than the specify day , ( b ) must be make in the specify form and manner , and ( c ) must be accompany by specify information relate to the offer . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about when a guarantee hour offer be to be treat as have be make . ( 10 ) in this paragraph , " reference period hour " , in relation to a qualifying agency worker and a relevant reference period , have the same meaning as in paragraph 1 ( 3 ) . requirement relate to a guarantee hour offer : supplementary 3 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where , during the relevant reference period , the term and condition relate to matter other than work hour and length of employment under which the qualifying agency worker work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir be not the same throughout the relevant reference period . ( 2 ) where this paragraph apply , the guarantee hour offer may propose term and condition of employment ( in addition to what be require by or under paragraph 2 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) or paragraph 2 ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) ) that , take as a whole , be less favourable than the most favourable term and condition relate to matter other than work hour and length of employment that the qualifying agency worker have when work for and under the supervision and direction of the hirer during the relevant reference period , but only if — ( a ) those propose term and condition , take as a whole , be no less favourable than the least favourable term and condition relate to matter other than work hour and length of employment that the qualifying agency worker have when work for and under the supervision and direction of the hirer during the relevant reference period , and ( b ) the proposal of those term by the hirer constitute a proportionate mean of achieve a legitimate aim . ( 3 ) if a hir rely on sub - paragraph ( 2 ) when make a guarantee hour offer to a qualifying agency worker , the hirer must give to the qualifying agency worker a notice that — ( a ) state that the hirer have do so , and ( b ) explain how the propose term and condition constitute a proportionate mean of achieve a legitimate aim . ( 4 ) a notice under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) must be give by no later than the same day , and in the same form and manner , as the guarantee hour offer ( see paragraph 2 ( 8 ) ) . guarantee hour offer : exception to duty to make offer and withdrawal of offer 4 ( 1 ) the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) on a hir in relation to a qualifying agency worker do not apply if , during the relevant reference period or the offer period , the qualifying agency worker stop work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir in relevant circumstance . ( 2 ) a guarantee hour offer make by a hirer to a qualifying agency worker be to be treat as have be withdraw if , during the response period , the qualifying agency worker stop work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir in relevant circumstance . ( 3 ) relevant circumstance occur where — ( a ) the qualifying agency worker decline to continue work under the supervision and direction of the hir other than in circumstance in which the qualifying agency worker be entitle to do so without notice by reason of the hir ' s conduct ; ( b ) the hirer tell the work - find agency , or other person , that have be supply the qualifying agency worker to the hirer to stop supply the qualifying agency worker and — ( i ) the hir ' s reason for do so ( or , if more than one , the hir ' s principal reason for do so ) be a qualifying reason , and ( ii ) in the circumstance ( include the size and administrative resource of the hir ' s undertake ) the hirer have act reasonably in treat the reason ( or the principal reason ) as a sufficient reason for tell the work - find agency , or other person , to stop supply the qualifying agency worker . ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( b ) , " qualifying reason " , in relation to a qualifying agency worker , mean a reason fall within sub - paragraph ( 5 ) or some other substantial reason of a kind such as to justify tell a work - find agency , or other person , to stop supply an agency worker do work of the kind which the qualifying agency worker be supply to the hirer to do . ( 5 ) a reason fall within this sub - paragraph if it — ( a ) relate to the capability or qualification of the qualifying agency worker to do work of the kind which the qualifying agency worker be supply to the hirer to do , ( b ) relate to the conduct of the qualifying agency worker , or ( c ) be that the qualifying agency worker could not continue to do work of the kind which the qualifying agency worker be supply to the hirer to do without contravention ( whether on the part of the qualifying agency worker , on the part of the hir or on the part of the work - find agency or other person that supply the qualifying agency worker ) of a duty or restriction impose by or under any legislation . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision for the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) not to apply , or for a guarantee hour offer that have be make to be treat as have be withdraw , in other specify circumstance . ( 7 ) where , by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , a guarantee hour offer make by a hirer to a qualifying agency worker be treat as have be withdraw , the hir must , by no later than the end of the response period , give a notice to the qualifying agency worker state this to be the case . ( 8 ) where , by virtue of regulation under sub - paragraph ( 6 ) — ( a ) a hirer who would otherwise have be subject to the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) in relation to a qualifying agency worker and a particular reference period be not require to make a guarantee hour offer to the qualifying agency worker , or ( b ) a guarantee hour offer make by a hirer to a qualifying agency worker be treat as have be withdraw , the hirer must give a notice to the qualifying agency worker that state which provision of the regulation have produce the effect refer to in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) ( as the case may be ) . ( 9 ) a notice under sub - paragraph ( 8 ) must be give by a hirer to a qualifying agency worker — ( a ) where it be require to be give by virtue of paragraph ( a ) of that sub - paragraph , by no later than the end of the offer period ; ( b ) where it be require to be give by virtue of paragraph ( b ) of that sub - paragraph , by no later than the end of the response period . ( 10 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about — ( a ) the form and manner in which a notice under sub - paragraph ( 7 ) or ( 8 ) must be give ; ( b ) when a notice under sub - paragraph ( 7 ) or ( 8 ) be to be treat as have be give . ( 11 ) in this paragraph — " capability " , in relation to a qualifying agency worker , mean the qualifying agency worker ' s capability assess by reference to skill , aptitude , health or any other physical or mental quality ; " the offer period " , in relation to a qualifying agency worker and the hirer for and under the supervision and direction of whom the agency worker work , mean the period begin with the day after the day on which the relevant reference period end and end with — ( a ) the day on which a guarantee hour offer be make to the qualifying agency worker by the hir , or ( b ) if no guarantee hour offer be make before the day specify under paragraph 2 ( 8 ) ( a ) as the last day on which the hirer may make such an offer to the qualifying agency worker , that last day ; " qualification " , in relation to a qualifying agency worker , mean any degree , diploma or other academic , technical or professional qualification relevant to the work which the qualifying agency worker be supply to the hirer to do ; " the response period " , in relation to a guarantee hour offer make to a qualifying agency worker , mean the period — ( a ) begin with the day after the day on which the offer be make , and ( b ) end with the specified day . acceptance or rejection of a guarantee hour offer 5 ( 1 ) where a hirer make a guarantee hour offer to a qualifying agency worker and the offer be not treat as have be withdraw by virtue of paragraph 4 ( 2 ) or regulation under paragraph 4 ( 6 ) , the qualifying agency worker may , by give notice to the hir before the end of the response period , accept or reject the offer . ( 2 ) where a qualifying agency worker give notice under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) accept an offer , the qualifying agency worker and the hirer that make the offer be to be treat as enter into a worker ' s contract in the term of the offer on the day after the day on which notice be give . ( 3 ) but a qualifying agency worker and a hirer may agree , for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , that the worker ' s contract be to be treat as be enter into on a late day than the day mention in that sub - paragraph . ( 4 ) if a qualifying agency worker to whom a guarantee hour offer have be make do not give notice under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) before the end of the response period , the qualifying agency worker be to be treat as have reject the offer . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about — ( a ) the form and manner in which notice under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) must be give by a qualifying agency worker to a hirer ; ( b ) when notice give by a qualifying agency worker to a hirer under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) be to be treat as have be give . ( 6 ) in this paragraph , " the response period " have the same meaning as in paragraph 4 . ( 7 ) where — ( a ) a hirer be permit by section 27bud ( 3 ) to withdraw a guarantee hour offer ( withdrawal of offer follow incorporation of term of collective agreement ) , and ( b ) the hirer withdraw the offer by give notice under that section , sub - paragraph ( 1 ) of this paragraph cease to apply in relation to the offer when the notice be give . information about right confer by Part 1 of Schedule A1 6 ( 1 ) where — ( a ) a work - find agency have a worker ' s contract or an arrangement with an agency worker by virtue of which the agency worker be ( or be to be ) supply to work for and under the supervision and direction of a hir , and ( b ) it be reasonable to consider that the agency worker might become a qualifying agency worker of a hirer in relation to a reference period ( whether the initial reference period , or a subsequent reference period , as define in paragraph 1 ) , the work - find agency must take reasonable step , within the initial information period , to ensure that the agency worker be aware of specified information relate to the right confer on agency worker by this Part of this Schedule . ( 2 ) a work - find agency that be subject to the duty in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) in relation to an agency worker must take reasonable step to ensure that , after the end of the initial information period , the agency worker continue to have access to the specify information refer to in that sub - paragraph at all time when — ( a ) the worker ' s contract or ( as the case may be ) the arrangement so refer to continue to be in force , and ( b ) it be reasonable to consider that the agency worker might become ( or might again become ) a qualifying agency worker of a hirer in relation to a reference period . ( 3 ) " the initial information period " , in relation to an agency worker and the work - find agency with which the agency worker have a worker ' s contract or an arrangement by virtue of which the agency worker be ( or be to be ) supply to work for and under the supervision and direction of a hirer , mean the period of two week begin with — ( a ) where the worker ' s contract or arrangement be in force on the day on which paragraph 1 ( 1 ) come into force ( " the commencement day " ) , the commencement day , or ( b ) where it be not in force on that day , the first day after the commencement day on which it be in force . ( 4 ) but where , on the day refer to in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) or ( b ) , it be not reasonable to consider that the agency worker might become a qualifying agency worker of a hirer in relation to any reference period , sub - paragraph ( 3 ) be to be read as if it provide for " the initial information period " to mean the period of two week begin with the day on which it become reasonable so to consider . complaint to employment tribunal against a hirer : ground 7 ( 1 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that — ( a ) the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) apply to a hir in relation to the agency worker and a particular reference period , but ( b ) by the end of the last day of the offer period , the hirer have not make an offer to enter into a worker ' s contract in compliance ( or purport compliance ) with that duty ( whether because the hirer do not consider that the agency worker be a qualifying agency worker in relation to the reference period or for any other reason ) . ( 2 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that — ( a ) the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) apply to a hir in relation to the agency worker and a particular reference period , but ( b ) the offer that the hirer have make to the agency worker in relation to that reference period to enter into a worker ' s contract be not a guarantee hour offer as describe in — ( i ) where regulation be in force under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) of paragraph 2 that apply in relation to the offer , sub - paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) of that paragraph ( read with any regulation in force under sub - paragraph ( 5 ) ( a ) or ( b ) of that paragraph ) , or ( ii ) where no regulation be in force under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) of paragraph 2 that apply in relation to the offer , sub - paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) of that paragraph ( read with any regulation in force under sub - paragraph ( 5 ) ( a ) of that paragraph ) . ( 3 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that — ( a ) the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) apply to a hir in relation to the agency worker and a particular reference period , but ( b ) the guarantee hour offer that the hirer have make to the agency worker in relation to that reference period do not comply with paragraph 2 ( 6 ) . ( 4 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that — ( a ) the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) apply to a hir in relation to the agency worker and a particular reference period , but ( b ) the guarantee hour offer that the hirer have make to the agency worker in relation to that reference period be on term require the hir to provide , and the agency worker to do , less work than would have be the case if the hir have not , during that reference period — ( i ) limit ( by whatever mean ) the number of hour of work that the agency worker be request or require , by virtue of a worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and a work - find agency , to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir , or ( ii ) cause the agency worker to be request or require , by virtue of a worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and a work - find agency , to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir in the way that the agency worker be , for the sole or main purpose of the hir be able to comply with the duty by make such a reduce offer . ( 5 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) would have apply to a hirer in relation to the agency worker and a particular reference period if the hirer have not , during that reference period — ( a ) limited ( by whatever mean ) the number of hour of work that the agency worker be request or require , by virtue of a worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and a work - find agency , to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir , or ( b ) cause the agency worker to be request or require , by virtue of a worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and a work - find agency , to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir in the way that the agency worker be , for the sole or main purpose of prevent the agency worker from satisfy , in relation to that reference period , the condition in paragraph 1 ( 3 ) ( a ) or ( b ) . ( 6 ) a complaint under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) — ( a ) may be present whether or not the offer in question have be accept by the agency worker , but ( b ) may not be present in relation to an offer that be — ( i ) treat as have be withdraw by virtue of paragraph 4 ( 2 ) or regulation under paragraph 4 ( 6 ) , or ( ii ) withdraw in accordance with section 27bud ( 3 ) ( withdrawal of offer follow incorporation of term of collective agreement ) . ( 7 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that a hirer — ( a ) have fail to give to the agency worker a notice under paragraph 4 ( 7 ) or ( 8 ) ; ( b ) have give to the agency worker a notice under paragraph 4 ( 7 ) or ( 8 ) ( b ) in circumstance in which the hirer should not have do so ; ( c ) have give to the agency worker a notice in purport compliance with paragraph 4 ( 8 ) that do not refer to any provision of the regulation or refer to the wrong provision . ( 8 ) in this paragraph , " the last day of the offer period " , in relation to a reference period , mean the day specify under paragraph 2 ( 8 ) ( a ) as the last day on which a guarantee hour offer may be make in relation to that reference period . complaint to employment tribunal against a work - find agency : ground 8 ( 1 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal , against a relevant work - find agency , that — ( a ) the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) apply to a hir in relation to the agency worker and a particular reference period , but ( b ) during that reference period the relevant work - find agency — ( i ) limit ( by whatever mean , include termination of a worker ' s contract or an arrangement ) the number of hour of work that the agency worker be request or require , by virtue of a worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and the relevant work - find agency , to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir , or ( ii ) cause the agency worker to be request or require , by virtue of a worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and the relevant work - find agency , to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir in the way that the agency worker be , for the sole or main purpose of enable the hir to comply with the duty by make an offer to the agency worker on term require the hir to provide , and the agency worker to do , less work than would otherwise have be the case . ( 2 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal , against a relevant work - find agency , that the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) would have apply to a hirer in relation to the agency worker and a particular reference period if the relevant work - find agency have not , during that reference period — ( a ) limited ( by whatever mean , include termination of a worker ' s contract or an arrangement ) the number of hour of work that the agency worker be request or require , by virtue of a worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and the relevant work - find agency , to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir , or ( b ) cause the agency worker to be request or require , by virtue of a worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and the relevant work - find agency , to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir in the way that the agency worker be , for the sole or main purpose of prevent the agency worker from satisfy , in relation to that reference period , the condition in paragraph 1 ( 3 ) ( a ) or ( b ) . ( 3 ) a complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( a ) may be present whether or not an offer have be make by the hirer to the agency worker and , if it have , whether or not the offer have be accept by the agency worker , but ( b ) where an offer have be make , may not be present where the offer be — ( i ) treat as have be withdraw by virtue of paragraph 4 ( 2 ) or regulation under paragraph 4 ( 6 ) , or ( ii ) withdraw in accordance with section 27bud ( 3 ) ( withdrawal of offer follow incorporation of term of collective agreement ) . ( 4 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , reference to a " relevant work - find agency " , in relation to an agency worker , a hir and a reference period , be to a work - find agency with which the agency worker have a worker ' s contract or arrangement by virtue of which the agency worker be ( or could have be ) supply to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hirer during the reference period in question . ( 5 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that a work - find agency have fail to comply with — ( a ) the duty impose by paragraph 6 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) the duty impose by paragraph 6 ( 2 ) . complaint to employment tribunal : time limit 9 ( 1 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under paragraph 7 ( 1 ) unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the last day of the offer period ( as define in paragraph 7 ( 8 ) ) . ( 2 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under paragraph 7 ( 2 ) unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the day when the offer refer to in that provision be make . ( 3 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under paragraph 7 ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the day when the guarantee hour offer refer to in that provision be make . ( 4 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under paragraph 7 ( 5 ) or 8 ( 2 ) unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after what would have be the last day of the offer period ( as define in paragraph 7 ( 8 ) ) if the duty in paragraph 1 ( 1 ) have apply . ( 5 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under paragraph 7 ( 7 ) ( a ) relate to a notice unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the day on or before which the notice should have be give ( see paragraph 4 ( 7 ) and ( 9 ) ) . ( 6 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under paragraph 7 ( 7 ) ( b ) or ( c ) relate to a notice unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the day on which the notice be give . ( 7 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under paragraph 8 ( 1 ) unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the last day of the offer period ( as define in paragraph 7 ( 8 ) ) . ( 8 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under paragraph 8 ( 5 ) ( a ) unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the last day of the initial information period ( see paragraph 6 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) ) . ( 9 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under paragraph 8 ( 5 ) ( b ) unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day on which the agency worker first become aware of the failure to which the complaint relate . ( 10 ) but , if the employment tribunal be satisfied that it be not reasonably practicable for a complaint under paragraph 7 or 8 to be present before the end of the relevant period of six month , the tribunal may consider the complaint if it be present within such further period as the tribunal consider reasonable . ( 11 ) section 207b ( extension of time limit to facilitate conciliation before institution of proceeding ) apply for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) to ( 9 ) . remedy 10 ( 1 ) where an employment tribunal find a complaint under paragraph 7 or 8 well - found , the tribunal — ( a ) must make a declaration to that effect , and ( b ) may make an award of compensation to be pay by the respondent to the agency worker . ( 2 ) the amount of compensation under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) be to be such amount , not exceed the permit maximum , as the tribunal consider just and equitable in all the circumstance to compensate the agency worker for any financial loss sustain by the agency worker which be attributable to the matter complain of . ( 3 ) in ascertain the financial loss sustain , the tribunal must apply the same rule concern the duty of a person to mitigate their loss as apply to damage recoverable under the common law of England and Wales or ( as the case may be ) Scotland . ( 4 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , " the permit maximum " be — ( a ) where the complaint be under paragraph 7 ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 7 ) or 8 ( 5 ) , such number of week ' pay as the Secretary of State may specify in regulation ; ( b ) where the complaint be under paragraph 7 ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) or 8 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , such amount as the Secretary of State may specify in regulation . ( 5 ) for the purpose of determine the permit maximum for an award of compensation to be pay by a hirer ( where the complaint be under paragraph 7 ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 7 ) ) — ( a ) the amount of a week ' s pay be ( subject to paragraph ( b ) ) the amount of average weekly remuneration receive by the agency worker for work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir in the reference period in question ; ( b ) the amount of a week ' s pay be not to exceed the amount specify in section 227 ( 1 ) ( as amend from time to time ) . ( 6 ) for the purpose of determine the permit maximum for an award of compensation to be pay by a work - find agency ( where the complaint be under paragraph 8 ( 5 ) ) — ( a ) the amount of a week ' s pay be ( subject to paragraph ( b ) ) the amount of average weekly remuneration receive by the agency worker , in the relevant period , for work for and under the supervision and direction of a hirer ( or , if more than one , all of the hirer take together ) by virtue of the worker ' s contract or arrangement between the work - find agency and the agency worker ; ( b ) the amount of a week ' s pay be not to exceed the amount specify in section 227 ( 1 ) ( as amend from time to time ) ; ( c ) " the relevant period " mean — ( i ) where the worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and the work - find agency cease to be in force on or before the date the complaint be present to the employment tribunal , the period of 12 week ( or , if it be not in force for 12 week , the short period for which it be in force ) end with the late day before the last day on which it be in force on which the agency worker work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir , or ( if more than one ) one of the hirer , refer to in paragraph ( a ) ; ( ii ) where the worker ' s contract or arrangement between the agency worker and the work - find agency do not so cease to be in force , the period of 12 week ( or , if it have not then be in force for 12 week , the short period for which it have be in force ) end with the late day before the date on which the complaint be present to the employment tribunal on which the agency worker work for and under the supervision and direction of the hir , or ( if more than one ) one of the hirer , refer to in paragraph ( a ) ; ( d ) chapter 2 of Part 14 do not apply ( and this paragraph apply instead ) , where the agency worker to whom compensation be to be pay be an employee of the work - find agency . power to change the effect of Part 1 of Schedule A1 11 ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision that , in relation to specify description of agency worker , have the effect that — ( a ) a hirer be not require by this Part of this schedule to make a guarantee hour offer , and ( b ) a work - find agency , or another person involve in the supply or payment of an agency worker , be instead require to make a corresponding or similar offer ( and be liable to have a complaint against they present to an employment tribunal on ground correspond or similar to those in paragraph 7 ) . ( 2 ) the provision refer to in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) may be make by amend this Act ( or otherwise ) . ( 3 ) regulation under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) may make consequential provision , include provision amend — ( a ) an Act of Parliament ( include this Act ) ; ( b ) a Measure or Act of the National Assembly for Wales or an Act of Senedd Cymru ; ( c ) an Act of the Scottish Parliament . part 2 - shift : right to reasonable noticepart 2 application of Part 2 of Schedule A1 12 ( 1 ) this part of this Schedule apply in relation to a shift that would be ( or would have be ) work , or be be work , by an individual as an agency worker . ( 2 ) but nothing in this part of this Schedule apply in relation to a shift that would be ( or would have be ) work , or be be work , by an individual as an agency worker if , in relation to the agency worker , the shift be an exclude shift . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this Part of this schedule , " exclude shift " , in relation to an agency worker , mean a shift of a specify description . ( 4 ) regulation under sub - paragraph ( 3 ) may , in particular , specify a description of shift by reference to — ( a ) the amount payable for work the shift be more than a specify amount ; ( b ) the number of hour to be work during the shift , whether alone or take together with other shift of a specified description , be more than a specified number ; ( c ) the shift correspond to the time of a shift provide for by a worker ' s contract between the agency worker and a work - find agency or another person involve in the supply or payment of the agency worker ( and where the regulation so specify a description of shift , the regulation may include provision similar or corresponding to section 27BJ ( 5a ) ) . ( 5 ) in the application of this Part of this schedule in relation to an agency worker and a shift , reference to — ( a ) " the work - find agency " be to the work - find agency with which the agency worker have a worker ' s contract or an arrangement and by virtue of which the agency worker would work ( or would have work ) or be work the shift ; ( b ) " the hirer " be to the person for and under the supervision and direction of whom the agency worker would work ( or would have work ) or be work the shift . right to reasonable notice of a shift 13 ( 1 ) an agency worker be entitle to be give , by the work - find agency or the hirer , reasonable notice of a shift that the agency worker be request or require to work by virtue of the worker ' s contract or arrangement that the agency worker have with the work - find agency . ( 2 ) it be to be presume , unless the contrary be show , that notice of a shift be not reasonable notice if it be give less than a specify amount of time before the shift be due to start . ( 3 ) in this paragraph and paragraph 14 and 15 , " notice of a shift " mean notice of how many hour be to be work during the shift and when the shift be to start and end . right to reasonable notice of cancellation of or change to a shift 14 ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) apply in relation to an agency worker where — ( a ) the agency worker have be give notice of a shift by the work - find agency or the hir , and ( b ) where the shift be one that the agency worker have be request ( rather than require ) to work , the agency worker have agree to work it . ( 2 ) the agency worker be entitle to be give , by the work - find agency or the hirer , reasonable notice of — ( a ) the cancellation of the shift ; ( b ) any change request or require by virtue of the worker ' s contract or arrangement that the agency worker have with the work - find agency consist of — ( i ) a change to when the shift be to start or end ; ( ii ) a reduction in the number of hour to be work during the shift because of a break in the shift ; ( but this be subject to paragraph 17 ) . ( 3 ) it be to be presume , unless the contrary be show , that — ( a ) notice of the cancellation of a shift be not reasonable notice for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) if it be give less than a specify amount of time before the shift would have start ( if the shift have not be cancel ) ; ( b ) notice of a change to when a shift be to start be not reasonable notice for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) if it be give less than a specify amount of time before the early of — ( i ) when the shift would have start ( if the shift have not be change ) , and ( ii ) when the shift be due to start ( have be change ) ; ( c ) notice of any other change to a shift be not reasonable notice for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) if it be give — ( i ) less than a specify amount of time before the shift be due to start ; ( ii ) on or after the start of the shift . paragraph 13 and 14 : liability of work - find agency and hirer 15 ( 1 ) the work - find agency be liable for a breach of paragraph 13 or 14 , in relation to an agency worker and a shift , to the extent that it be responsible for the breach . ( 2 ) the hirer be liable for a breach of paragraph 13 or 14 , in relation to an agency worker and a shift , to the extent that it be responsible for the breach . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this Part of this Schedule , the hirer be not responsible for a breach of paragraph 13 or 14 in relation to an agency worker and a shift ( and accordingly be not liable for the breach ) if — ( a ) the hirer give notice to the work - find agency of the shift or ( as the case may be ) of the cancellation of , or change to , the shift , and ( b ) that notice be such as to enable the work - find agency to give reasonable notice to the agency worker under paragraph 13 or 14 . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide , in relation to an agency worker and a shift , that the work - find agency be solely responsible for a breach of paragraph 13 or 14 ( and accordingly be solely liable for the breach ) where the hirer be a person of a specified description . paragraph 13 to 15 : supplementary 16 ( 1 ) where an agency worker suggest work a shift and the work - find agency or the hirer agree to the suggestion — ( a ) nothing in paragraph 13 apply in relation to the shift as suggest by the agency worker , but ( b ) paragraph 14 ( 2 ) apply ( even though the condition in paragraph 14 ( 1 ) have not be meet ) . ( 2 ) in paragraph 13 and 14 , reference to a request make to an agency worker to work a shift include a request ( a " multi - worker request " ) make to the agency worker and one or more other in circumstance where not all of those to whom the request be make be need to work the shift . ( 3 ) for the purpose of paragraph 14 , where a multi - worker request have be make to an agency worker in relation to a shift , reference to the cancellation of the shift include the agency worker not be need to work the shift because one or more other have agree to work it . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about — ( a ) the form and manner in which notice under paragraph 13 to 15 must be give ; ( b ) when notice under those paragraph be to be treat as have be give . interaction with Part 3 of Schedule A1 17 ( 1 ) where a work - find agency — ( a ) be require to make a payment to an agency worker under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) in relation to a shift that be cancel , move or curtail at short notice , or ( b ) would have be require to make such a payment in relation to the shift but for provision make under paragraph 23 ( 1 ) ( c ) , nothing in paragraph 14 ( 2 ) be to be take to have apply in relation to the cancellation , movement or curtailment of the shift that give rise to , or would have give rise to , the requirement to make the payment . ( 2 ) term use in this paragraph have the same meaning as in paragraph 21 . complaint to employment tribunal 18 ( 1 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the work - find agency or the hirer be liable for a breach of paragraph 13 or 14 in relation to the agency worker and a shift . ( 2 ) where , in determine whether a complaint under this paragraph be well - found , the tribunal must determine whether reasonable notice have be give , the tribunal must have regard , in particular , to such of the specify matter as be appropriate in the circumstance . ( 3 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under this paragraph unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with — ( a ) where the complaint be that the work - find agency or the hirer be liable for a breach of paragraph 13 in relation to the agency worker and a shift , the day on which the shift be due to start ; ( b ) where the complaint be that the work - find agency or the hirer be liable for a breach of paragraph 14 ( 2 ) in relation to the agency worker and the cancellation of a shift , the day on which the shift would have start ( if the shift have not be cancel ) ; ( c ) where the complaint be that the work - find agency or the hirer be liable for a breach of paragraph 14 ( 2 ) in relation to the agency worker and a change to a shift , the day on which the shift as change be due to start or , where the shift be change on or after its start , the day on which the shift start . ( 4 ) but , if the employment tribunal be satisfied that it be not reasonably practicable for a complaint to be present before the end of the relevant period of six month , the tribunal may consider the complaint if it be present within such further period as the tribunal consider reasonable . ( 5 ) section 207b ( extension of time limit to facilitate conciliation before institution of proceeding ) apply for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 3 ) . remedy 19 ( 1 ) where an employment tribunal find a complaint under paragraph 18 well - found , the tribunal — ( a ) must make a declaration to that effect , and ( b ) may make an award of compensation to be pay by the respondent to the agency worker . ( 2 ) the amount of compensation under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) in relation to a complaint be to be such amount , not exceed the specified amount , as the tribunal consider just and equitable in all the circumstance to compensate the agency worker for any financial loss sustain by the agency worker which be attributable to the matter complain of . ( 3 ) in ascertain the financial loss sustain , the tribunal must apply the same rule concern the duty of a person to mitigate their loss as apply to damage recoverable under the common law of England and Wales or ( as the case may be ) Scotland . ( 4 ) where an employment tribunal make an award of compensation under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) to an agency worker in relation to a shift and both the work - find agency and the hir be respondent , the amount of compensation payable by each respondent be to be such amount ( if any ) as the tribunal consider just and equitable have regard to the extent of each respondent ' s responsibility for the breach to which the complaint relate . part 3 - right to payment for cancel , move and curtail shiftspart 3 application of Part 3 of Schedule A1 20 ( 1 ) this part of this Schedule apply in relation to a shift that would be ( or would have be ) work , or be be work , by an individual as an agency worker . ( 2 ) in the application of this Part of this schedule in relation to an agency worker and a shift , reference to — ( a ) " the work - find agency " be to the work - find agency with which the agency worker have a worker ' s contract or an arrangement and by virtue of which the agency worker would work ( or would have work ) or be work the shift ; ( b ) " the hirer " be to the person for and under the supervision and direction of whom the agency worker would work ( or would have work ) or be work the shift . right to payment for a cancel , move or curtail shift 21 ( 1 ) a work - find agency must make a payment of a specified amount to an agency worker each time that , by virtue of the worker ' s contract or arrangement that the agency worker have with the work - find agency , there be a cancellation , movement or curtailment at short notice of a shift — ( a ) that the agency worker have be inform they be require to work for the hirer ( by virtue of that worker ' s contract or arrangement ) , ( b ) that the agency worker have be request to work for the hirer ( by virtue of that worker ' s contract or arrangement ) and the agency worker have agree to work , or ( c ) that the agency worker have suggest work for the hirer and it have be agree ( by virtue of that worker ' s contract or arrangement ) that the agency worker be to work , ( but see paragraph 23 for exception to this duty ) . ( 2 ) a payment that a work - find agency be require to make under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) must be make by no later than the specify day . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this Part of this schedule , " short notice " mean — ( a ) in relation to the cancellation of a shift , notice give less than a specify amount of time before the shift would have start ( if the shift have not be cancel ) ; ( b ) in relation to the movement of a shift , or the movement and curtailment ( at the same time ) of a shift , notice give less than a specify amount of time before the early of — ( i ) when the shift would have start ( if the shift have not be move , or move and curtail ) , and ( ii ) when the shift be due to start ( have be move , or move and curtail ) ; ( c ) in relation to the curtailment of a shift where there be a change to when the shift be to start ( but there be no movement of the shift ) , notice give less than a specify amount of time before the early of — ( i ) when the shift would have start ( if there have not be the change ) , and ( ii ) when the shift be due to start ( the change have be make ) ; ( d ) in relation to the curtailment of a shift where there be no change to when the shift be to start , notice give — ( i ) less than a specify amount of time before the shift be due to start ; ( ii ) on or after the start of the shift . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about when notice of the cancellation , movement or curtailment of a shift be to be treat as have be give to an agency worker for the purpose of this Part of this Schedule . ( 5 ) in this part of this schedule , reference to the " movement " of a shift ( however express ) be to any change to the day on which or the time at which the shift be to start that be a change of more than a specify amount of time . ( 6 ) in this part of this schedule , reference to a request make to an agency worker to work a shift include a request ( a " multi - worker request " ) make to the agency worker and one or more other in circumstance where not all of those to whom the request be make be need to work the shift . ( 7 ) for the purpose of this Part of this Schedule , where a multi - worker request have be make to an agency worker in relation to a shift , reference to the cancellation of the shift include the agency worker not be need to work the shift because one or more other have agree to work it . regulation under paragraph 21 : supplementary 22 ( 1 ) regulation under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) may not specify an amount to be pay to an agency worker in relation to the cancellation , movement or curtailment of a shift that exceed — ( a ) where the shift be cancel , the amount of remuneration to which the agency worker would have be entitle have they work the hour that will not be work because of the cancellation ; ( b ) where the shift be move , or move and curtail ( at the same time ) , and no part of the shift as move , or as move and curtail , correspond to the time of the shift ( " the original shift " ) before it be move , or move and curtail , the amount of remuneration to which the agency worker would have be entitle have they work the original shift ; ( c ) where the shift be move , or move and curtail ( at the same time ) , and part of the shift as move , or as move and curtail , correspond to the time of the original shift ( but part do not ) , the amount of remuneration to which the agency worker would have be entitle have they work the part of the original shift that do not correspond to the shift as move , or as move and curtail ; ( d ) where the shift be — ( i ) curtail but not move , or ( ii ) move and curtail ( at the same time ) and the shift as move and curtail be to start and end within the time of the original shift , the amount of remuneration to which the agency worker would have be entitle have they work the hour that will not be work because of the curtailment , or the movement and curtailment . ( 2 ) regulation under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) may , in particular , include provision specify different amount depend on the amount of notice that be give of the cancellation , movement or curtailment . ( 3 ) regulation under paragraph 21 ( 3 ) may not specify an amount of time that exceed 7 day . exception to duty to make payment for a cancel , move or curtail shift 23 ( 1 ) the requirement to make a payment under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) do not apply — ( a ) in relation to the cancellation , movement or curtailment of a shift if , in relation to the agency worker , the shift be an exclude shift ; ( b ) in relation to the cancellation , movement or curtailment of a shift that an agency worker have be request to work , unless the agency worker reasonably believe , whether on agree to work the shift or at some later time before the cancellation , movement or curtailment , that they would be need to work the shift ; ( c ) in other specified circumstance ( whether circumstance relate to the work - find agency , the hir or otherwise ) . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , " exclude shift " , in relation to an agency worker , mean a shift of a specify description . ( 3 ) regulation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) may , in particular , specify a description of shift by reference to — ( a ) the amount payable for work the shift be more than a specify amount ; ( b ) the number of hour to be work during the shift , whether alone or take together with other shift of a specified description , be more than a specified number ; ( c ) the shift correspond to the time of a shift provide for by a worker ' s contract between the agency worker and a work - find agency or another person involve in the supply or payment of the agency worker ( and where the regulation so specify a description of shift , the regulation may include provision similar or corresponding to section 27bp ( 4 ) ) . ( 4 ) where , by virtue of regulation make under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( c ) , a work - find agency be not require to make a payment to an agency worker in relation to a shift under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) , the work - find agency must give a notice to the agency worker that — ( a ) state which provision of the regulation have produce the effect that the work - find agency be not require to make the payment , and ( b ) explain why the work - find agency be entitle to rely on that provision so as not to make the payment to the agency worker under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) . ( 5 ) but sub - paragraph ( 4 ) do not require a work - find agency to disclose — ( a ) any information the disclosure of which by the work - find agency would contravene the data protection legislation ( but in determine whether a disclosure would do so , the duty impose by that sub - paragraph be to be take into account ) ; ( b ) any information that be commercially sensitive ; ( c ) any information the disclosure of which by the work - find agency would constitute a breach of a duty of confidentiality owe by the work - find agency to any other person . ( 6 ) in sub - paragraph ( 5 ) ( a ) " the data protection legislation " have the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 ( see section 3 ( 9 ) of that Act ) . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about — ( a ) the form and manner in which a notice under this paragraph must be give ; ( b ) the day on or before which it must be give ; ( c ) when a notice under this paragraph be to be treat as have be give . ( 8 ) the duty in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) do not apply if , before the day on or before which the notice must be give , the work - find agency or another person have pay to the agency worker an amount in relation to a number of hour that be at least equal to the amount of the payment that the work - find agency would have be require to make to the agency worker under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) in relation to the same number of hour but for regulation make under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( c ) . ( 9 ) sub - paragraph ( 4 ) of paragraph 24 apply for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 8 ) of this paragraph as it apply for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of that paragraph . contractual remuneration 24 ( 1 ) the right of an agency worker to receive a payment from a work - find agency under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) do not affect any right of the agency worker in relation to remuneration under a worker ' s contract ( whether with the work - find agency or another person ) ( " contractual remuneration " ) . ( 2 ) any contractual remuneration pay to an agency worker in relation to a number of hour go towards discharge any liability of the work - find agency to make a payment to the agency worker under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) in relation to the same hour . ( 3 ) any payment make by a work - find agency to an agency worker under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) in relation to a number of hour go towards discharge any liability to pay contractual remuneration to the agency worker in relation to the same hour . ( 4 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , the hour to which a payment under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) relate be — ( a ) where a shift have be cancel , the hour that would have be work ( by virtue of the worker ' s contract or arrangement between the work - find agency and the agency worker ) if the shift have not be cancel ; ( b ) where a shift have be move , or move and curtail ( at the same time ) , and no part of the shift as move , or as move and curtail , correspond to the time of the shift ( " the original shift " ) before it be move , or move and curtail , the hour that would have be work ( by virtue of the worker ' s contract or arrangement between the work - find agency and the agency worker ) during the original shift ; ( c ) where a shift have be move , or move and curtail ( at the same time ) , and part of the shift as move , or as move and curtail , correspond to the time of the original shift ( but part do not ) , the hour that would have be work ( by virtue of the worker ' s contract or arrangement between the work - find agency and the agency worker ) during the part of the original shift that do not correspond to the shift as move , or as move and curtail ; ( d ) where a shift have be — ( i ) curtail but not move , or ( ii ) move and curtail ( at the same time ) and the shift as move and curtail be to start and end within the time of the original shift , the hour that would have be work ( by virtue of the worker ' s contract or arrangement between the work - find agency and the agency worker ) if the shift have not be curtail , or move and curtail . complaint to employment tribunal 25 ( 1 ) an agency worker may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that , in relation to a shift , the work - find agency — ( a ) have fail to make the whole or any part of a payment that the work - find agency be liable to make to the agency worker under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) ; ( b ) have unreasonably fail to give to the agency worker a notice under paragraph 23 ( 4 ) ; ( c ) have give to the agency worker a notice in purport compliance with paragraph 23 ( 4 ) that — ( i ) do not refer to any provision of the regulation or refer to the wrong provision ; ( ii ) do not contain an explanation or contain an explanation that be inadequate or untrue . ( 2 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) relate to a payment unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the day on or before which the payment should have be make ( see paragraph 21 ( 2 ) ) . ( 3 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) relate to a notice unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the day on or before which the notice should have be give ( see paragraph 23 ( 7 ) ( b ) ) . ( 4 ) an employment tribunal must not consider a complaint under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( c ) relate to a notice unless it be present before the end of the period of six month begin with the day after the day on which the notice be give . ( 5 ) but , if the employment tribunal be satisfied that it be not reasonably practicable for a complaint under this paragraph to be present before the end of the relevant period of six month , the tribunal may consider the complaint if it be present within such further period as the tribunal consider reasonable . ( 6 ) section 207b ( extension of time limit to facilitate conciliation before institution of proceeding ) apply for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . ( 7 ) where — ( a ) an agency worker present a complaint to an employment tribunal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( c ) that , in relation to a shift , the work - find agency have give to the agency worker a notice in purport compliance with paragraph 23 ( 4 ) that refer to the wrong provision of the regulation or contain an explanation that be inadequate or untrue , and ( b ) the work - find agency claim that it be provide by the hirer with information for the purpose of the notice that be wrong , inadequate or untrue , the work - find agency may request the employment tribunal to direct that the hirer be add as a party to the proceeding . ( 8 ) a request under sub - paragraph ( 7 ) must be grant if it be make before the hearing of the complaint begin , but may be refuse if it be make after that time ; and no such request may be make after the tribunal have make its decision as to whether the complaint be well - found . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide that sub - paragraph ( 7 ) do not apply in relation to a hirer of a specified description . remedy 26 ( 1 ) where an employment tribunal find a complaint under paragraph 25 ( 1 ) ( a ) well - found , the tribunal must — ( a ) make a declaration to that effect , and ( b ) order the work - find agency to pay to the agency worker the amount of the payment under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) which it find be due to the agency worker . ( 2 ) where an employment tribunal find a complaint under paragraph 25 ( 1 ) ( b ) or ( c ) well - found , the tribunal — ( a ) must make a declaration to that effect , and ( b ) may order the work - find agency to make a payment to the agency worker of such amount , not exceed the specified amount , as the tribunal consider just and equitable in all the circumstance . ( 3 ) but an employment tribunal may not make an order under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) relate to a notice give in purport compliance with paragraph 23 ( 4 ) if the tribunal make an order under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) relate to the same payment to which the notice relate . ( 4 ) in determine — ( a ) whether to make an order under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) , and ( b ) if so , how much to order the work - find agency to pay , an employment tribunal must have regard , in particular , to the seriousness of the matter complain of . ( 5 ) if , follow the making of a request under paragraph 25 ( 7 ) , an employment tribunal have add the hirer as a party to the proceeding and the tribunal — ( a ) find the complaint under paragraph 25 ( 1 ) ( c ) well - found ( so far as relate to the notice refer to the wrong provision of the regulation or contain an explanation that be inadequate or untrue ) , ( b ) make an award of compensation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) , and ( c ) also find that the hir do provide the work - find agency with information for the purpose of the notice that be wrong , inadequate or untrue , it may order that the compensation be to be pay by the hirer instead of by the work - find agency , or partly by the hir and partly by the work - find agency ( with the amount of the compensation payable by each be such amount as the tribunal consider just and equitable in the circumstance ) . recovery of payment by work - find agency from hirer : pre - exist arrangement 27 ( 1 ) where , in compliance with paragraph 21 ( 1 ) , a work - find agency make a payment to an agency worker in relation to a shift that the agency worker be to be , or be , supply to work by virtue of a pre - exist arrangement involve the work - find agency and the hir , the work - find agency be entitle to recover from the hir the proportion of the payment ( up to the full amount of it ) that reflect the hir ' s responsibility for the shift have be cancel , move or curtail at short notice . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide that sub - paragraph ( 1 ) do not apply in relation to a hirer of a specified description . ( 3 ) a " pre - exist arrangement " mean an arrangement — ( a ) that be enter into on or before the last day of the period of two month begin with the day on which the Employment Rights Act 2025 be pass , and ( b ) that have not be modify by the work - find agency and the hir after the last day of that period . ( 4 ) the reference in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) to a payment make in compliance with paragraph 21 ( 1 ) include a payment make by virtue of an order under paragraph 26 ( 1 ) ( b ) . ( 5 ) sub - paragraph ( 1 ) apply whether the agency worker be to be , or be , supply to work for and under the supervision and direction of the hirer by the work - find agency or by another person . " " — ( Justin Madders . ) this new schedule insert new Schedule a1 into the Employment Rights Act 1996 which make provision for agency worker which be similar to the provision make in relation to certain non - agency worker by clause 1 to 3 . bring up , and add to the Bill . schedule 1 - consequential Amendments relate to Sections 1 to 3 amendment make : 51 , page 121 , line 6 , after " 27bt , " insert " no . 51 , 27bud ( 5 ) , " . this amendment be consequential on NC33 . amendment 52 , page 121 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( b ) after " 177 of " insert " , or paragraph 7 , 8 , 18 or 25 of Schedule A1 to , " . " this amendment be consequential on NS1 . Amendment 53 , page 121 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( aa ) after paragraph ( cf ) ( insert by sub - paragraph ( a ) ) insert — ( cg ) a payment under paragraph 21 ( 1 ) of Schedule A1 to this Act ( agency worker : payment for a cancel , move or curtail shift ) , " ; " . this amendment be consequential on NS1 . Amendment 54 , page 121 , line 16 , leave out " ( cg ) " and insert " ( ch ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 53 . Amendment 55 , page 122 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( iv ) section 27bud ( 5 ) , or " . this amendment clarify that the right not to be subject to any detriment apply where a worker bring a complaint under section 27bud ( 5 ) . amendment 56 , page 122 , line 17 , leave out from " have " to end of line 21 and insert " ( as the case may be ) — ( a ) fail to comply with the duty impose by section 27ba ( 1 ) , 27BD ( 7 ) or ( 8 ) or 27bf ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , a duty impose by section 27BJ or 27bk or the duty impose by section 27bp ( 1 ) or 27br ( 2 ) , or ( b ) behave as describe in section 27bg ( 3A ) or ( 3b ) , but , for subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) or ( e ) to apply , the claim must be make in good faith . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 21 . it restructure and restate what be in the exist provision and add the provision in paragraph ( b ) . amendment 57 , page 122 , line 23 , after " non - compliance " insert " , or ( as the case may be ) allege behaviour , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 21 . amendment 58 , page 123 , line 5 , at end insert — " 6a after section 47h ( insert by paragraph 6 ) insert — " 47i Agency worker and Schedule a1 right ( 1 ) an agency worker have the right not to be subject to any detriment by any act , or any deliberate failure to act , by a relevant person do on the ground that the agency worker — ( a ) accept , or propose to accept , an offer to enter into a worker ' s contract make in compliance ( or purport compliance ) with the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) of Schedule A1 , ( b ) reject , or propose to reject , an offer to enter into a worker ' s contract make in compliance ( or purport compliance ) with the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) of Schedule A1 , ( c ) decline to work a shift ( or part of a shift ) on the basis of a reasonable belief that there have be a failure to comply with a duty impose by paragraph 13 or 14 of Schedule A1 in relation to the shift , ( d ) bring proceeding under — ( i ) paragraph 7 or 8 of Schedule A1 , ( ii ) paragraph 18 of Schedule A1 , ( iii ) paragraph 25 of Schedule A1 , or ( iv ) section 27bud ( 5 ) , or ( e ) allege the existence of any circumstance which would constitute a ground for bring any proceeding within paragraph ( d ) . ( 2 ) the reference in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) to an agency worker who reject an offer include a reference to an agency worker who be to be treat as have reject an offer ( see paragraph 5 ( 4 ) of Schedule A1 ) . ( 3 ) it be immaterial for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) or ( e ) whether or not there have be ( as the case may be ) — ( a ) a failure to comply with the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) , 4 ( 7 ) or ( 8 ) or 6 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of Schedule A1 , a duty impose by paragraph 13 or 14 of Schedule A1 or the duty impose by paragraph 21 ( 1 ) or 23 ( 4 ) of Schedule A1 , or ( b ) behaviour of the type describe in paragraph 7 ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) or 8 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of Schedule A1 , but , for subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) or ( e ) to apply , the claim must be make ingood faith . ( 4 ) it be sufficient for subsection ( 1 ) ( e ) to apply that the agency worker make the nature of the alleged non - compliance , or ( as the case may be ) the alleged behaviour , reasonably clear to either the relevant person or ( if different ) the person against whom proceeding could be bring . ( 5 ) an agency worker have the right not to be subject to any detriment by any act , or any deliberate failure to act , by a relevant person do on the ground that — ( a ) the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) of Schedule A1 apply in relation to the agency worker and a particular reference period , or ( b ) the relevant person believe that that duty so apply . ( 6 ) this section do not apply where — ( a ) the worker be an employee of the relevant person , and ( b ) the detriment in question amount to dismissal within the meaning of Part 10 . ( 7 ) for the purpose of this section , a person be a " relevant person " , in relation to an agency worker , if the person be ( or have be ) — ( a ) a work - find agency with which the agency worker have a worker ' s contract or an arrangement by virtue of which the agency worker be ( or be to be ) supply to work for and under the supervision and direction of another person ; ( b ) a person for and under the supervision and direction of whom the agency worker be ( or be to be ) supply to work ; ( c ) a person who be ( or be to be ) involve in the supply of the agency worker to a person fall within paragraph ( b ) or the payment of the agency worker for work do for such a person . ( 8 ) in this section — " agency worker " have the same meaning as in Part 2A ( see section 27bua ) ; " reference period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of Schedule A1 ( see paragraph 1 ( 4 ) ) ; " work - find agency " have the same meaning as in Part 2A ( see section 27bua ) . " " this amendment be consequential on NS1 . Amendment 59 , page 123 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) after subsection ( 1ba ) ( insert by sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ) insert — ( 1bb ) an agency worker ( within the meaning of Part 2A ) may present a complaint to an employment tribunal that the agency worker have be subject to a detriment in contravention of section 47i . " " this amendment be consequential on amendment 58 . amendment 60 , page 123 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) after subsection ( 2A ) insert — " ( 2b ) on a complaint under subsection ( 1bb ) it be for the relevant person ( within the meaning of section 47i ) to show the ground on which any act , or deliberate failure to act , be do . " ( 5 ) in subsection ( 4 ) , in the word after paragraph ( b ) , after " hir " insert " , or a relevant person ( within the meaning of section 47i ) , " . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 6 ) , after " 49 " insert " , except so far as relate to an alleged detriment in contravention of section 47i , " . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 58 . amendment 61 , page 123 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) after subsection ( 1A ) insert — " ( 1b ) where an employment tribunal find a complaint under section 48 ( 1bb ) well - found , the tribunal — ( a ) must make a declaration to that effect , and ( b ) may make an award of compensation to be pay by the relevant person ( within the meaning of section 47i ) to the complainant in respect of the act or failure to act to which the complaint relate . " " this amendment be consequential on amendment 58 . amendment 62 , page 123 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) in that subsection , after " ( 7a ) " insert " and ( 7b ) " . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 58 . amendment 63 , page 123 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) after subsection ( 7a ) ( insert by sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ) insert — " ( 7b ) where — ( a ) the complaint be make under section 48 ( 1bb ) , ( b ) the detriment to which the agency worker be subject be the termination of a worker ' s contract between the agency worker and the relevant person , and ( c ) that contract be not a contract of employment , any compensation must not exceed the compensation that would be payable under chapter 2 of Part 10 if the agency worker have be an employee and have be dismiss for a reason specify in section 104BB ( and " agency worker " and " relevant person " have the same meaning in this subsection as in section 47i ) . " " this amendment be consequential on amendment 58 . Amendment 64 , page 124 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) an employee who be dismiss be also to be regard for the purpose of this part as unfairly dismiss if the reason ( or , if more than one , the principal reason ) for the dismissal be that the employee — ( a ) bring proceeding against the employer under section 27bg ( 3A ) or ( 3b ) , or ( b ) allege the existence of any circumstance which would constitute a ground for bring such proceeding . ( in relation to other proceeding under section 27bg , see section 104 . ) ( 2b ) it be immaterial for the purpose of subsection ( 2A ) whether or not the employer have behave as describe in section 27bg ( 3A ) or ( 3b ) but , for subsection ( 2A ) to apply , the claim must be make in good faith . ( 2C ) it be sufficient for subsection ( 2A ) ( b ) to apply that the employee make the nature of the employer ' s allege behaviour reasonably clear to the employer . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 21 . amendment 65 , page 124 , line 15 , at end insert — " 9A after section 104BA ( insert by paragraph 9 ) insert — " 104BB guarantee hour : agency worker ( 1 ) an employee who be dismiss by a relevant person ( who be their employer ) be to be regard for the purpose of this part as unfairly dismiss if the reason ( or , if more than one , the principal reason ) for the dismissal be that the employee — ( a ) accept , or propose to accept , an offer to enter into a worker ' s contract make in compliance ( or purport compliance ) with the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) of Schedule A1 , or ( b ) reject , or propose to reject , an offer to enter into a worker ' s contract make in compliance ( or purport compliance ) with the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) of Schedule A1 . ( 2 ) the reference in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) to an employee who reject an offer include a reference to an employee who be to be treat as have reject an offer ( see paragraph 5 ( 4 ) of Schedule A1 ) . ( 3 ) an employee who be dismiss by a relevant person ( who be their employer ) be also to be regard for the purpose of this part as unfairly dismiss if the reason ( or , if more than one , the principal reason ) for the dismissal be that the employee — ( a ) bring proceeding against the employer under paragraph 8 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , or ( b ) allege the existence of any circumstance which would constitute a ground for bring such proceeding . ( in relation to other proceeding under paragraph 8 , see section 104 . ) ( 4 ) it be immaterial for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) whether or not the employer have behave as describe in paragraph 8 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) but , for subsection ( 3 ) to apply , the claim must be make in good faith . ( 5 ) it be sufficient for subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) to apply that the employee make the nature of the employer ' s allege behaviour reasonably clear to the employer . ( 6 ) an employee who be dismiss by a relevant person ( who be their employer ) be also to be regard for the purpose of this part as unfairly dismiss if — ( a ) the duty impose by paragraph 1 ( 1 ) of Schedule A1 apply in relation to the employee and a particular reference period , or the employer believe that that duty so apply , and ( b ) the reason ( or , if more than one , the principal reason ) for the dismissal be that the employer seek to avoid the necessity of that duty have to be comply with in relation to the employee and the reference period . ( 7 ) in this section — " reference period " have the same meaning as in Part 1 of Schedule A1 ( see paragraph 1 ( 4 ) ) ; " relevant person " mean a person fall within subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) or ( c ) of section 47i . " " this amendment be consequential on NS1 . amendment 66 , page 124 , line 23 , at end insert " , or ( c ) the reason specify in subsection ( 2A ) of that section ( read with subsection ( 2B ) and ( 2C ) of that section ) . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 64 . Amendment 67 , page 124 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( b ) after subsection ( 7BZA ) ( insert by paragraph ( a ) ) insert — " ( 7bzb ) this subsection apply if the reason ( or , if more than one , the principal reason ) for which the employee be select for dismissal be — ( a ) the reason specify in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) of section 104BB , ( b ) the reason specify in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) of that section ( read with subsection ( 2 ) of that section ) , or ( c ) the reason specify in subsection ( 3 ) of that section ( read with subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of that section ) . " " this amendment be consequential on amendment 65 . amendment 68 , page 124 , leave out line 26 to 28 and insert — " ( gha ) any of the follow provision of section 104ba apply — ( i ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( 3 ) , ( ii ) subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( read with subsection ( 2 ) of that section ) , or ( iii ) subsection ( 2A ) ( read with subsection ( 2B ) and ( 2C ) of that section ) , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 64 . amendment 69 , page 124 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( b ) after paragraph ( gha ) ( insert by paragraph ( a ) ) insert — " ( ghb ) any of the follow provision of section 104BB apply — ( i ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) , ( ii ) subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( read with subsection ( 2 ) of that section ) , or ( iii ) subsection ( 3 ) ( read with subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of that section ) , " . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 65 . amendment 70 , page 124 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 3 ) the remedy of an agency worker ( within the meaning of part 2A ) for infringement of any of the right confer by Parts 1 to 3 of Schedule A1 and section 47i be , where provision be make for a complaint to an employment tribunal , by way of such a complaint and not otherwise . " " this amendment be consequential on NS1 and amendment 58 . amendment 71 , page 125 , line 4 , leave out from " be " to end of line 6 and insert " — ( a ) where the complaint be under section 27bg ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 5 ) , the late day of the reference period to which the complaint relate on which the worker be employ by the employer under a worker ' s contract ; ( b ) where the complaint be under section 27bg ( 6 ) — ( i ) the date on which the complaint be present to the employment tribunal , or ( ii ) if the worker be not employ by the employer under a worker ' s contract on that date , the late day before that date on which the worker be so employ . " " this amendment supplement the amendment of section 225 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 by add a calculation date for determine the permit maximum for an award of compensation where an employer breach an information duty impose by propose section 27bf of that Act ( result in a complaint under propose section 27bg ( 6 ) ) . amendment 72 , page 125 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( A2 ) where the calculation be for the purpose of section 27bi as apply by section 27bud ( 6 ) ( a ) in relation to a complaint under section 27bud ( 5 ) , the calculation date be the late day of the reference period to which the complaint relate on which the worker be employ by the employer under a worker ' s contract . " this amendment be consequential on NC33 . amendment 73 , page 125 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( ) in subsection ( 1 ) , in paragraph ( b ) of the definition of " week " , after " 86 " insert " and paragraph 10 of Schedule a1 " " . this amendment be consequential on NS1 . Amendment 74 , page 125 , line 19 , after " 27bu ( 2 ) , " insert " 27BUE , " . this amendment will make regulation under section 27bue ( see nc33 ) subject to the affirmative procedure . amendment 75 , page 125 , line 19 , leave out " 27BW , " this amendment be consequential on amendment 48 . amendment 76 , page 125 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( b ) after " 209 , " insert " or under paragraph 1 ( 3 ) ( b ) , ( 6 ) or ( 10 ) , 2 ( 2 ) , ( 5 ) or ( 7 ) ( c ) , 4 ( 6 ) , 11 ( 1 ) , 12 ( 3 ) , 13 ( 2 ) , 14 ( 3 ) , 15 ( 4 ) , 21 ( 1 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 5 ) , 23 ( 1 ) ( c ) or ( 2 ) , 25 ( 9 ) , 26 ( 2 ) or 27 ( 2 ) of Schedule A1 , " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment be consequential on NS1 . the regulation - make power refer to in this amendment be the one that will be subject to affirmative parliamentary procedure . schedule 2 - right not to be unfairly dismiss : removal of qualifying period , etc amendment make : 77 , page 126 , line 15 , at end insert " or subsection ( 2A ) of that section ( read with subsection ( 2B ) and ( 2C ) of that section ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 64 . amendment 78 , page 126 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( ja ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( 6 ) of section 104BB , subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) of that section ( read with subsection ( 2 ) of that section ) or subsection ( 3 ) of that section ( read with subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of that section ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 65 . amendment 240 , page 126 , leave out line 23 and 24 . this amendment ensure that , when section 108A of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( insert by paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Bill ) come into force , section 104I of that Act ( insert by clause 24 of the Bill ) will not apply to the dismissal of an employee if , at the time of dismissal , the employee have not yet start work . Amendment 241 , page 128 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( ) in paragraph 160 ( right not to be subject to detriment : compensation ) , in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) — ( i ) for " 124 ( 1 ) " substitute " 124 " ; ( ii ) at the end insert " ( ignore any different sum specify as the limit for a dismissal that meet the condition in section 98ZZA ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of that Act ) . " ; " . paragraph 156 of Schedule A1 to the Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 provide that a worker have the right not to be subject to any detriment by the worker ' s employer result from , among other thing , the worker support recognition of a trade union . paragraph 160 of that Schedule provide that the compensation payable where such detriment consist of the termination of the worker ' s contract be subject to a limit calculate by reference to the maximum amount of a compensatory award for an employee who have be unfairly dismiss . this amendment would make it clear that the relevant figure for this calculation remain the standard maximum , not any different amount specify for case where an employee be dismiss during the initial period of employment . amendment 242 , page 130 , line 5 , at begin insert — " ( 1 ) the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 24 ( enforcement of right not to be subject to detriment ) , in subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) — ( a ) for " 124 ( 1 ) " substitute " 124 " ; ( b ) after " section 123 of that Act " insert " ( ignore any different sum specify as the limit for a dismissal that meet the condition in section 98ZZA ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of that Act ) " . " section 23 of the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 provide that a worker have the right not to be subject to any detriment by the worker ' s employer result from , among other thing , the worker seek to enforce the right to the minimum wage . section 24 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) of that Act provide that the compensation payable where such detriment consist of the termination of the worker ' s contract be subject to a limit calculate by reference to the maximum amount of a compensatory award for an employee who have be unfairly dismiss . this amendment would make it clear that the relevant figure for this calculation remain the standard maximum , not any different amount specify for case where an employee be dismiss during the initial period of employment . amendment 243 , page 130 , line 28 , at begin insert — " ( 1 ) in Part 1 of the Pensions Act 2008 ( pension scheme membership for jobholder ) , chapter 3 ( safeguard : employment and pre - employment ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 56 ( enforcement of right not to be subject to detriment ) , in subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) — ( a ) for " 124 ( 1 ) " substitute " 124 " ; ( b ) at the end insert " ( ignore any different sum specify as the limit for a dismissal that meet the condition in section 98ZZA ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of that Act ) . " " — ( Justin Madders . ) section 55 of the Pensions Act 2008 provide that a worker have the right not to be subject to any detriment by the worker ' s employer result from , among other thing , the worker seek to enforce the duty impose by that Act in relation to pension enrolment . section 56 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) of that Act provide that the compensation payable where such detriment consist of the termination of the worker ' s contract be subject to a limit calculate by reference to the maximum amount of a compensatory award for an employee who have be unfairly dismiss . this amendment would make it clear that the relevant figure for this calculation remain the standard maximum , not any different amount specify for case where an employee be dismiss during the initial period of employment . schedule 3 - pay and condition of school support staff in England Amendments make : 244 , page 138 , line 8 , leave out " ( 6 ) " and insert " ( 7 ) " . this amendment correct an incorrect cross - reference . Amendment 245 , page 138 , line 39 , leave out " ( 6 ) " and insert " ( 7 ) " . — ( Justin Madders . ) this amendment correct an incorrect cross - reference . Bill to be far consider tomorrow . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Ecclesiastical Law that the draft Grants to the Churches Conservation Trust Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 28 January , be approve . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) question agree to . Petition - propose 24 - hour adult gaming centre in Whitby I rise to present a petition about the proposal for a 24 - hour casino in Whitby . I hope very much that plan officer take note of the petition , which have be sign on paper by seven of my constituent and online by a further 412 . it express the concern of Whitby resident about a planning application submit by Luxury Leisure to open a 24 - hour adult gaming centre at Baxtergate in Whitby . they be particularly disappointed that the site of the propose gaming centre be that of the Halifax bank branch , which be due to close shortly , leave the town without any bank branch . the petition far declare that what resident of Whitby want be access to bank , shop and service , and not a 24 - hour gaming centre . it state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage North Yorkshire Council to reject the application for a 24 - hour adult gaming centre at the site on Baxtergate , Whitby . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the constituency of Scarborough and Whitby , declare that resident of Whitby be very strongly concerned that a planning application have be make by the slot and gambling company , Luxury Leisure , to open a 24 - hour adult gaming centre at 67 - 68 Baxtergate in Whitby ; far declare that the gaming centre may cause issue with noise and anti - social behaviour ; note that , as at 6 March 2025 , North Yorkshire Council have receive 522 objection to the application , whereas only 6 people have support it ; further note that resident be particularly disappointed that the site of the propose gaming centre be that of the Halifax bank branch , which be due to close in May 2025 , leave the town without any bank branch ; and far declare that what resident of Whitby want be access to bank , shop and service , and not the propose 24 - hour gaming centre . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage North Yorkshire Council to reject the application for a 24 - hour adult gaming centre at the site on Baxtergate , Whitby . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003052 ] European Remembrance Day for Victims of Terrorism Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) through you , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I thank Mr Speaker for select this Adjournment debate ? today be 11 March , and on every 11 March since the dreadful bombing in Madrid in 2004 , it have be the European Remembrance Day for Victims of Terrorism . this occasion give we the opportunity to reflect on terror and the innocent victim of terror . it give the House the opportunity to reflect on the impact that act of terror have have on the institution of the House of Commons . when I be elect in 2015 , I enter Parliament alongside Jo Cox , who be memorialise behind I . she be cut down by a far - right extremist . I serve for many a year with David Amess and have a great relationship with he , and he be strike down by an islamic terrorist . when you look to either side of the Chamber , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will note that under the door there be three heraldic plaque : one to Rev . Robert Bradford , one to Ian Gow and one to Airey Neave , all of whom be serve parliamentarian when they be cut down by irish republican terrorist . it be little known that behind your Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , there be two further plaque : one to Sir Anthony Berry , who be kill in the Brighton bomb by irish republican terrorist , and one to Sir Henry Wilson , a first world war hero and latterly an Irish Unionist Member of Parliament , who be cut down by irish republican terrorist . occasion like this give we the opportunity to reflect , but it be important for we as parliamentarian to consider what we can do in the good interest of those we represent , and the legacy in Northern Ireland continue to be a sore that have not heal . the scar remain among community of whatever constitutional aspiration , who have be affect by the onslaught of terror that we face . I be privileged to sit on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , but I be even more privileged last week , alongside colleague who be present in the Chamber today , to meet a number of organisation that represent the interest of innocent victim . we meet the 174 Trust , and we meet victim at the WAVE Trauma Centre . we meet victim represent by the South East Fermanagh Foundation — SEFF — which be an organisation that work on behalf of Fermanagh and Enniskillen victim . the most profound thing that they say to we be that , within their county of Fermanagh , 42 people be kill — 40 of they by republican terrorist , and none by loyalist . the people of Fermanagh do not turn to take the law into their own hand ; they put their trust and faith in law and order , and in the part of our state that be there to protect we . that be most profound , because there be no other county in Northern Ireland where that can be say . there be one recur theme throughout the engagement that we have during the course of those two day : victim want truth and justice . I commend my right hon . friend for bring forward this issue . his passion for victim be long - stand and admirable . do he agree that we need to set in stone the truth about victim in Northern Ireland ? for all the attention that be give to 10 % of victim , the family of the 90 % suffer in silence . will this day ensure that true victim ' story be tell and remember without any whitewashing whatsoever ? I appreciate the intervention because there be a task on the part of the Government , with the legislation they be consider at the moment , on storytelling , reconciliation and the narrative that people wish to share . their truth must be tell and their truth know . I thank the right hon . member for give way ; I know his time be precious . I want to associate myself with the remark he make about member of this House who be lose and about the move visit we have last week with victim in Belfast and Fermanagh in relation to people who be murder by perpetrator from various side of the conflict . it show their continue pain and their fortitude , as the opening week of the Omagh inquiry have do . the sdlp support a parallel Dublin inquiry on that . do the right hon . member agree with I that , in the current legacy discussion , a moment — an opportunity — be come when we can assert that the need of victim , not those of perpetrator , have primacy , and that we can not afford to squander that opportunity ? I be very grateful for the intervention from the hon . Lady . I think she be right that we can not squander the opportunity , but for too long now I have hear voice within the Government say that the one thing the party of Northern Ireland can agree on be their opposition to the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , but for very different reason . very often , we do not get the opportunity to fully explore those very different reason , and for our part , we will never stand in the way of justice and we will always support innocent victim . I thank the right hon . member for secure this important debate on such a move subject . I , too , be very honoured to go with he and other member of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee to visit SEFF in Fermanagh last week , and it be profoundly move . do he agree with I that , as part of deal with this legacy , truth , justice and reconciliation must be intentional part of the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery go forward ? it be interesting to hear the reflection of some who say , " why do I need to reconcile ? I ' ve be blow up . I ' ve be shoot . I ' ve lose my father , my mother , my sister , my brother . why be the onus on I to reconcile ? I should be honour for the sacrifice that I ' ve make or be force to go through , but where be somebody come along to say , ' I ' m sorry . you do not deserve what occur to you or your family member , you didn ' t need to live through the pain and you don ' t deserve the scar that you bear . ' ? " so I agree with the hon . member entirely that much more focus be require on reconciliation . as someone who have the honour of host an event on this day for all the year I be a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly , I commend the right hon . member for secure this debate . however , do he agree with I that one of the most abiding and insidious hurt to victim of terrorism be the constant glorification of those who make they victim , particularly when it come to those who sit in Government in Northern Ireland , by their attendance at event commemorate those who be the man of blood and who deliver death and destruction on our street ? be that not one of the most hateful and insidious thing that can be do to a victim , with the re - traumatisation that it bring ? I be very grateful to the hon . and learn Member . I have two thing to say to he on that . first , I be glad he organise — for 13 year , I think — an event at Stormont to mark European Remembrance Day for Victims of Terrorism . such an event also occur yesterday , so his legacy live on , and I be pleased to attend it , as I have on many occasion in the past . secondly , the hon . and learn Member be absolutely right . yesterday , I have the opportunity to meet again — we meet last week , but I meet again yesterday — Margaret Veitch and Ruth Blair , who lose love one in the Enniskillen bomb . I reflect with they , and it resonate so much with this point , on the glorification of terror , particularly from those who have a responsibility to live by the nolan principle and to fulfil the political office they hold , yet who attend commemoration and glorify those who revel in terror . the excuse they always use be , " we have a right to remember our dead . " that be what they say : they have a right to remember their dead . Margaret and Ruth lose family member by simply turn up to remember their war dead on Remembrance Sunday in Enniskillen , yet they hear their political leader say , " we do this because we have an entitlement to remember our war dead . " Margaret and Ruth and their parent be offer no opportunity to remember , rightfully , those who make the sacrifice for freedom in our country . I be very grateful to the right hon . gentleman . he talk of truth and justice . he will be aware that the Northern Ireland ( Sentences ) Act 1998 mean that if prosecution carry on , no one will serve more than two year in jail . if prosecution carry on , people will do everything they can to cover up the truth in defend themselves . when people criticise the legacy Act , which do propose a truth and reconciliation commission , be they not really criticise a measure that would have give they a much well opportunity for the truth to come out , once the threat of prosecution be remove , give that the punishment would not fit the crime even if someone be find guilty ? the right hon . Gentleman know that I have high regard for he . we explore these issue at great length when he chair the Defence Committee and I be but a lowly member of it . the truth be that there be hundred if not thousand of individual in Northern Ireland who have be prosecute already . how often do we see they go to meet their victim , or the family of their victim ? how often do we see they try to apply balm on the wound that have never heal ? and those be the individual who have receive justice . I start to talk about truth and justice before the explosion of intervention . they be important for this debate . for the last number of year , the terminology from this Chamber have be very clearly , " you ' re not go to get justice , but we can offer you truth . and the only way you can get truth be if we deny justice . " that be what the legacy Act present to the people of Northern Ireland . that be why we oppose it . they want justice . they want their day in court . they have have to suffer evasion of justice in Northern Ireland for decade . we do not support the Belfast agreement because of the release of prisoner . we do not support the notion that those who take life could be sentence for two year — sentence for much long , but only have to serve two year . nor do we support on - the - run letter . nor do we support amnesty for terrorist throughout the Labour Government proposal or the Conservative Government proposal , because the approach that deny justice be one that will never allow the wound to heal . I want to reflect on a number of institution we have that be suppose to aid justice , truth and reconciliation in Northern Ireland . one of they be the Office of the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland , which be establish to allow member of the community who do not support the police to buy into the police , to get confidence in the police . yet I be sorry to say in this debate today that we have a police ombudsman in whom I have no confidence — none whatsoever . we have a police ombudsman who construct the notion of collusion . she be strike down by the court , so she construct the notion of collusive behaviour . she be strike down by the court . more recently , she have be miss in action : she be fit to do the job ; she be unfit to do the job ; she be be investigate by the West Midlands police herself . yet whether she be obstruct in her role or not , I will raise one family , one gentleman : Alan Black . Alan Black be a workman who be out to work with his colleague . all of they , bar one , be Protestants . in 1976 in Kingsmill , all bar one be attack by the IRA . when ask to identify themselves , the one individual who identify himself as a Catholic be allow to leave . eleven of Alan ' s colleague be murder that day for no other reason than that they have a protestant faith . Alan survive . he go to the police ombudsman look for answer on the investigation 14 year ago . he have an inquest , which conclude 11 month ago . we hear from the ombudsman ' s office that it be ready to report , but , 11 month later , there have still be no outcome , no publication and no report for Alan . Alan be an old man now . he be an ill man because of the attack . he have suffer greatly , yet he put his faith in the organisation in which he and member of our community should be able to have confidence , and he have receive nothing . the Omagh inquiry start five week ago . the first four week be testimony from the family who lose someone so tragically that day . four month after the Belfast agreement be sign — four month after , when society be mean to be bask in peace — 29 people and two unborn baby be kill that day in Omagh . the inquiry have a cross - border dimension : when the court in Belfast say in 2021 that there should be an inquiry in Omagh , they say there also need to be one in the Republic of Ireland , because the bomb be construct in the Republic of Ireland and be plant by a Provisional IRA bomb team who be operate from the Republic of Ireland , travel from the Republic of Ireland and escape to the Republic of Ireland . the hon . member for Belfast South and Mid Down ( Claire Hanna ) indicate her support for such an inquiry in the south . it be for this reason that answer be require . what do we have so far ? reluctance on the part of the Irish Government — there be nothing new in that . the Irish Government have singularly fail to do anything on legacy apart from criticise the British Government for the past 30 year . during the trouble , they allow people to hide in the Irish Republic , armed people in the Irish Republic and would not extradite terrorist from the Irish Republic , yet today they stand and look square in the eye the family of the 29 Omagh victim and say , " we be sorry — we be not go to do that for you . we be not go to give you answer . " the same bomb team responsible for Omagh be responsible for 20 bombing in 1997 and 1998 . whether it be in Banbridge , Portadown , Lisburn , Newry or Moira — right throughout Northern Ireland — they be make their mark and make their voice hear in the run - up to peace negotiation . it be an outrage . that the Irish Government still stand back and say they will not provide an inquiry be a disgrace . they have offer honey word for year , yet they do nothing to aid the sorrow . they will not provide the condition that would allow we to challenge Garda Dermot Jennings , who be accuse of have say " we will let one more through , lad , " because he know the bombing team . who be go to challenge and question the j2 irish intelligence official and ask they the question ? our inquiry can not do it , because it do not have the power . I know the Government be consider a memorandum of understanding with the Irish Government , and that be important . however , if that do not allow for the production of people as well as paper , it will never work . it be why there have to be an inquiry in the Republic of Ireland , too , and I be glad there be broad support for that . the Committee on the Administration of Justice in Northern Ireland — with which I struggle , Madam Deputy Speaker — publish a brilliant report in the last four week castigate the Irish Republic for its total failure to do anything on legacy over the past 30 year . it have no legacy body , no legacy investigation unit , no historical enquiry team and no ombudsman service ; it have no infrastructure whatsoever to answer question on legacy , and no infrastructure whatsoever to aid the healing of the past . what concern many people in Northern Ireland be that often , when thing happen in Northern Ireland that be of a particular disposition , the Republic of Ireland ' s Government will weigh in heavily to press our Government to do certain thing . however , it seem that on many occasion when thing happen on which our government should make representation to the Republic ' s Government , they fail adequately to do so . my hon . friend be absolutely right . at a summit last week , not one word on these issue emerge , save the Irish Government say they be not yet quite ready to withdraw their challenge against the British Government for the legacy Act . they rule against an amnesty be provide , just as we do , but they decide to challenge their near neighbour in the british Government through the european court . they decide to do that without try to address these issue , yet when the onus be on they — when the shoe be on the other foot — they offer nothing . just this evening , the Northern Ireland Assembly pass a motion to say that the Irish Government should hold an inquiry into Omagh , and I agree . it be amend by the DUP and unanimously support by every party in Stormont . that be a message that I hope that the Minister will take to the Irish Government about the strength of feeling on this issue . we look a lot of victim in the eye last week , but we can not continue , year after year , to look victim in the eye and say nice thing , but offer no hope , offer no truth and offer no justice . let I briefly mention that motion that have just take be debate in the Assembly , which be secure by the Ulster Unionist party and amend by the DUP . we often hear in this place that when all party stand together in the Northern Ireland Assembly , the Government will react . will the right hon . Gentleman join I in ask the Minister to respond to that debate ? Mr Robinson , there be nine minute remain of this Adjournment debate . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — I take that intervention because it be a powerful point , and I be grateful for your latitude . I be delighted that the Minister be here this evening . I hope that she respond positively . I hope that she recognise the pain and the anguish , as she herself have meet individual in Northern Ireland . there be a long way to go on provide the answer , the truth and the justice . we will not be find want , and I hope the Labour Government will not either . it be a pleasure to respond to this important debate this evening . I congratulate the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) on secure it and on speak so eloquently and powerfully on what be for so many people a painful and difficult subject . as the right hon . member describe , act of terrorism in the United Kingdom have have a devastating and unimaginable impact on the individual , family and community affect . indeed , that violence have be bring to our very doorstep , and we stand in solemn remembrance of the member of this House take from we by act of terrorism while represent their constituent . most recently , as the right hon . Member mention , they include Jo Cox , brutally murder in 2016 , and Sir David Amess , brutally murder in 2021 . both die while serve their constituent . I know they both , as the right hon . Member do , and miss they , and I feel their loss very personally . those whom we have sadly lose to terrorism be forever remember , by their family , by their love one and by a nation that stand still , and importantly stand together , when these tragedy occur . as the right hon . Member say , act of terrorism have have a pronounce effect on community in Northern Ireland , where over 3 , 000 people be kill by terrorist during the course of the trouble . behind every individual murder be the countless family member and other whose life be change forever by unthinkable loss in heartbreaking circumstance . I have listen to many of those harrowing story personally . recent research remind we that as many as 30 % of people in Northern Ireland have conflict - relate trauma , and that this can be pass down the generation , too , and we must never forget that . thankfully , today Northern Ireland be a place of relative peace and stability . however , the threat from terrorism remain , with the current threat to Northern Ireland from Northern Ireland - relate terrorism assess as substantial . I wish to pay tribute to the Police Service of Northern Ireland and the security service that continue to work tirelessly to keep we safe . I have the privilege of attend the Police Federation for Northern Ireland award last week in Belfast to celebrate and honour the bravery of some of the exceptional officer who put their life on the line for we every day . in Northern Ireland , many group mark a day of reflection on 21 June to acknowledge the pain and suffering cause by the trouble and reflect on what more we can do . sadly , memorial , remembrance and commemoration can be challenging and even divisive . that be why this Government , in seek to address the legacy of the trouble , be commit to bring forward a memorialisation strategy to support inclusive structure and initiative to help all in Northern Ireland , include future generation , to reflect on those lose . and we will continue to work to support those civil society group that be work tirelessly to promote reconciliation . the right hon . Member mention SEFF and the WAVE Trauma Centre , which come to Westminster . many be the subject of portrait in the " Silent Testimony " exhibition by Colin Davidson , which be in the National Portrait Gallery . I recommend member pay a visit there . I thank the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) secure this debate . as part of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee I meet victim from all side last week , but I especially want to highlight the incredible work of WAVE in support victim of terrorism . do the Minister agree that those organisation be crucial for support victim from all side , and we should do all we can to support they ? I agree , and I be glad that WAVE and SEFF have be mention this evening . nhs service be also vital for specialist trauma counselling , such as the regional trauma network , which I visit with Minister Nesbitt . on the legacy Act , acknowledge and address the suffering of victim of violence be an important aim of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , but I agree that the task remain incomplete . the Government take their responsibility to victim and survivor of the trouble extremely seriously , which be why we have be work with victim , survivor and all interested party to correct the mistake of the last government , and to put in place measure that will provide answer , accountability and acknowledgment for family who have wait too long already . in December , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland lay a draft remedial order to correct several of the human right deficiency of the legacy Act , include remove the bitterly opposed conditional immunity scheme , which would have grant immunity from prosecution for those who carry out the most appalling terrorist crime . the Secretary of State will introduce primary legislation that will reform and strengthen the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery . the right hon . member for Belfast East refer to the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland . the Government be pleased that the ombudsman recently return to work follow an extended period of absence . it would not be appropriate for I to comment on the legal proceeding , but for family who be wait to receive the ombudsman ' s report , I understand the concern and frustration with publication delay . many family have already encounter too much delay in seek information and accountability . I know that the ombudsman ' s office be do all that it can to publish report . will the Minister give way ? I be afraid I do not have time , because I want to respond to the issue that the right hon . member for Belfast East raise . the right hon . Member rightly highlight that a number of trouble - relate case have a cross - border dimension , include the Kingsmill murder , which be an appalling example of the pain and suffering inflict on civilian during the trouble . it be right to acknowledge that the implementation of truly holistic legacy mechanism , which can provide family across the UK and Ireland with as much information as possible about the circumstance of their particular case , will require the co - operation of both the UK and Irish government to facilitate the disclosure of information hold by authority in both jurisdiction . this government consider the Irish Government to be an essential partner in the process of seek a way forward on legacy issue that be human right compliant and can command public confidence across community . turn to the Omagh bombing inquiry , last month ' s commemorative hearing be a painful reminder of the impact of cowardly terrorist action on community and family . victim do not need hearing , inquiry or commemorative day to know that ; they live with it every day . the Secretary of State have receive political assurance from the Irish Government on their full co - operation with the UK inquiry . that be important and should be welcome . the Irish Government be currently work at pace to determine how to facilitate that in practice through a memorandum of understanding . the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment in the Chamber today will not have go unnoticed . the detail of those arrangement be ultimately a matter for the inquiry , which rightly be independent of the Government , but I agree with he that they should provide for the great possible level of co - operation from irish authority . the Government look forward to see those detail in due course . in the meantime , our focus remain on ensure that the UK inquiry that have be establish can successfully fulfil its term of reference . I close by remember all those who have be kill by cowardly terrorist act . I pay tribute to everyone who be carry on — not get over what happen , but get on and work around the gap of the people they lose , or of their own life that they have before , despite the grief that can engulf they . they be get up every day when it be not get easy , remember people who should be here and be not . they be not give up on get answer and justice for their relative , family and friend . in the memory of all who have die , we will keep take action against terrorism and for peace and justice . we will remember . question put and agree to . House adjourn .