Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — National Insurance Contributions if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) bill on the cost of deliver public service . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the propose increase in employer national insurance contribution on public sector organisation . as we set out in the autumn statement , the Government have set aside funding to support the public sector with the additional cost of employer national insurance contribution . the amount be £ 4 . 7 billion in 2025 - 26 , £ 4 . 7 billion in 2026 - 27 , £ 4 . 8 billion in 2027 - 28 , £ 4 . 9 billion in 2028 - 29 and £ 5 . 1 billion in 2029 - 30 . the Government plan to update Parliament on allocation by Department as soon as possible . labour ' s national insurance increase will cost Dundee city council a minimum of £ 7 . 3 million , while across Scotland an additional £ 500 million will be incur , rise to £ 750 million when indirect employer such as GP practice be include . Labour promise to reset the relationship with the devolved administration , so , ahead of Scotland ' s Budget this week , will the Minister confirm that the full cost of the national insurance contribution increase to the delivery of public service in Scotland will be reimburse ? the funding for the impact on public sector organisation include fund for the devolved government , which be allocate through the Barnett formula in the usual way . it be the responsibility of the devolve government to manage devolve workforce . might I say that if the bill be somewhat high in Scotland , that may be due to the Scottish Government ' s decision about the size of the public sector ? a major housing association serve not only Plympton , Plymstock and Ivybridge in my constituency but the rest of Plymouth and other part of Devon and Cornwall will have to shoulder three quarter of a million pound in increase national insurance contribution . that be money that could have be spend on new home for some of the most vulnerable in my constituency . how will the Minister reassure my constituent patiently wait for much - need social housing when they realise that they will have to wait long because of the Chancellor ' s decision ? we recognise that the decision on national insurance contribution be a tough one , but we also recognise that it be necessary for the Chancellor to set out a Budget that include a record set of promise on home building . we be set to build 1 . 5 million home over the course of this Parliament , invest in social and affordable housing . that be what will benefit the hon . member ' s constituent who need a decent home . the shadow Chancellor be tour the tv studio this morning to say that the conservative party do nothing wrong in government . will my hon . friend confirm that the reason for the change to national insurance be precisely to plug the £ 22 billion gap that the Conservatives cause and to ensure that our constituent can get a hospital or gp appointment ? I think that fit with the question , somehow . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the problem with Conservative Members be that they be all happy to say that they want more funding for the NHS ; they be just not prepared to pay for it . what they need to realise be that , in government , we have to take tough decision to ensure that we can fund public service and fix the public finance . what reassurance can the Minister give to hospice such as Julia ' s House , which serve my constituent , which be concern by the plan increase in national insurance contribution and the impact that will have on the service they provide ? as my hon . friend will know , many hospice be independent charity and therefore will be able to access the employment allowance , which we have double to £ 10 , 500 a year , as well as the other wide tax relief in the tax system for charity , such as business rate relief and gift aid . of course , hospice often have statutory obligation with the NHS as well , so I suggest that hospice discuss their contract with their integrate care board . I call the shadow Minister . later today , the House will vote on the Government ' s £ 25 billion national insurance tax hike . to avoid any uncertainty when we vote , will the Minister confirm exactly which public sector organisation will be compensate ? if the shadow Minister would like to know which public sector organisation will be compensate , he could look at what his Government do with the health and social care levy , because the definition of public sector organisation — it be a regularly cite definition — be set out through the Office for National Statistics . we will reimburse Departments and other public sector organisation . there be so little information in that response — the civil service will be very proud of the Minister . he will not say who will be spare by the Chancellor ' s tax raid , but we know that work people will be make to pay — the Office for Budget Responsibility have say so ; the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say so ; even the Resolution Foundation have say so ; and work people know so . why be it that Labour always leave office with unemployment high than when it enter office ? I do not think the shadow Minister listen to my response to the previous question , in which I set out very clearly the definition of the public sector for the purpose of national insurance contribution . look at what the OBR have say : yes , it recognise that we be ask business to contribute more and that this will have an impact , but it also say that the employment level will rise from 33 . 1 million to 34 . 3 million by 2029 , mean an increase in the employment level over this Parliament . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Citizens Advice in St Albans support some of the most vulnerable people to access public service . it say that the change to national insurance contribution will " hit hard because we employ mostly part - time staff and the change to the threshold mean we go from pay nothing to the full amount for each staff member . the increase rebate be intend to offset the NIC for small organisation but do not for we because so many of our staff be part - time . " will the Chancellor look again at the impact of the national insurance contribution change on part - time worker ? we recognise that we have take a tough decision to increase the rate and broaden the base through change to the secondary threshold . I welcome the work do by the organisation mention by the hon . Lady in her constituency , but perhaps the need for advice would be less if public service be strong . one of the reason we be take these difficult decision on taxation , welfare and spending be precisely to ensure that these public service can provide the service that people need . we all want to see strong public service . accord to Hightown Housing Association , the estimate extra total cost of the national insurance contribution change will be £ 860 , 000 per year — money that would allow the association to pay the interest on a loan of around £ 17 million , which would pay for around 60 social home . will the Chancellor say whether she will conduct an impact assessment of these national insurance contribution change on the number of social home ? the Liberal Democrat spokesperson begin her question by say that we all want public service ; the problem be that not all of we in this Chamber be prepared to pay for they . that be exactly why we have to take difficult decision to ensure that we can fund our ambitious plan for the NHS , education and indeed housing . the impact of the impact assessment be publish in the tax information and impact note , which be publish alongside the legislation , which I be sure the hon . Lady will have see . it come down to the basic point that we have to make tough decision on taxation if we want to fund those public service . affordable Housing what fiscal step she be take with Cabinet colleague to increase the supply of affordable housing . at the Budget , the Government announce major step towards deliver a once - in - a - generation increase in social housing , include a £ 500 million boost to the affordable home programme , increase annual spend to £ 3 . 1 billion . the Government will set out future grant investment beyond the current affordable home programme at phase 2 of the spending review . in Stoke - on - Trent and Kidsgrove there be many historic building that be lie dormant , and they have do so for a very long time . what step will the Chancellor take to help to bring these beautiful building back into use as affordable home for local people ? stoke - on - Trent have a proud industrial history and some beautiful building . my hon . friend make an important point — I will raise it with colleague at the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . the £ 500 million boost to the affordable home programme also allow up to 10 % of that delivery to come from acquire exist home . social landlord , include some local authority , can bid for funding to bring empty home back into use for social housing . many of my constituent have benefit over many year from the right to buy their council home and social housing , which have give they an important step on to the ladder to home ownership . the discount in Staffordshire be go to be cut to £ 16 , 000 . I do not doubt that the Chancellor , like I , want to help as many people as possible on to the path to home ownership . will she pledge to review that decision with regard to the impact it will have on so many people , and look at restore that discount in future ? as the right hon . Gentleman will know , home ownership fall under the previous Government . we be determined to turn that around and ensure that more people , particularly family , get on to the housing ladder . as he have confirm , the right to buy discount will continue , but in future every penny of that money will go back into build new social housing , so that more people can have a home of their own and a roof over their head . Financial Conduct Authority if she will make an assessment of the potential implication for her policy of the APPG for investment fraud and fair financial service ' publication entitle " Report on the call for evidence about the Financial Conduct Authority " , publish on 26 November 2024 . I read that report with great interest and have a lot of sympathy for those who suffer . however , a lot of the incident describe happen a very long time ago . the FCA have make substantial change in response to those experience . that do not mean the end of our engagement with the FCA , but we be continue to hold it to account and it have make change since the report come to light . the FCA have be completely defensive in response to the report . since the historical element quote by the FCA , 13 major scandal have erupt . I will not intrude on your time , Mr Speaker , because I be sure that you would not want I to list they all , but Woodford Equity , car finance and other have come to light since the detail come out . clearly , there be a need to fundamentally reform the FCA so that victim of scandal be properly compensate and the industry be properly regulate in the way that we would all like to see . I understand that lot of people have suffer , as the report explain , which I say I have read . however , I do have confidence in the FCA ; I have send it remit letter outline what we expect it to do to deliver on its objective . the FCA be look at certain thing such as its rulebook , which we think be too extensive , to look at rule that no long need to be apply but , overall , we be work with the FCA closely and we believe that it be try its good . it be not possible to have a system where nothing ever go wrong , but we be try to minimise that and ensure that there be consumer protection . the FCA know that we be work together to deliver on its objective . money and Pensions Service what assessment she have make of the adequacy of funding for the Money and Pensions Service . the Money and Pensions Service play a vital role in support individual to manage their money effectively . its funding level be regularly review to reflect demand , inflation and evolving need . new research from the Centre for responsible Credit show that 7 . 5 million people in this country be go without the debt advice that they need . we be in a cost of living crisis , so service be severely stretch . the Money and Pensions Service underestimate need by exclude people who be behind with their bill . that mean that the financial levy that it propose be not what it need to be . since a third of those who need financial help borrow from buy now , pay later lender , and give the delay in regulate those company , will the Minister meet I to look at the funding model of the financial levy and what more we can do to ensure that those profit from exploit our constituent pay to repair the damage ? my hon . friend have be a tireless campaigner on this issue . we be reform buy now , pay later , as the Economic Secretary recently state in answer to my hon . friend in the House . the Government recognise the gap between those who need debt and those access it , which be why the Money and Pensions Service be explore way to improve accessibility , include through outreach initiative . we continue to keep a close eye on its funding level to ensure that they reflect demand . the Money and Pensions Service do tremendous work to support people in my constituency who come to surgery in desperate need — particularly those face crippling debt — as do organisation such as Christians against Poverty . would the Government consider put more money behind the Money and Pensions Service , not just for staffing but for visibility and presence in local community ? would they consider the proposal that other have make to make our post office a shop window for Government service in our community , include such advice ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the Money and Pensions Service commission other charity , particularly to work with hard - to - reach vulnerable people . we continue to review its funding and we keep a close eye on the evolve demand and need for its service . taxation : Online Multinational Corporations what step she be take to increase the level of tax pay by online multinational corporation . ensure that online multinational pay their fair share of tax be crucial , so the Government be finalise the implementation of internationally agree rule for a minimum 15 % effective rate globally . as set out in the corporate tax road map , we be seek an international solution for a fair tax allocation of multinational profit . meanwhile , the digital service tax ensure that search engine , social medium platform and online marketplace pay UK tax reflect a UK - derive value . Amazon currently make hundred of million of pound in profit in the UK each year , and often get away with pay little to no corporation tax . meanwhile , high street business in Weymouth , Portland and Swanage in my constituency pay their fair share . to level the play field , will the Chancellor consider further measure to ensure that online giant always pay their fair share of tax ? I fear that , without action , our high street will always be at an unfair disadvantage . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and support the high street be at the heart of our ambition when it come to business rate reform . on Second reading of the Finance Bill last week , in which I speak , we set out our plan to issue permanently low tax rate for high street retail , hospitality and leisure property . that will be pay for through an increase in the tax rate on property with a rateable value above £ 500 , 000 , a category that include the warehouse use by many of the online giant to whom my hon . friend have refer . support for Pensioners what fiscal step she be take to support pensioner . thank to our steadfast commitment to the triple lock , more than 12 million pensioner will benefit from a 4 . 1 % increase in their state pension next year , and over the course of this Parliament they will be well off by £ 1 , 900 . pensioner also benefit from free bus pass , eye test and prescription . in September the Government release statistic show that one in five pension credit claim be not be process within 50 day , and I raise that in a write parliamentary question , no . 5385 . part of the answer state : " the department have secure funding for additional staffing to improve processing time . " two month later , datum have be release show that the processing of one in four pension credit claim be now take long than 50 day . how much funding be give , will more be provide to try to move this forward , and what conversation be the Minister have with the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure that the funding be spend properly , give that it be taxpayer ' money ? I be a Minister in both the Treasury and the DWP , so I have conversation with official about this all the time . we be absolutely determined that those who be eligible for pension credit should be aware that they can apply for it , give our big campaign to raise awareness — only last week we launch a tv campaign on the issue . we have also deploy an additional 500 staff to process those pension credit claim . thank to our campaign there have be a 145 % increase in the number of claim , which be why the processing be take a little long , but we be absolutely focused on speed it up and ensure that those who be eligible receive the help they need . economic Growth in Rural Areas what fiscal step she be take to increase economic growth in rural area . what fiscal step she be take to increase economic growth in rural area . a prosperous rural economy will be underpin by improvement in rural connectivity and productivity , the availability of affordable energy , access to public service and a thriving farming sector . to that end , the Government be invest £ 5 billion in broadband connectivity , which will support growth in rural area across the UK . in addition , we be spend £ 5 billion for the farming budget in England over the next two year , include the large amount to be direct at sustainable food production and nature ' s recovery in our country ' s history . for generation the grim spectre of highland depopulation haunt the area I come from . I can remember my own father say , before North sea oil come along , that I would have to go south ; to go away . today we have the Inverness and Cromarty Firth green freeport , and we have the prospect of a space launch in Sutherland . may I ask the Government to consider fiscal mean whereby these project can be assist ? I warmly invite a Treasury Minister to come north to my constituency to see what we be do and what we have on offer . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury will set out any fiscal measure in due course . I be not sure whether I will get away with commit he to a visit to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , but I be sure that many of we would like to visit it . in fact , I shall be in Scotland in the next few day , but as it be for a Labour party fundraiser , the hon . Gentleman may not want to join I . Rural North Shropshire be home to some great independent business that we be look forward to celebrate on Small Business Saturday this week , but they be hold back by the business rate system , which benefit big online retailer and hold back investment not only on the high street but in the countryside . will the Minister consider a much more radical reform of business rate which take account of land value , encourage business to invest and put high street retailer on a level playing field with online giant ? until the hon . Lady ' s last sentence , I think she be declare support for our business rate plan , because we be set out to level the play field for high street business and the online giant . we be do that by way of a permanent tax cut for retail , hospitality and leisure business on the high street , which be pay for by the high multipli for those with a rateable value of £ 500 , 000 or more — a category that include the warehouse use by online company . I look forward to the hon . Lady perhaps contribute towards our " Transforming Business Rates " paper , which set out our wide ambition for reform . the last Government fail to stand up for british farmer in trade agreement and leave they vulnerable to flooding , rollercoaster energy cost and poor infrastructure . can the Minister confirm that this Government will protect british farmer where the last government fail ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out the failure of the previous Government , and to point out that this Government remain steadfast in our commitment to farmer across the country . that be exactly why we have commit £ 5 billion to the farming budget over the next two year , include the large ever budget for sustainable food production in our history . Living Standards what step she plan to take to help improve living standard . what step she plan to take to help improve living standard . we plan to raise living standard by boost economic growth to put more money in people ' s pocket , and by develop a comprehensive strategy on child poverty to give every child the good start in life . already , the independent Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that living standard will increase during this Parliament , at more than double the pace observe in the previous Parliament . fourteen year of conservative rule mean that we all see child poverty level rise . one in five child across the country now grow up in scar poverty . a quarter of all child in Bolsover live in poverty . can the Minister please set out the measure that this Labour Government will take to end this travesty ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . she will know that this Government , like every Labour Government , be commit to improve living standard right across the country . from 1 April 2025 , the national living wage will increase by 6 . 7 % to £ 12 . 21 per hour for eligible worker age 21 and over . that represent an increase of £ 1 , 400 to the gross annual earning of a full - time worker on the national living wage , and be expect to benefit around 3 million low - pay worker . my hon . friend know that the Government have set up a ministerial taskforce on child poverty , which will report in 2025 . in the Chancellor ' s first ever Budget , she deliver over £ 1 . 5 billion for Scotland this year and £ 3 . 4 billion next year — the large ever block grant settlement in the history of the Scottish Parliament . unlike the Tories and the SNP , it be clear that this Labour Government be choose investment over simply manage decline . can the Minister share with the House a bit more detail about how the Budget will directly impact and improve the life of people in my constituency of Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke , and throughout Scotland ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . as she say , the Scottish Government ' s spend review settlement for 2025 - 26 be the large , in real term , of any settlement since devolution begin . the Scottish Government be receive at least 20 % more per person than equivalent UK Government spending in the rest of the United Kingdom . that translate to over £ 8 . 5 billion more in 2025 - 26 alone . this Labour Government be deliver for the people of Scotland by give the Scottish Government the power and money to get on with the job , and it be for the SNP to be accountable for what it deliver for the scottish people . can the Minister confirm that of the £ 26 . 4 billion tax rise through the increase in employer nic , £ 19 billion will come directly out of people ' s pay packet ? secondly , can he confirm that the net amount that the Treasury will actually get from that £ 26 . 4 billion after behavioural change and public sector compensation be just £ 11 billion ? the right hon . Gentleman seem to have forget the cost that work people pay as a consequence of his party ' s action in government , with inflation on house price race to 11 % , the cost of living crisis , high energy bill and a loss of grip on public spending . People suffer a direct cost in their disposable income because of the action of the conservative party . this Labour Government have wipe the slate clean , and we be get a grip on public spending , fix the foundation and deliver for work people . will the Chancellor admit , as she have already do in the medium , that wage will be low because of her job tax ? this government ' s commitment to economic growth will improve living standard for people right across the country . I refer the hon . member to my previous answer and suggest that his party might want to apologise before try to lecture this Government on the change that we be deliver . economic Investment what step she be take to increase long - term investment in the economy . what step she be take to increase long - term investment in the economy . what step she be take to increase long - term investment in the economy . we have bring stability back to the economy , which be the foundation for attract investment and be vital to our growth mission . we have already launch the national wealth fund , which will mobilise over £ 70 billion of private investment with an expand remit for the Office for Investment oversee by the Minister for investment . in October , we welcome global investor from around the world to London for the international investment summit , where we be able to announce a record - break £ 63 billion of private sector investment into our economy . I have be meet a number of maritime company in and around the port of Southampton , and they tell I that the single big key to unlock further investment would be the expansion of the national grid to our city . what step be the Chancellor take to secure that vital investment , and will she meet I and local industry leader to discuss how this would boost our local and national economy ? it be a pleasure to go to my hon . friend ' s constituency in June to see the port and the wealth creation and job that it be bring to Southampton . as I set out in the autumn Budget , as well as focus on the national wealth fund ' s capital investment in port , we be committed to accelerate grid connection and ensure that new network infrastructure be build at pace to unlock investment and growth opportunity . we be particularly focus on drive network build , include by complete the strategic planning of the energy system need for 2030 , to ensure that project such as those my hon . friend have mention in Southampton make the progress that they need to . new green business such as XLCC in Ayrshire , a sub - sea cable manufacturer , be seek long - term investment to create job . recently , my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) and I visit its training academy in Irvine . what more will my right hon . friend the Chancellor do to help scottish business such as XLCC to secure long - term investment , and might she visit Ayrshire to see it in action ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for the invitation . in October , the Government launch the national wealth fund to mobilise billion of pound of investment into world - lead clean energy and growth industry . I be pleased that the national wealth fund already announce a £ 20 million investment in XLCC to support it in move towards a construction phase . this will support 900 job , as well as make a contribution to the UK be a clean energy superpower by strengthen the home - grow energy supplier that be fundamental to achieve our energy independence . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Yorkshire and Northern Lincolnshire , I be always on the lookout for opportunity to encourage investment and growth in our region . that be why I be back the campaign to put the national infrastructure and service transformation authority in Leeds , and I be delighted that the national wealth fund be put in Leeds . give these fact , will my right hon . friend the Chancellor meet I to discuss the opportunity we have to maximise the benefit from the national wealth fund ? I welcome the work that my hon . friend do on the all - party parliamentary group for Yorkshire and Northern Lincolnshire . as I announce in October , the UK Infrastructure Bank have now become the national wealth fund and it will expand its team and be headquarter in the brilliant city of Leeds , to realise our ambition on the national wealth fund . the national wealth fund will also have a strong regional focus , work with the mayor , include Tracy Brabin in West Yorkshire , so that we can realise the potential of all our region , include Yorkshire . further detail on the national infrastructure and service transformation authority ' s governance and location will be confirm in due course . one of the economic investment that we do not want to see in Angus and Perthshire Glens , or anywhere else in Scotland , be foreign multinational buy up farm because farmer have give up under the weight of the taxis introduce by this Government . this would destroy local supply chain and make large farm that be less responsive to consumer demand . what have the Chancellor see in her impact assessment of the agricultural property relief change to allay those fear ? one of the current challenge , as the hon . Gentleman will know , be that agricultural property relief be often use for tax avoidance . People be buy farmland not because they be family farmer but because they do not want to pay any inheritance tax . that be why we be reform the system to bring in much - need money to fund our public service , and to have a fair system with a 50 % discount to inheritance tax pay on agricultural property and a 10 - year period to pay that inheritance tax , interest free . last week , I join a biotech boot camp in South Cambridgeshire . although the investor and entrepreneur recognise and welcome the research and development budget announce in the Budget , they say it be a reduction from 2021 . do the Chancellor recognise that we need to increase investment in R & D to encourage long - term investment in our lead service ? we be really pleased to announce an R & D budget of more than £ 20 billion at the autumn Budget . this be important to funding and accelerate r & D not just in the hon . Lady ' s constituency but across the country . combine with the corporate tax road map , as well as the commitment to continue funding for Horizon , our university and great innovator can look to the future with confidence . local leisure and sport facility , such as the Sovereign centre where I learn to swim , deserve more long - term investment . I want Eastbourne to be able to invest its £ 20 million from the town fund in such facility , but it will not be unlock by the Treasury until 2026 . will the Chancellor commit to accelerate the unlocking of that funding , so that we can invest in facility for local family and people in Eastbourne much soon ? I agree it be important that all child learn to swim , especially in our coastal community . we have to make difficult decision at the Budget , but I be happy to try to arrange a meeting between the hon . Gentleman and the relevant Minister to make sure the investment can go ahead at pace . business Rates : High Street Retailers what step she be take to introduce permanent reduction to business rate for high street retailer . what step she be take to introduce permanent reduction to business rate for high street retailer . what step she be take to introduce permanent reduction to business rate for high street retailer . to deliver our manifesto pledge , we intend to introduce permanently low tax rate for high street retail , hospitality and leisure property from 2026 - 27 . this tax cut must be sustainably fund , so we intend to introduce a high rate on the most valuable property — those with a rateable value of £ 500 , 000 or above — from 2026 - 27 . the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill , introduce last month , will enable the Government to deliver these change , and it will come into effect in April 2026 . high street in my Pendle and Clitheroe constituency be hollow out under the last Conservative Government , with many shop leave empty . small , independent business be the backbone of our local economy , employ local people , keep our town vibrant and give they their character and charm . can the Minister assure I that multinational giant will pay their fair share under Labour , level the play field and enable our high street to thrive ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of small , independent business in his constituency , and I be sure his sentiment be share by member across the House . through our reform , we be set out to make sure that those property with a rateable value of £ 500 , 000 or more pay so we can have a permanent tax cut for high street business . this category include the large distribution warehouse use by online business , which will make sure that those online business make a fair contribution to ensure that our high street be the success we all want to see . ahead of Small Business Saturday , I congratulate St Martha Greek taverna in Nantwich on be the first winner of my Crewe and Nantwich small business of the month competition . small business on our high street , such as St Martha , regularly highlight business rate as a significant challenge , so what step be the Minister take to ensure that they can continue to thrive ? may I extend my congratulation to St Martha Greek taverna in Nantwich ? give the time , I be feel a bit hungry now that we be talk about food . I reassure my hon . friend that our plan to reform the business rate system would see a permanent tax cut for retail , hospitality and leisure business . while I do not know exactly the detail or the rateable value of the property in question , I be sure property like that would be eligible for the cut . it be crucial that we support those much - love local business . I be glad he be do all he can to champion they , and I look forward to my invite . many people in my community rely on in - person banking and access to cash . I be pleased to recently open the banking hub in Ossett town centre . Ossett be previously one of the 55 bankless town in the UK . how be the Government look to far support those who rely on those service , particularly in town and rural village ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance to community of have access to cash and banking service , which be why we have commit to roll out more banking hub across the country — 100 by the end of this year and a total of 350 through our commitment . we want to work with local community across the country to deliver that , so that all area , like Ossett , can benefit from a local banking hub . the heavy burden of business rate and the national insurance contribution that the Government be go to impose on small business be tax business to death . do the Minister recognise that in do so , he be go to cause unemployment , high inflation and low growth , and that we be head for high taxis in future because of the downward economic spiral ? as the right hon . Gentleman will see in the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill that we will be debate this afternoon , we have double the employment allowance to help small business to employ up to four people earn the national living wage without pay a penny in national insurance . that be dedicate support to help those small business , in the context of what , I admit , be a tough decision . if the right hon . Gentleman have a chance to contribute to the debate , he might say whether he support the extra public service funding that come from those difficult decision . business like Mr Miles in Taunton High Street be be hit hard by the change in taxis for hospitality business , include the increase in the wage bill and national insurance contribution , and the massive increase in business rate . that business be now consider reduce its opening hour , which would make our high street less vibrant than it should be . one challenge be the £ 50 , 000 rateable value limit for the discount , as many high street premise have a rateable value of more than £ 50 , 000 . will the Chancellor consider review the limit place on the business rate discount for small business ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , we set out our plan for reform business rate to ensure that retail , hospitality and leisure property on the high street with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 will benefit from a permanent tax cut from this Government . the importance of that tax cut be permanent be that it give business the stability they need to invest and grow . I look forward to his support for our reform when we vote on they in due course . management of Public Finances what step she be take to help ensure the sound management of public finance . sound management of the public finance mean spend wisely and not send money to fraudster . today , I have appoint the health expert Tom Hayhoe as our new covid counter - fraud commissioner . as chair of an NHS trust during the pandemic , he see the urgency of get personal protective equipment to NHS staff when they need it . now he be at his desk in my Department start the work to investigate the billion of pound lose to fraud and underperforming contract , and instead ensure that that money be where it belong — in our public service . my constituent expect the Government to treat taxpayer money with the utmost respect . however , during the pandemic the Conservatives hand out contract to their friend and donor and fail to prevent fraud , use the crisis as a cover for their greed . do the Chancellor agree with I that that money belong to the taxpayer ? my hon . friend ' s constituent in Thurrock be right to be angry about the waste and corruption that happen under the previous Government . that money belong to the british people and in our public service , not in the pocket of fraudster take advantage of a national emergency . Tom Hayhoe will leave no stone unturned in investigate the carnival of fraud that the previous Government preside over , include in PPE contract , where they recommend any attempt to reclaim that money be abandon . let huge sum of taxpayer ' money be waste would be egregious and I will not tolerate that . the Treasury consistently insist that only 500 farm a year will be impact by the family farm tax . however , the Central Association for Agricultural Valuers calculate that the real number will be five time high and will include many farm in my Gordon and Buchan constituency . who be right : the Treasury or the expert ? we have publish the detail of how that money be raise , but the number from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be very clear : only a quarter of estate will pay any additional tax . at the moment , the vast majority of agricultural property relief be enjoy by a very small number of very large and very expensive estate . that be not affordable , and it will not continue . I declare an interest : I be a member of Unite the Union . the Grangemouth refinery cost £ 100 million a year to run , and its economic contribution to Scotland exceed £ 400 million per annum . Unite have a credible plan to save the refinery and prevent thousand of job loss . will the Treasury consider the plan , and meet I , Unite and the refinery owner to discuss its viability and Government intervention for the public good ? I be happy to arrange a meeting between my hon . friend and the relevant Minister . last week , the Chancellor tell the CBI conference that she would not come back " with more borrowing or more taxis " . last Wednesday , the Prime Minister hang she out to dry and refuse to repeat those word . will she repeat they today and rule out any more borrowing or any more taxis — yes or no ? at the Budget in October , we have to fill a £ 22 billion black hole leave by the previous Government . we will never have to repeat a Budget like this one , because we will not have to clear up the mess of the previous Government ever again . I call the shadow Minister . a cornerstone of sound management be economic certainty , but this Government seem to specialise in create economic uncertainty ; most recently they do so by delay the date for the critical multi - year spending review . it look like the Chancellor do not have a grip on either her Cabinet colleague ' spending plan or her own plan for public sector productivity . which be it — or be it both ? the hon . Gentleman talk about uncertainty , but he be a Minister in the Treasury under Liz Truss , when huge damage be do to family ' and business ' finance . frankly , I will take no lesson from Conservative member on how to run the economy . we have already do phase 1 of the spending review ; phase 2 will begin shortly and be conclude next year , when we will make multi - year settlement on resource departmental expenditure limit and capital budget for the next few year . the Chancellor may find that in her job , she need to listen and learn lesson . one of the many criticism of the last Budget be that the Government fiddle the figure to borrow more money , and still leave little headroom for if their forecast go wrong . since the Budget , business confidence have collapse , put further pressure on that headroom . do the Chancellor have a problem with balance her book , and will she , like Oliver Twist , be come back for more ? the hon . Gentleman will know that there be more headroom in our Budget in October than be leave by the previous Government . the lesson I have learn be that I will never play fast and loose with the public finance , as the Conservative party do , because when it do , interest rate go through the roof and inflation top 11 % , and family and business in our country be still pay the price for its disastrous economic management . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . at the Budget , I wipe the slate clean after 14 year of chaos and mismanagement of our public finance , and I have bring stability back to our economy , so that we can get on with fulfil our promise of deliver change . that mean invest to fix the NHS and rebuild Britain , while ensure that work people do not face high taxis in their payslip . only through economic growth can we deliver on the promise of change . that be why we have waste no time in deliver on the Government ' s no . 1 mission . we have establish the national wealth fund , have kick - start plan reform to boost long - term growth , be develop an industrial strategy , and be announce reform for our world - lead financial service sector , include in pension . I be under no illusion about the size and scale of the challenge that we face , and the struggle of work people . that be why we choose stability and investment . the Conservatives , however , choose chaos , austerity and decline . accord to the Local Government Association , local government spending on public service be down 42 % on what it would have be have it keep pace with demand and cost since 2010 . my local authority , Greenwich , face a £ 3 million to £ 5 million gap in commission social care cost , and after 14 year of Tory austerity , there be very little headroom to bridge that gap . do my right hon . friend agree that local authority need more assistance to bridge such gap in the December local government finance statement ? as my hon . friend will know , in the autumn Budget and phase 1 of the spending review , more than £ 1 billion be make available to local government , include £ 600 million for social care . the allocation of that money will be set out in the normal way over the next few week , so that local government be fund properly and can deliver the service that it need to deliver . I call the shadow Chancellor . what a pleasure it be to appear opposite the right hon . Lady for the first time . I be tempt to ask she how thing be go , but I do not want to start out by be unkind . I will instead ask this : when she recently pledge to the CBI that she would not raise taxis again , do she mean it ? I welcome the right hon . member to his place , and look forward to many exchange with he across the Dispatch Box . at the Budget in October , as he know , we have to fix a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . some of that black hole come from the fact that we be the only G7 economy in which employment be low than it be before the pandemic , when he be Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , so we have to raise taxis to fund our public service ; but never again will we have to repeat a Budget like that one , because we have now wipe the slate clean and draw a line under the mess create by the previous Government . I do not actually discern any answer to my question , so may I put it this way ? no . 10 have state that it be not prepared to stand by the Chancellor ' s commitment on tax . be that because no . 10 change its mind , or because the right hon . Lady speak without think ? no Chancellor of the Exchequer would write five year ' worth of Budget in their first five month in post , but I can say that we will never have to deliver a Budget like that again . we take decision in this Budget in order to wipe the slate clean after the mismanagement , decline and chaos of the previous Government . that require we to make difficult decision , but we be right to make they , so that we can get go with our plan to achieve growth and reform public service , and deliver the NHS and school that our country desperately need . the A50 / A500 and Branston bridge in my constituency be just two example of infrastructure project that need investment . what investment be the Department make to improve our road and infrastructure ? my hon . friend have campaign extensively on this issue in his constituency . I understand that National Highways continue to develop proposal to improve the A50 / a500 corridor through Uttoxeter . that be part of the pipeline of project for future road investment strategy . he will know that in the Budget , we invest £ 1 . 6 billion to maintain and renew the nation ' s local road . that include a £ 500 million increase in 2025 - 26 alone . air ambulance charity deliver life - save treatment to people every single day , yet they be under threat from the Chancellor ' s rise in national insurance and taxis . the Lincolnshire & Nottinghamshire Air Ambulance alone will need to find another £ 70 , 000 just to pay the national insurance rise . two week ago , local right hon . and hon . member and I write to the Chancellor on this matter , but we have not yet have a reply . I ask she now : will she exempt these vital charity , so that they can continue their vital , life - save work ? the tax rise in the Budget be use to provide a £ 22 . 6 billion uplift in the Department of Health and Social Care budget to ensure that our NHS be properly fund . the NHS will ensure that important service be properly fund , and those allocation will be set out in the normal way . I understand that the Chancellor will attend the Great Northern conference today in Yorkshire and the Humber . in the light of that , will she tell we how she will make the most of growth opportunity for our region ? I will head to the Great Northern conference in Hull later this afternoon to speak about the impact of this Government ' s policy on Yorkshire and the wide north of England . we be support local leader and community through integrate settlement , be invest in the trans - Pennine route upgrade , East West Rail and High Speed 2 , and be reshape public service . the owner of Horton pharmacy in Epsom have raise concern about the financial burden that increase employer national insurance contribution will place on community pharmacy . pharmacy provide frontline care , and without support , their viability and the accessible healthcare that they offer could be at risk . that will add pressure to an already strain national health service . will the Chancellor reconsider and exempt community pharmacy from the increase ? primary care provider have yearly negotiation with the Department on what service they provide and what money they be entitle to . more broadly , the reason why we be , in the Budget , take difficult decision about national insurance and other matter be precisely to fund the NHS , so that we have the health service that our country need and deserve . Crawley ' s public service , not least its school and the NHS , be set to benefit significantly from the measure set out in the Budget . do the Minister agree that opposition party can not have it both way , claim to support the investment in our local public service while reject every one of the measure necessary to fund they ? in the past four week since the Leader of the Opposition be elect , the Conservatives have make £ 7 billion of commitment to cut taxis , but with no idea of how they would cut public service to afford they . I do not know how they will vote on national insurance , but we can see pretty quickly how they end up leave we a £ 22 billion black hole . the single most important factor in raise living standard , drive income equality and improve child ' s life chance be have a job . why be the Chancellor disregard that fundamental truth , with tax policy that will actively harm employment , particularly youth employment ? if we look at the OBR forecast for this Parliament , employment will increase from 33 . 1 million to 34 . 3 million . the right hon . Gentleman talk about youth employment . I suggest that he read our " get Britain work " White Paper , which set out in detail what we will do to help get young people , and people suffer from ill health , back into work . last week , the House pass the Second reading of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , and I be proud to walk through the voting Lobby with my hon . friend . this Government be commit to implement the vaping product duty , which complement the Bill , to safeguard our young people . will the Minister confirm whether the Government be consider use a digital platform tax for that duty ? as my hon . friend set out , the Government confirm the introduction of a vaping product duty to ensure that young people and non - smoker do not take up vaping . registration for the duty will open on the digital platform from 1 April 2026 , and the duty will take effect from 1 October that year . on economic black hole , the Labour Mayor of London think that Brexit punch a £ 40 billion black hole in the public finance . a very simple question for the Chancellor : have leave the EU be a net positive or a net negative for the public finance ? the Government have no overall estimate of the impact of the UK ' s exit from the EU , but the OBR have project a 4 % drop in productivity in the long term . that be why we be start negotiation with the EU to improve trade in our mutual interest . the previous Government leave a mess of £ 22 billion for we to clean up follow their short - term decision and absolute lack of investment in service . this government be take a different approach , with long - term investment for our economic success . will the Chancellor work with I to find the £ 3 million of long - term investment in the port of Rosyth that be require to bring back a ferry between Rosyth and Dunkirk ? that would bring 51 , 000 passenger a year to Scotland and take 8 . 1 million km of freight traffic off the road , and it have the support of large local employer such as Mowi and Amazon . the Government recognise that port be an important route to growth , which be why the national wealth fund will deploy at least £ 5 . 8 billion into five priority manifesto sector , include port . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that specific constituency issue in due course . WealthTek be place into administration by the Financial Conduct Authority after lose £ 80 million of its client ' money . FCA - appoint administrator be now deduct fee from victim ' compensation . my constituent Dominic Knights and his wife have between they lose thousand of pound . what be the Treasury do to safeguard the £ 85 , 000 compensation limit ? the FCA be hold to account by the Government and Parliament , but Treasury Ministers can not comment on individual case , and the Treasury have no stake in the operational issue of the FCA . I be very happy to meet with the right hon . Lady and the FCA to discuss that matter , but let I be clear : the FCA be an independent regulator . what measure be the Government take to support small independent retail business in town centre such as mine in Mansfield , and will the Chancellor join I in congratulate Mansfield business improvement district on its successful renewal ballot , which be announce last Friday ? I happily join my hon . friend in welcome Mansfield ' s success . we have launch a revamp fair payment code , under which signatory commit to pay their supplier on time , and the disability finance code for entrepreneurship . that come on top of reform announce at the Budget to protect small business , such as double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , and our commitment to maintain the small profit rate and marginal relief at their current rate and threshold , as well as to freeze the small business multipli for 2025 - 26 — I call Greg Smith . and like my hon . friend , I look forward to small business Saturday this week — order . [ interruption . ] no , we be go to have a little talk now , because this be not fair ; I have to get all these other member in . I understand that these be set question , but question and answer should be short — it work both way — otherwise I can not get member in and it make my job impossible . please work with I . the owner of a 380 - acre farm in my constituency have work out that they would have to spend 40 year pay back the money that they would have to borrow because of the change to agricultural property relief . when will the Chancellor start listen to farmer rather than hide behind Treasury figure ? we be take an approach that balance significant tax relief for family farm with the need to fix the public finance in as fair a way as possible . the hon . Gentleman will have see the datum that the Treasury have put out , base on claim datum from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . it show how few farm will in fact be affect . the measure be a fair and balanced way to fix the public finance , which we desperately need to do give our inheritance from the Conservative Government . it be vital that we give value for taxpayer ' money , yet conservative - run Norfolk county council ' s doom Norwich western link road be cost taxpayer £ 27 , 000 per day — that be nearly £ 50 million so far for not an inch of tarmac . do my hon . friend agree that the Norfolk Tories give we Liz Truss not just in Whitehall , but in county hall ? Minister , you ' re run out of road . the Government will always support local authority to deliver good value for money road enhancement to support economic growth and improve connectivity . the Norwich western link road be currently the subject of a live planning application , so I be afraid that I can not comment far on the specific . I can not help but think that this morning have make for rather depress listening . we hear this repetition about a £ 22 billion black hole , but we be deal with very serious matter such as people ' s employment . ultimately I hear the Chancellor talk about a central planning agenda , but it be public service that be the problem ; they be waste money , and we must seriously consider that . will the Chancellor accept , if the economy turn down next year , which it surely will , that she have make a mess of it ? we mention the £ 22 billion because that be the inheritance that the Government now have to address . we have publish a line - by - line account of the £ 22 billion black hole that the previous Government leave . we be now grow the economy through our national wealth fund , our planning reform and our pension reform , and we be reform our public service , so that we can deliver for the people we come here to represent . as the Treasury team may be aware , there be a grow body of evidence that the growth of the financial sector beyond a certain size have an impact on the economy , particularly the productive economy . over a 10 - year period , it have cost the rest of the economy £ 4 . 5 trillion , so how will the Chancellor ensure that a grow financial sector will not harm the Government ' s wide mission and the productive economy ? my hon . friend will know that there be a long - stand debate about the relationship between financial and real economy growth , on which there be no consensus . the Government be clear that we see the financial service sector as a key part of our future economic success . the growth of the UK economy and our wide mission will not be achieve if we do not champion one of our big asset — the growth of the UK ' s financial service sector — and mobilise it towards achieve those goal . achieve for Children be the arm ' s length body of Richmond council that deliver its vital child ' s service , yet because of the rise in employer ' s national insurance , it now face a staggering bill of £ 588 , 000 because the employee be not directly employ by Richmond council . when the Chancellor look at her local government settlement , will she build in reimbursement for council such as Richmond , or indeed exempt arm ' s length body ? as the hon . Member will know , we announce in the Budget an increase in local government funding of 3 . 2 % next year , and the Chancellor announce extra funding for early year provider to deliver Government - fund childcare place , mean that total funding will be over £ 8 billion in 2025 - 26 . I look forward to the hon . member ' s support for all that extra funding . today be International Day of Persons with Disabilities . with a disability employment gap of nearly 30 % and a disability pay gap of nearly 14 % , how be the Chancellor help to address those inequality ? just today , the Government launch the disability finance code for entrepreneurship — something champion by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade — to ensure that people from all type of background , include those with disability , can start and grow their own business . when the Windsor framework be introduce , it be accompany by the boast that access to the EU single market would result in a huge increase in investment in Northern Ireland . be the Chancellor aware that Invest NI have report that there have be no upturn , and be that not because of the barrier present by the Irish sea border to the bringing of raw material into Northern Ireland from Great Britain ? the Government be commit to increase the flow of investment to every nation and region of the United Kingdom , and we will continue to work with the Northern Ireland Executive to deliver that for the people of Northern Ireland . Ukraine ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the war in Ukraine . the UK ' s support for Ukraine to defend itself against russian aggression be ironclad . in July this year , the Government commit to provide Ukraine with £ 3 billion of military aid every year for as long as need . in October , we announce that the UK Government would provide a furth £ 2 . 26 billion as the UK ' s contribution to the $ 50 billion G7 loan , earmark as budgetary support for Ukraine ' s military spending . this will be provide in addition to our bilateral military aid . we be also step up and speed up delivery of our military support . the UK be also lead the way in term of pressure on Russia and Putin ' s war machine . to date , we have sanction over 2 , 100 individual and entity under the Russia sanction regime . sanction have deprive Russia of over $ 400 billion since February 2022 , equivalent to four more year of funding for the invasion . Putin ' s problem be grow , with 700 , 000 casualty to date , voluntary recruitment down 40 % and an unsustainable war economy . Russia have be force to rely on Iran for missile and on the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea for foot soldier . our support to Ukraine be a core UK national interest . a russian victory would diminish the west ' s global standing , create a zone of instability on our eastern flank , and embolden Putin and other autocrat . this could require cold war level of defence spending . on 19 November , we pass a grim milestone — 1 , 000 day since Putin launch his full - scale invasion . million of Ukrainians have be displace from their home or force into exile , and as we know from our constituency , we have home full of ukrainian family . the Prime Minister have make it clear that we need to double down on our support for Ukraine . as the Foreign Secretary tell the United Nations Security Council last month , we stand with the people of Ukraine during this terrible period of its history . it be wonderful to have cross - party support for that , and for the support that the UK will deliver for as long as it take until Ukraine prevail , to ensure that this can never happen again . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . follow the Prime Minister ' s comment yesterday , we need some clarity from the Government on their approach to Ukraine . at the Lord Mayor ' s banquet , the Prime Minister say that it be important to " put Ukraine in the strong possible position for negotiation so that they can secure a just and last peace on their term " . we can all agree that Ukrainians must be able to determine their own future . I be sure the Minister recognise that the language use by the Prime Minister yesterday evening at the Lord Mayor ' s banquet about negotiation be new . on 21 November in the House , the Prime Minister make no reference to negotiation for peace , state : " we have consistently say that we will do what it take to support Ukraine and put it in the good possible position go into the winter " , and that " Russia could roll back its force and end this war tomorrow . " — [ Official Report , 21 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 373 . ] as the Minister point out , the Foreign Secretary state here on 19 November : " the final truth be that Putin have no interest in a just peace . " — [ Official Report , 19 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 163 . ] we all agree that put Ukraine in the strong possible position to counter Russia ' s illegal invasion be right . we be all proud in this House , across this Government and the previous Government , of how we have lead on that support to Ukraine and its people . however , if the Government be frame that through the lens of negotiation , do the Minister believe that that represent a departure from the current approach and from the statement issue in this House ? the Minister will herself have see President Zelensky ' s late remark about NATO membership . it be important for NATO to speak with one voice on these matter , and this unity be absolutely crucial , so can the Minister update the House on the Government ' s current position on Ukraine accede to NATO ? we all continue to see more appalling brutality from Putin , with his pummelling of civilian and Ukraine ' s energy system constantly as winter kick in , which be start to hurt the people of Ukraine . the misery that that could inflict be the most atrocious form of psychological and physical warfare . the UK have lead so much on Ukraine , so can the Minister confirm whether the Government be look at what more can be do to protect Ukraine ' s energy infrastructure ? can she reassure the House that we will keep on do everything we can do to support the defence of freedom in Ukraine ? I reassure the right hon . Lady that there be no change in the UK position . we have always say that we will support Ukraine to achieve a just peace on its own term . the pm have be clear , include in his speech last night , that " we must continue to back Ukraine and do what it take to support … self - defence for as long as it take " , because it be for Ukraine to determine its position in any future discussion . Putin can not be trust — Russia have violate multiple previous agreement — and the clear path to peace be for Russia to withdraw its troop from Ukraine tomorrow and respect ukrainian border . on the NATO membership question that the right hon . Lady pose , Ukraine ' s place be in NATO . the ally agree in Washington on 10 July that Ukraine be on an " irreversible path to full Euro - atlantic integration , include NATO membership " , and the UK fully support that goal . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . while Europeans spend barely the cost of two cup of coffee a week on support for the war in Ukraine , 41 % of Russia ' s total expenditure be spend on the war . they have have to cut social security and raise taxis to pay for the war effort . while speculation about the future of the war be understandable in the current circumstance , it be really important that we remain firm . do my hon . friend agree that we must remain steadfast in our support for Ukraine ? we stand with Ukraine . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , and its member , hear from the Foreign Secretary last week about the UK ' s steadfast support for Ukraine and our strong friendship . I be sure my right hon . friend the Select Committee Chair be aware of that give all the Ukrainians who be base in home in her constituency , and I reassure she that we will be steadfast and keep the support go for as long as it take . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we be watch with grave concern the most recent development in Ukraine , and the attack on its energy network at the weekend show that Putin have no concern for non - combatant . the use by Russia of a hypersonic missile and the allege change in Russia ' s nuclear doctrine be clear effort to intimidate Ukraine ' s partner . do the Minister agree that we must stand firm in our support for Ukraine ? President - elect Trump have say that he will end the war within 24 hour , and Vice President - elect Vance have say that Ukraine must give up its territory in negotiation , but cede any territory will only give the wrong signal to other autocratic regime around the world . we must urgently repair our broken relationship with our european ally to ensure that we act unite in support of Ukraine , regardless of Trump ' s potential action . what be be do to strengthen the UK ' s commitment and contribution to european collective security to support Ukraine ? we support the Bill to release the interest on frozen russian asset that be hold in the UK to help Ukraine , but will the Minister commit to work with ally to mobilise the principal , not the interest , on more than $ 300 billion of asset , so that there be a plan b if America withdraw financial support ? I thank the hon . Lady for her meaty contribution . on energy , the UK have provide more than £ 370 million for energy security and resilience in Ukraine through grant , in - kind support , and loan guarantee . that include £ 64 million to support Ukraine to repair , protect and replace energy infrastructure target by russian strike . there be nothing bad than see family in darkness during conflict . on russian asset , we be pleased that our sanction regime have respect across the globe . that begin under the previous Government and enjoy cross - party support throughout the last Parliament , and it continue to enjoy support . our good legal mind be design out the fraud and kleptocracy that for so many year have dog our economy — that be a personal priority of the Foreign Secretary . right down to the proceed of Chelsea football club , we be fight every inch to ensure that money from those asset go straight back into support Ukrainians . I agree wholeheartedly with the Prime Minister ' s comment last night that we need a just and last peace for Ukraine on its term , and in any negotiation that should be the central position . follow the election of President Trump , what discussion have the Government have with our international partner about the potential impact of that on Ukraine , especially give report from Kursk in Russia that certain troop be hold on to their position , wait on the outcome of the incoming Trump Administration ' s thought on negotiation ? I thank the Chair of the Defence Committee for his question . we be all watch closely what be happen in Kursk , and we be extremely concerned by the additional force from the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea , who be estimate to be around 10 , 000 in number . it be so sad to see the strong potential for those young man to be victim of this war . we be also aware that it will be a tough few month while we re - establish our joint work with all partner across the US , the UK and Europe , but of this we can be sure : it be not a good sign or a good message for anyone to see that an aggressive invasion , such as Putin ' s invasion across the border of Ukraine , can somehow be the right thing or that it can be successful . we must use all our diplomatic tool across the Chamber to speak to friend in the UK and the US who have great friendship with the people of Ukraine and to continue to make the case for the man , woman and child of Ukraine . it be excellent to see all Front - Bench spokesman , include the Minister , so united on this question . do she accept that Putin have make his attitude to the independence of Ukraine — namely , that it should cease to exist as an independent nation — crystal clear , and therefore any enforce treaty to which he be a signatory be utterly and completely worthless ? the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about the psychology of this conflict . it be why it be so important , particularly in these desperate winter month , that we remain firm . I commend he and other for all their work on the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine , and all their work on security and intelligence , to provide that important , dedicated cross - party support to Ukraine . in the end , we know that it be for Ukraine to determine its position on its future , its just peace and its vision for its own people , but we will be behind the Ukrainians so that they know we can be rely on . I be hearten to hear the Minister say that we would support the self - defence of Ukraine for as long as it take . one of the most important aspect of that be the development of new military technology , particularly through joint venture between the UK and Ukraine on area such as drone and unmanned aerial vehicle . one such example be the Black Arrow project . the first stage of that project have be complete and the drone have be manufacture , but they have be stick here since May this year , because no export control licence have be grant . will the Minister implore her colleague in the Department for Business and Trade to facilitate those licence quickly , as those drone will help not just the defence of Ukraine , but our sovereign manufacturing capability for defence ? I commend the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine not just for his very long train trip across Ukraine to visit and offer his support , but for his technical knowledge . if he will give I permission , I will write to he with detail of exactly where the project be at , so that he can give reassurance to all of his many follower in Ukraine . today , the BBC be report a russian submarine sailing between japanese island and close to Taiwan . last month , we have report of a russian ship be monitor by HMS Cattistock near our own UK water . how concerned should we be that Russia be flex its muscle ? will the UK be step up its direct support to Ukraine and make our troop , particularly our Royal Navy , ready for additional patrol and potential direct involvement to defend our ally and our shore ? I thank the hon . Lady for her detailed knowledge and her question . we know that the Euro - Atlantic and Indo - Pacific work closely together on all these Navy question . I would not want to give anything specific away at the Dispatch Box that might help President Putin , but it be good to see that she be monitor that . it be so important that we continue to work together , whether that be through the training of force on the ground , air defence or Navy asset . it be clearly more important than ever that the UK work closely with our european friend and ally as we face the common threat of russian aggression . can my hon . friend outline how the Government intend to strengthen co - operation with the EU on the security challenge that we all face ? my hon . friend will be aware that just last week , Germany make an important announcement about continue military support . there have be a step change , particularly in light of the importance of the defence of Europe . have a war on european soil be so instructive , and I think people be slowly come to the table . it be clear that the UK have a real leadership position , and that be why the EU - UK security pact work be so important . the Europe Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , be work hard to develop that . as member will be aware , we have just announce more collaboration with Germany where possible , and specifically in relation to Ukraine . in general , the UK have so much to offer the EU in that regard . we know that the ongoing conversation we be have more holistically about EU - UK relation be enrich by our defence capability . I congratulate the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , on secure this urgent question , and I thank the Minister for her statement . we be just past the anniversary of when Ukraine vote for independence . to remind everybody , every single part of Ukraine vote for independence . do she agree , and will she remind any incoming Administration anywhere — perhaps in the United States — that the territorial integrity of Ukraine be set in international law and must be respect ? the key word be " respect border " , and that be where the neocolonial philosophy of President Putin , as he lay out originally in that seminal essay before the war , show how completely at odd with the modern viewpoint he be . yes , we will support Ukraine on its vision of its own border , its own strength and its own sovereignty . it can feel , with russian submarine reccee our water , with north korean troop fight for Russia and with iranian drone cause the death of Ukrainians , that Russia want a big war . we must deter it . that be why we must absolutely drive a victory for Ukraine — a total victory . do the Minister agree with I and General George Marshall that the good way to win a war be to prevent it in the first place ? I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for his service to the UK and for his intimate knowledge of what it actually mean to be at war , and therefore to talk about deterrence . I be commit , as be the whole Front - Bench team , to work as closely as possible on all the international friendship and treaty and the pressure that we can bring to bear , so that we can achieve a last peace together and be behind Ukraine as it step forward into a very uncertain future . one aspect of support that the UK could offer Ukraine be expire medical equipment and dressing . a charity base in Axminster in my constituency , call Medics4Ukraine , have just get back from Odesa . it have be train municipal worker , and it say that it need dressing , haemostatic dressing and gauze . will she speak to her counterpart in the Department of Health and Social Care to see whether some of the expired item could be release for that purpose ? I refer the hon . and gallant Gentleman to the discussion in the Adjournment debate last night on medical assistance in conflict . the UK have an enormous amount of resource in that area . I will certainly look into what be possible and write to he with what we be already do in relation to Ukraine . I very much welcome the statement , the ongoing commitment we have see from this Government and the co - operation with the previous Government on Ukraine , because it be not just about security in Europe , as these thing be in our self - interest . may I impress on the Minister that if Ukraine be allow to fall , it will not just be a european problem ? so much grain that be grow in Ukraine find its way to Africa . if Ukraine fall , people in Africa will starve , too . I thank my hon . friend for make an important point . we all watch two summer ago with bated breath as the Black sea grain negotiation occur , and the impact of miss out on that important agricultural wealth in Ukraine , and the deleterious effect it have on develop nation , be of concern to all in this House . he be right to speak about the knock - on effect of conflict . we must redouble our effort to stop that happen . many of the ukrainian refugee live in my constituency have express relief and gratitude that there have be continuity of policy in still support Ukraine with the change of Government . but at a time when Russia be find that its economy be affect by the war and be have to rely on Iran , China and Korea to continue the war , do the Minister think it unwise to start talk of negotiation about land and so on , which will only encourage Putin and his regime ? should we not be talk about increase the resolve of our partner , give military support and seize russian asset to let Ukraine use they ? there be no change in the UK position ; we have always say that we will support Ukraine to achieve a just peace on its own term . the Prime Minister have be clear , include in his speech last night , that we must continue to back Ukraine and do what it take to support its self - defence for as long as it take . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee make a strong case about the financial pressure that Russia find itself in . what additional pressure can we place on Russia ? be there any plan to introduce a sanction Bill ? I thank my hon . friend , the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee — we have a good showing of Select Committee Chairs in the House today . I reassure she that the UK have impose measure on over 2 , 100 individual and entity , the most wide - range sanction ever impose on a major economy . most recently , we have impose sanction against 69 vessel in Russia ' s shadow fleet transport russian oil outside G7 sanction . may I say how pleased I be — I be sure that I speak for everybody across the House — that through our leadership on sanction , with our good legal mind , we have manage to bring in all those financial penalty against the aggressor ? I thank the Minister for her answer . President Zelensky have be clear that NATO membership must mean article 5 include the entirety of Ukraine territory . what discussion have the fcdo , and perhaps the Minister , have with our NATO ally to ensure that that be the case ? will she commit in particular to discuss the issue with the current and incoming US Secretaries of State to ensure that a co - ordinate approach be take on behalf of Ukraine ? as the hon . Member be aware , Ukraine ' s place be in NATO ; it have say so itself . he support that principle . ally agree in Washington on 10 July that Ukraine be on an irreversible path to full Euro - atlantic integration , include NATO membership . of course , the UK fully support that goal . the hon . member play an important role in that because in the US there be important irish counterpart , or those who might have heritage there , who will want to hear from he to lay out the case for support Ukraine . give the NATO Secretary - General ' s recent warning about a grow alliance between China , Russia , Iran and North Korea , will the Minister clarify what work the UK be do to counter that threat ? as my hon . friend might have gather , it be from a position of weakness that those country be be rely on to shore up support . that be why it be so important that we look holistically at our sanction regime , which can not be just about the current conflict . it must also be about how we stop the iranian military juggernaut and how we look at the military industrial complex , which work across all sort of different regime . that be why it be also so important to understand how the economy of the DPRK can tip into Russia and for we to work with country who support we and do not support that particular access so that we can win the argument as well as the battle . I be grateful to the Minister for the clarity she have bring to the urgent question . I do not think anyone in the House agree that Vladimir Putin can be allow to get away with take even a single inch of territory in Ukraine , and I do not think that anyone be not alive to the danger of give people like that what they want — they always come back for more . give those fact , will she confirm that we will back Ukraine for as long as it take , and that any eventual deal will be complete entirely on Ukraine ' s term and not on Russia ' s ? of course . that be why we have support Ukraine as it have make the case for want to be in NATO and as it have make the case for be as close as possible to friend in Europe . that be why we have support the Ukrainians in their request for either military or non - military aid . that be why we have implore other , even as far away as the Indo - Pacific , to assist in this push to ensure that there be as much support as possible to stand up to bully . Georgia ( Urgent question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the outcome of the parliamentary election in Georgia . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . follow the election in Georgia on 26 October , the Minister for Europe , North America and the Overseas Territories , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , make clear our support for the finding of the OSCE office for democratic institution and human right ' election monitoring mission preliminary report on the election . that report highlight a range of concern , include frequent breach of voter secrecy , procedural inconsistency and report of intimidation and pressure on voter , which have a negative impact on public trust in the process . this have seriously damage Georgia ' s international reputation . I hereby reiterate our call on the Government of Georgia to implement the recommendation issue by the OSCE monitoring mission after the publication of its final report . Georgia and the UK have enjoy a long history of close bilateral relation , and we have fully support Georgia ' s Euro - atlantic aspiration in line with the strong will of the georgian people and previously support the Georgian Government ' s reform agenda . however , since gain EU accession status almost one year ago , several measure introduce by the Georgian Government have take the country on a harmful trajectory away from european value , and we have see an increase in anti - western rhetoric by the Government . the Minister for Europe , North America and the Overseas Territories speak to georgian Foreign Minister Darchiashvili on 9 October to relay the UK ' s concern about the introduction of a law on transparency and foreign influence and a law on family value . on 11 October , we reiterate our concern as to how that contribute to pressure on civil society and human right . those action undermine georgian citizen ' clear ambition for a modern , inclusive Euro - Atlantic future and jeopardise the UK ' s close partnership with the Georgian Dream Government . People in Georgia be make clear their opposition to georgian Dream ' s decision to pause the country ' s further move towards a european future . I be deeply concern by report of excessive use of force by georgian police against protester exercise legitimate democratic right . this morning , the Minister for Europe , North America and the Overseas Territories release a statement condemn the use of brutal force that have continue over recent day . we have call on the georgian authority to de - escalate the situation and reverse their harmful trajectory away from european value . continue step away from democratic norm and freedom will serve only to harm Georgia ' s international reputation and risk fundamentally damaging relation with Georgia ' s friend and partner . the UK Government have already decide to review their relation with the Georgian Government , include by freeze our annual Wardrop strategic dialogue until we see sign of a reversal of this anti - democratic slide . first , thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . as you will be aware , people across the Chamber have friend in Georgia , who will be reassure that we have take the time to discuss this matter . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a trustee of the John Smith Trust , which have do fantastic work in Georgia and elsewhere . I hope you do not mind I mention that . Georgia be a country in which I have live and work ; I know that other colleague have do so as well . like other in the Chamber , I care for it deeply . I thank the Minister for her statement . I highlight the work that she mention of her ministerial colleague , the excellent work of the embassy in Tbilisi , and UK - base international non - governmental organisation , who have do fantastic work for year . we have be so disturbed in the aftermath of the election . the danger of destabilisation in Georgia be acute when 20 % of Georgia ' s territory be still under russian control — it be occupy . far to her statement , will the Minister tell we what discussion she have have with european partner over Georgia ' s EU accession , which be vital to its long - term stability , and what work be ongoing to ensure that the rule of law be enshrine and fortified and to protect the freedom of the medium and journalist and the freedom to protest ? finally , have visit the border with Russia recently , I ask the Minister what work be be do to ensure that Georgia maintain sanction on Russia regardless of the Administration in Tbilisi . I thank the hon . gentleman for his commitment to and intimate knowledge of Georgia . I underline the importance of his point on the freedom of the press — we need to know what be happen — and the freedom to protest . emotion be run high follow the election campaign , but police brutality be never acceptable . it be so important that people who wish to be able to express their view safely . I thank he for put that on the record . on the discussion the Minister for Europe , North America and the Overseas Territories have have , the hon . Gentleman underline the importance of UK support for the democratic process and speak about the irregularity during the election campaign , which worry we , as partner during the election proceeding . as he will be aware , we have call for an investigation into those irregularity so we can be clear that the result be correct . we have take the decision to pause our discussion at a political level until there be more stability ; in that time , we will see how thing develop with the forming of the new Government , and so on . the hon . Gentleman be right to lay out his concern . we will relay they not just from ourselves as a Government , but from this Parliament . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I read with some alarm the report about the georgian election , include a report by the OSCE on vote buying , multi - vote , russian disinformation and intimidation . be the Minister aware that the European Parliament pass a motion last Thursday state that the election have be neither free nor fair , and should be rerun ? be the british position the same ? I thank the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee for her intimate knowledge of the election in Georgia . our current position be to monitor the situation . we be look carefully at what our european partner say , but we be also encourage the georgian authority to determine any complaint , as there have be a number of complaint about irregularity . we be clear that all irregularity should be thoroughly investigate . in addition , we be call for demonstration to be peaceful , an end to any police brutality , the exercise of restraint , and respect for the process of the formation of a new government . while we be not call for a rerun of the election , we want to know the outcome of the investigation into those irregularity . I call the Opposition spokesperson . I be grateful to the Minister for her remark so far . the shocking and disturbing scene in Georgia have be hard for all to witness , and I note the statement put out by the Foreign Office this morning . we share the Government ' s deep anxiety over the situation in Georgia . what be happen in Georgia matter . from the law on foreign influence to election irregularity and the excessive use of force in recent day against protester and journalist , we be witness Georgia be drag down a dangerous path . it matter for the georgian people , for our important bilateral relationship , and for the wide Euro - Atlantic community , which sincerely seek close tie and a deep friendship with Georgia . our clear and unambiguous aim should be to support the georgian people , and that include their desire for a future root in the Euro - Atlantic community . will the Minister confirm she have tell her georgian counterpart , in no uncertain term , that they need to tone down the aggressive rhetoric , de - escalate the situation on the street and stop blame other for the current tension ? will she also commit to pull every diplomatic lever to support the georgian people as they go through this dark period ? finally , and more broadly , I will circle back to the question I ask last week at Foreign Office question , because this be a clear example of the danger of Europe become a more contested space . will the Minister urgently come forward with a plan that build on the work of the previous Government to be more muscular in leverage our soft power , so that we can counter attempt to sow division and instead bang the drum for the Euro - Atlantic community ? we need to demonstrate to country in Europe and around the world that a partnership with we , and choose democracy and openness , be the good route to prosperity . we believe that the georgian authority must investigate all irregularity and reverse the decline commitment to democracy , as the right hon . Lady have lay out . we fully support Georgia ' s Euro - atlantic aspiration , in line with the strong will of the georgian people . Georgia be a valuable international security partner in the south Caucasus with which we enjoy a long history and close bilateral relation . we be therefore redouble our effort to connect with Georgians , to encourage restraint and peaceful demonstration , and to encourage the investigation of those irregularity , so that there can be no doubt about what actually happen at the recent election . the UK remain resolutely committed to Georgia ' s independence and territorial integrity within its internationally recognise border . the right hon . Lady ask about soft power . of course , in this House we all know the importance of soft power . that be why we be work hard with the British Council and group that support democracy and young people in different democracy . follow 14 difficult year for soft power in the UK , when all funding be drain away from our important soft power organisation , that be also why we be seek to rebuild our reputation for soft power , where perhaps we have step backwards a little over the past few year . my georgian friend and colleague in civil society , with whom I have work for many year , be call this a Maidan moment for the country . protester have be brutally assault , and there have be report of journalist be hospitalise . give that many Georgian Dream official have tie to the UK , will the Minister say whether , if this continue , the full range of Government tool will be consider ? sanction , visa ban or financial restriction , for example , would hit those responsible where it really hurt . I thank my hon . friend , who chair the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax , for his pointed question and his support for freedom of the press . we know that journalist must be free to report the fact . although he tempt I to speculate , he know that I will not go there on any future sanction arrangement ; we always keep those quiet until we make the announcement , for obvious reason . he comment on the backsliding on freedom of the press and on the link between Georgia and the UK , which we will certainly investigate . if he have specific question or concern in relation to those matter , could he write to we so that we can investigate ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the suspension of Georgia ' s EU accession process be the late troubling step take by the pro - russian Georgian Government , and I welcome the assurance that the Government be press for the investigation of irregularity in that election . however , the use of excessive force against protester and journalist be unacceptable . political and democratic right should be protect , and free and open political protest must be permit . what further step can the UK Government take to raise these issue with the georgian Government ? the US have decide to suspend its strategic partnership with Georgia . I hear the Minister say that the Government be pause UK engagement , so will she tell the House under what condition she would follow the US and go far to formally suspend the UK ' s strategic partnership ? finally , the UK and the EU must speak with one voice in oppose democratic backsliding and russian interference in Georgia . how be the Minister strengthen the UK ' s dialogue with our EU partner to roll back russian influence and support democratic group in Georgia ? I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for his fulsome question . with regard to our involvement in the region , we back and pay for observer for the election period . we be wait to hear about the investigation into irregularity . the current UK position be that , due to our grow concern over Georgia ' s negative Euro - atlantic trajectory — go away from the EU — and democratic backsliding , include on the law on transparency , foreign influence and family value , in June the UK decide to freeze the annual Wardrop UK - Georgia strategic dialogue and defence staff talk . we use a suspension initially because we want to appear reasonable , and we want Georgia to be reasonable back , but that do not preclude future more definitive action if necessary . the Minister will be aware of widespread report of vote buying , ballot stuffing and carousel voting — people vote multiple time — in the georgian election . it come just a few week after very similar report from Moldova where , again , there be massive electoral interference . what more can we do to help country that be try to move away from Russia ' s orbit and become more democratic , and to stop russian interference in those election ? the right hon . Gentleman have a long history of raise these sort of concern in the House , and I thank he for it . the Georgian Government show no sign of take seriously the need to make the progress that the UK want . indeed , they take retrograde step , harm progress towards EU membership and pass law to designate NGOs and medium outlet operate in Georgia that receive more than 20 % funding from abroad as agent of foreign influence — of course , an excuse to crack down . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about coerce voter and an atmosphere of pressure on civil society , in response , the opposition party refuse to take up their seat . we be watch very carefully . the Minister for Europe , North America and the Overseas Territories , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , have speak to Tbilisi , and our excellent mission there be monitor very carefully and report back on a daily basis on the formation of the new group . if the right hon . Gentleman email the Minister , he will give he a blow - by - blow description . what kind of conversation be the Government have with counterpart in Georgia to ensure that the right to assemble and the freedom to protest be be respect ? I thank the relatively newly elect Member for his question . those of we who participate in election all know how emotional they can be , but that be no excuse for police brutality should protestor want to protest about coercion during the election , how the election take place or the result itself . I be very pleased that the hon . Gentleman have raise in the House today the importance of restraint and of push back against the atmosphere of pressure on civil society . it be particularly dishearten to see young people , who be so excited about a more open and hopeful future , freedom of the press and freedom to associate , be crack down on in the way that they have be . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) on secure this urgent question . last week the European Parliament call for a re - run of the election , describe they as be neither free nor fair , and accuse the rule party of be fully responsible for democratic backsliding in Georgia . why have the UK Government not go as far as the European Parliament in call for a re - run of the election ? will the Minister commit to share the evidence that she get on electoral irregularity ? what representation have the fcdo make to the georgian ambassador to the UK about the road that the people of Georgia be be force down ? I thank the hon . member for his question and for his general interest in foreign policy matter in this House . he will be aware that the Minister for Europe , North America and the Overseas Territories , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , make clear the UK ' s support for the finding of the preliminary report of the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights election monitoring mission . the Government support the programme with 50 observer to the election . the report highlight irregularity , but while the investigation into those electoral irregularity be ongoing , the reasonable position to take be to wait for it to be complete so that we can understand exactly what go on and how much coercion there be . as a result , we would speak to our interlocutor — the georgian ambassador and our mission in Tbilisi — about impress upon Government figure the impact on Georgia ' s international reputation of have a whole lot of young people protest in the public square . we have call on the Government of Georgia to implement the recommendation of the monitoring mission after the publication of the report , so that we can base our policy on the fact in that report . as I explain to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , we do not have an identical position to european partner . we want to take a reasonable position and ask question , but that do not preclude take firm action later if we remain concerned about how the Government be form follow this election . I thank the Minister again for her answer . freedom , liberty and democracy be vital for Georgia to have an unfettered , stable government , and so that people can express themselves without violence . it be clear that Russia have negatively influence the election and the Government . how can our Government work in tandem with those who want democracy , as every georgian citizen want and deserve ? do the british embassy in Tbilisi have enough staff and resource to respond to all the british citizen in Tbilisi ? what advice be give to they — do they stay ; what should they do ? I thank the hon . member for his ongoing commitment to freedom and peaceful relation and his interest in keep the UK ' s reputation for support democracy so alive in this House . our mission in Tbilisi will be watch or read this urgent question , include his concern and question . it be so important to support Georgia ' s Euro - atlantic aspiration , in line with the strong will of the georgian people over the past few year , particularly in the light of the conflict in Ukraine , which be in its neighbourhood . that be why we have be such a strong supporter of democratic reform over many year , work with Parliament , civil society , independent medium and the Government to support reform and Georgia ' s continue progress towards membership of the Euro - Atlantic community . the mission in Tbilisi be well resource . we have excellent professional there , work very closely to understand the exact investigation into the irregularity of the election , try to see what be happen with the formation of the new Government post - election , call for restraint so that those battle on the square do not turn into any form of police brutality , but retain that vision of freedom and democracy . I have meet young Georgians here in the UK who be watch with desperation , fear and depression as legislation on foreign influence restrict their right , the medium and organisation deal with all sort of development right . they be also see their colleague brutally repress on the street as they try to have freedom of association and to keep what be enshrine in their constitution — movement towards EU accession — as it be be rip away from they . what can the Minister say to those young people ? will she and the ambassador be open to meet they ? they be in a terrible state of anxiety right now . I thank the hon . Lady for her concern . I thank she , too , for her impassione plea for peaceful expression of political view and for the UK to play its role in support not only that vision for freedom , but a stable assessment follow the election , act on the information and investigation material that have come forward from the report . of course we support the election observer , so we need to listen to what they say as a result of those investigation . let I also thank the hon . Lady for her condemnation of the brutal and excessive force use against protester and journalist . I will certainly pass on her exhortation to be on the side of those with vision and those who wish to freely express their point of view . UK Supply Chains : Uyghur Forced Labour ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if he will make a statement on the link between the UK ' s supermarket supply chain and Uyghur force labour . the UK address force labour in global supply chain under section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , which require commercial business that operate in the UK and have a turnover of £ 36 million or more to report annually on the step they have take to prevent modern slavery in their operation and supply chain . the purpose be to provide transparency , whereby business monitor their supply chain with rigour , be open about their risk and mitigation , listen to their worker , and act when they do find issue . in addition , the Department for Business and Trade take a number of step to address force labour within UK supply chain . we negotiate and implement force labour and modern slavery provision within our free trade agreement programme , the develop country trading scheme allow for the suspension of preferential trading arrangement on ground of serious violation of labour right , and UK Export Finance review environmental , social and human right risk factor for transaction in the scope of its policy . we regularly engage with business and international partner in respect of both domestic and international tool to combat force labour . on Xinjiang specifically , we will continue to stand firm on human right where China continue to persecute and arbitrarily detain Uyghurs and other predominantly muslim minority . the UK Government also expect , encourage and support UK business to undertake due diligence so that human right and environmental issue be consider in their operation and supply chain relationship , in line with the OECD guideline on responsible business conduct . I thank the Minister for his statement , but , with the great respect , what he have describe be clearly not work . yesterday ' s " blood on the shelf " BBC investigation have rightly shock the british public . tomato product sell in UK supermarket , with label inform british customer that pur é es be " Italian make " or " produce in Italy " , be actually link to slave labour in the Xinjiang Uyghur autonomous region . our weak and confusing product label regulation have allow linguistic sleight of hand to occur with , one can only assume , the aim of mislead consumer . I have to push the Minister : what more evidence be require to prove that we need strong labelling standard that give consumer more information on the source country of pre - pack product ? in the Uyghur region , egregious human right abuse be take place every single day , all underpin by a system of state - impose forced labour . it be estimate that several hundred thousand people be involve in the production of tomato against their will . the United Nations have report force labour , torture and abuse . survivor of the tomato field cite have to meet impossible daily quota , with physical torture such as electrocution use as punishment for fail to meet those target , yet tomato product create use these barbaric practice line the shelf of our supermarket and be sell as if they have be produce in a completely different country . sadly , this investigation be just the late in a long line of report show that UK supply chain be awash with Uyghur force labour product . clothing , steel and solar have a serious dependency on Uyghur force labour . the Modern Slavery Act be itself currently unfit for purpose . current law mean that company be legally allow to self - regulate , as human right due diligence be optional for UK company . we be now an outlier on legislation to prevent human right abuse . the United States have enact important legislation , as have the European Union , but the UK , once again , be a global outlier when it come to slave - make good . I urge the Government to work with I to implement strong legislation , improve our labelling standard and champion human right . to supermarket , I say , " all of you be complicit in put profit above human right , and I hope that the british public do the right thing and make their mark through their pocket and their wallet . " let I first pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for the consistency and focus that she have bring to this issue . it be not a new worry for she . I assure she that I share that concern yesterday morning when I hear the report and the allegation that be level in relation to tomato paste , and I also assure she that the Government will approach the company in question to try to establish more clearly the exact fact that underlie those deeply worrying report . I think we be again in complete agreement about the egregious character of the human right abuse take place in Xinjiang province . I be glad to say that the Prime Minister in his most recent meeting with President Xi Jinping , and indeed the Foreign Secretary in his recent meeting with his counterpart , specifically raise the issue of human right in China , notwithstanding our willingness to engage directly with the Government of that country . as for the work that we be do , the formal position of the Government remain that we expect all company to conduct business responsibly , in line with the OECD guideline for multinational business on responsible business conduct and the UN guide principle on business and human right . my hon . Friend mention the legislation that have be pass in the United States . in the United States , the European Union , Canada and Mexico , legislation have be introduce or be in the process of be introduce specifically for import ban to prevent such good from enter their market in the first place , and I assure my hon . friend that we be review the impact of those measure to inform what should be the UK ' s approach . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) on secure the urgent question . let I also welcome the Minister back to Parliament , as well as to his place on the Front Bench . as the hon . Lady say , the human right abuse take place against the Uyghurs in Xinjiang be egregious . in government we take robust action , lead international condemnation and sanction individual and an entity involve to tackle the problem at source . we also take further measure to ensure that british company be not involve , include the introduction of export control and financial penalty for organisation that fail to meet their obligation under the Modern Slavery Act . those measure must be retain , and indeed review , to ensure that british company and consumer do not indirectly support the human right abuse . the Minister say that the new Government be commit to the measure introduce by the last Conservative Government . he also mention that two week ago the Prime Minister hold a bilateral meeting with President Xi . in the read - out from No . 10 , however , there be no explicit mention of human right abuse in Xinjiang , which be disappointing . can the Minister elaborate on exactly what be say at that bilateral meeting ? be human right abuse against the Uyghurs in Xinjiang explicitly raise ? if the Minister decide to meet his chinese counterpart , will he commit himself to explicitly raise those human right abuse ? indeed , will all Ministers across the government always raise this issue in all their bilateral meeting ? the Government make a manifesto commitment to carry out an audit of our relation with China . can the Minister confirm that the audit will cover trade and the issue of good in the UK supply chain that be produce in Xinjiang ? can he tell we whether the impact of the accelerated roll - out of electric vehicle and solar panel and the 2030 decarbonisation target will also be audit ? give the Government ' s so far unsuccessful mission to grow the UK economy , will the Minister agree that that growth must not come at the price of restrict our condemnation of human right abuse in China ? I thank the Opposition spokesperson for she characteristically kind and generous word in welcome I back to Parliament and , indeed , the Dispatch Box . there be a tension between the first two question we have hear , with my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham observe that there be a need for radical transformation in the legislation and , on the other hand , the Opposition spokesperson assert that it be adequate , although she drift into demand a review of her own legislation after only five month in opposition . we should try to find common ground , rather than score point . I assure the hon . Lady that the Government stand firm on human right , include in Xinjiang , where China continue to persecute and arbitrarily detain Uyghurs and other predominantly muslim minority . that include raise our concern at the high level with the Chinese Government , and co - ordinating effort in international fora to hold China to account for human right violation . the hon . Lady ask specifically about where the treatment of the Uyghurs have be raise as a human right issue . during the recent session of the Human Rights Council in September , the UK sign a US - lead joint statement on Xinjiang , call out China ' s persecution of Uyghurs and restriction of civil society , and urge China to engage meaningfully with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and to implement the recommendation make in its assessment . where possible , the Government also conduct independent visit to area of major concern and support non - governmental organisation in expose and react to human right violation . on previous occasion when I have visit China as a Government Minister , I have of course raise the issue of human right , and I will continue to endeavour to do so . on the hon . Lady ' s rather ungenerous observation about the growth mission , it be perfectly possible for a Government to set themselves a clear ambition to raise the UK economy ' s trend rate of growth , and to continue to be a strong and powerful advocate for human right in China and elsewhere . like many , I be very concerned to see the report to which my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) refer . do the Minister agree that forced labour be a threat to supply chain and to the resilience of our economy not just in our food sector , but across our entire economy ? I be in full agreement with my hon . friend . for business to be able to invest and thrive , they need confidence in their supply chain , which be why the Government be establish a new supply chain taskforce . the taskforce will work to assess where supply chain that be critical to the UK ' s economic security and resilience , include those in the growth sector identify in the industrial strategy , could be vulnerable to disruption . the taskforce will ensure that the Government work with business to address the risk , include by explore wide - range policy solution and other mitigation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I , too , congratulate the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) on secure the urgent question , and welcome the Minister back to Parliament and to his place ? food labelling and food safety be among the most important issue for our diet and for our health . they allow consumer to make informed choice , and to ensure that food be safe and consistent with consumer ' ethical and moral belief . I be very pleased to hear the Minister say that the Government will look at the impact of legislation in the US , the EU and other country , particularly where it may involve import ban on product that have be produce use force labour . may I press he to tell we the timetable for do that review ? I thank the hon . Lady for her observation , and for the characteristically calm wisdom with which she speak about issue on which I think there be a high degree of consensus across the House . give that we have be in government for five month , it be appropriate that we review the effectiveness of the Modern Slavery Act , which , in its day , be clearly a pioneering piece of legislation that command support across the House . in that sense , the review and the desire to understand the impact of the Act be inform by more recent innovation , such as those in the United States , the EU and Canada . I can assure the hon . Lady that alongside the trade strategy that we be publish and the industrial strategy that we aim to publish in the spring , we be already carefully consider the critical element of other legislation and see whether there be scope for strengthen the approach take by the UK . do my right hon . friend agree that self - regulation , to which my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) refer , be often a euphemism for minimal or , indeed , no regulation ? be he confident that current legislation be sufficient to compel business operate in the UK to address the risk of modern slavery and , most importantly , the risk to the human right of the people be exploit ? notwithstanding the concern that have be express in the Chamber about the exist statutory framework , we need to send a clear and unequivocal signal that no company in the United Kingdom that operate under the exist statutory framework should have any forced labour whatsoever in its supply chain . there be already rule in place to compel company to publish statement demonstrate that they have meet their very clear legal obligation , not least in relation to the exploitation of which my hon . friend speak . I welcome the right hon . gentleman to his place , and I congratulate the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) — she be my hon . friend in this case — on raise a really important issue . I also welcome another person on the Government Front Bench , who will remain nameless — I be sure that Hansard will pick they out . the problem with all this be that it do not seem to matter who be in government ; the Foreign Office and other Departments try to block everything to do with slavery . I be one of the people who drive through the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , which we know be long past its sell - by date with regard to modern slavery . I try to co - operate with the government when they be in opposition , and we need to change the law , because we have real problem with net zero . right now , we have polysilicon array come in from Xinjiang in massive quantity , and nothing be be do about it . this be not just about Xinjiang ; there be a quarter of a million people from Tibet in force labour . the only way to address the issue be to do what we do with the Health and Care Act 2022 , which we amend to ensure that the Department of Health and Social Care have a duty to eradicate slavery . in America , supply chain be check use forensic science provide by Oritain , but we do not do any of that . will we move towards check all supply chain , and put legislation in place to make it a criminal offence to have anything to do with slave labour ? let I pay tribute to the right hon . gentleman for his sustained effort on , and interest in , these issue . it have come at some personal cost ; he have receive criticism from foreign government . he be an example to we all in this Chamber in his willingness to speak up for human right without fear or favour . on his point , first , I see the answer as involve enforcement of the current legislation . it be important to reaffirm that legislation be clear about company ' mandatory obligation , regardless of whether they import from Xinjiang or elsewhere . secondly , as I have say , we intend to look carefully at whether lesson can be draw from other jurisdiction , notwithstanding the good effort of the right hon . Gentleman and many other in this Chamber at the time of the initiation of the Modern Slavery Act . early this year , the Global Legal Action Network and the World Uyghur Congress file a legal case against the National Crime Agency ' s decision not to investigate suspect force - labour good from Xinjiang . that lead to a landmark ruling , which establish that any good suspect of be link to Uyghur forced labour can be consider criminal property when offer for sale in the UK . what measure have the Government take in the light of that landmark decision ? what protection be there , and what accountability measure be in place , in instance where UK business be still involve with good produce from forced labour ? it be important to draw a distinction between the legislative approach take by some jurisdiction , which have name country and province where there be abuse of human right , and the statutory foundation for the way that british business be expect to conduct itself , not least in relation to modern slavery and threat to the supply chain . notwithstanding the ruling of which the hon . Gentleman speak , the obligation on company predate that ruling and be set out very clearly in the Modern Slavery Act . when the Modern Slavery Act be introduce in 2015 , section 54 be indeed world lead . we be the first develop country to introduce any such legislation , but other country have overtake we . for many year , I have raise the US ' s " hot good " provision , which have be refer to today . may I urge the Minister to look at introduce a form of regulation that would put the onus on the importer to prove that no forced labour be use to make a product before it be allow to enter the UK supply chain , as happen in the US ? I pay tribute to the right hon . Lady for the work that she have do — and to other for their work — both during and after the passage of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . the Government recognise that the landscape have change since the Act be introduce , and we be commit to tackle modern slavery through a holistic Government and society approach that place victim and survivor of this serious crime back at the centre of our work . I can assure she that we be consider all the Home Affairs Committee ' s recommendation on this issue , which be recently publish , and we will issue our response to its report in due course . in addition to that , we be consider what element of other legislation be relevant to the Modern Slavery Act . I be willing to accept responsibility for the past five month , but I be conscious that she have be make these plea for long than that , and that her question might be well direct to those on her side of the House . I welcome the urgent question and the response from the Minister , because the oppression that the uyghur people face be absolutely appalling and shameful . the change nature of supply chain and of retail mean that this will be an evolve issue . can I encourage the Minister to keep those relationship under review , and to reach out to retailer and distributor , so that our response change in the light of the situation that we face ? my hon . friend make a powerful point , which be that we want to do this with business , rather than to business . of course there be varied conduct and there be varied level of adherence to requirement in the business community , and particularly in the retail sector , but my sense be that overwhelmingly , responsible retailer want to get this right , as surely as there be consensus in this House that we need to get this right . we will listen carefully to the voice of retailer . as he recognise , just - in - time good , fast fashion , logistic and supply chain be rapidly change and evolve . notwithstanding our willingness to engage with business , we have to recognise that sadly , some business will not accept a voluntarist approach and will need statutory regulation if we be to systematically address the exploitation about which so many of we be concerned . far to the question from the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , the US State Department have report that product from clothing to pharmaceutical , and everything in between , have be taint by slave labour , and they have find their way into home and business around the world . in 2021 , President Biden sign the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act , which say that " all good , ware , article and merchandise mine , produce , or manufacture wholly or in part " in Xinjiang could not enter the United States unless the importer could prove that what they be import have not be produce by slave labour . give that UK regulation be simply ineffective , will the Government look to introduce something similar to the US provision in the UK , and put the onus on importer , rather than consumer ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . since 2022 , the US have be operate an import ban target good from Xinjiang under the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act . the Act set out a rebuttable presumption that good make in Xinjiang or produce by certain list entity use force labour . it be right to recognise that the State Department bear the significant cost implication of that . we as a Government certainly view import control as one of the range of tool that could be use to tackle force labour in global supply chain , and that be why we continue to engage with like - minded partner — government and business — to figure out exactly what be the most effective response . be not the root of the problem the fact that successive british Governments , from David Cameron ' s onwards , have be willing to cuddle and cosy up to a communist totalitarian state , while try to preserve some pretence of distance themselves from direct human right abuse ? in reality , be it not the case that as long as we try to have major economic relation with a totalitarian state , it will always be possible for that state to divert the slave labour product to its domestic economy and export the other product to we ? so that action be really only a fig leaf , isn ' t it ? the right hon . Gentleman bring many year of experience to the bilateral relationship between the United Kingdom and China , and he will find no disagreement on this side of the House when he call out the disastrous foreign policy mistake of the former Member for Witney . we seem to have end up with the bad of both world in relation to China . first , there be a credulous naivety during the so - call golden era , when the then Chancellor and Prime Minister do not recognise the appropriate national interest of the United Kingdom . this be follow by a period when the United Kingdom , almost uniquely , seem to be in the deep freeze . the last time a Prime Minister of this country meet President Xi Jinping be , I understand , under the former Member for Maidenhead . our approach be neither clear - eyed nor capable of communicate influence ; nor do it allow we to raise human right issue in the way that we want to . the responsible course for a British Government be to recognise the complexity of the bilateral relationship , and the fact that there be significant trade dependency and geopolitical challenge . the right and responsible course be the approach that have be take since 4 July . the Prime Minister have a meeting with Xi Jinping a couple of week back , but clearly say that engagement will be pragmatic , and base on a clear - eyed sense of where Britain ' s national interest lie . alas , we have not see that clarity or that steady stewarding of the british national interest over the past 14 year , but I be relieved that , through the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister , we have bring a different dimension to the relationship in the last five month . my constituent be angry that this Government want to cover Lincolnshire ' s beautiful countryside with solar panel , ruin the landscape and damage food security , but they be particularly horrify to hear that many of those solar panel could be produce use slave labour . the Minister have talk about increase import control as a way of prevent that . when do he plan to introduce they , and what be the further measure that he allude to ? I be not sure that I be in agreement , notwithstanding the high degree of consensus in the House , with the hon . Lady ' s opposition to solar farm . we believe that the essential transition to a net zero economy require not only onshore wind but , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade have make clear , offshore wind , on which the United Kingdom be rightly a leader , as well as onshore solar . we be simply in disagreement if the hon . Lady ' s argument be that we should oppose solar farm development . that be say , she be entirely right to recognise that the net zero transition should not be at the cost of any latitude on the clear provision of the Modern Slavery Act . it be mandatory rather than voluntary . that legislation be introduce by our predecessor , and we be consider it carefully in the light of change in other jurisdiction , but it none the less place clear obligation on those seek to import to the United Kingdom . Deputy Speaker ' s statement I be sorry to have to remind Ministers once again of the requirement for major new policy announcement to be make in the House in the first instance , not to the medium . this afternoon ' s statement have already be the subject of extensive coverage in the print and broadcast medium , as well as in a long piece on the Home Office website . hon . and right hon . member on the Government Benches be quick to criticise Ministers in the previous Government for this kind of behaviour . Mr Speaker have make it clear that he intend to hold they to the same high standard now that they be in government . the Home Office seem to have a particular problem with make media announcement before minister make statement to the House . Mr Speaker will write to the Prime Minister to remind he of the rule . I also remind the Home Secretary that it be open to Mr Speaker to grant an urgent question on any subject , on any day . tackle stalk first and foremost , Madam Deputy Speaker , I must apologise , for myself and on behalf of the Government , and I be sure that your word , speak on behalf of Mr Speaker , have be hear by all . with permission , I will make a statement on the action that this Government will take to improve the response to stalk . depression , anxiety , fear , trouble sleep and loss of confidence . these be just some of the way that stalk can ruin life . victim be subject to an onslaught of psychological and emotional terror that can go on for month or year . and even if the perpetrator be catch and the stalking come to an end , the impact of be torment day after day and night after night persist . for many victim , it never leave they . I be sure the whole House will agree that it be unacceptable for anyone to suffer in this way . this be a serious threat , and one that affect a substantial proportion of the population . accord to the late statistic , in England and Wales , one in seven people over 16 have be a victim of stalk at least once in their lifetime . alas , I think that the statistic would be even high in this House . give the scale and impact of these crime , it be right that we ask ourselves whether enough be be do to stop they and , when they occur , whether we be respond effectively . I be afraid that the answer on both count be no . in September , follow a joint investigation , his Majesty ' s chief inspector of constabulary , the Independent Office for Police Conduct and the College of Policing publish a report in response to a super - complaint on stalk make by the Suzy Lamplugh Trust . the report find " significant change be need to improve the police response " . I have hear first - hand account of stalk victim who have not be listen to , or who have even be tell that they should be " flatter " by their stalker ' s action . this be totally unacceptable , and it have to change . the report on the super - complaint make nine recommendation to the Government , and today I will update the House on the action we intend to take in response . we will introduce a power to issue multi - agency statutory guidance on stalking , which will set out for the first time a robust framework for how frontline professional should define stalk and well work together . we will review stalk legislation to determine whether and how the law can be change . and we will improve our understanding of the operation of the current law by publish more datum on stalk offence . we will also make good on our manifesto commitment to give victim the right to know who their online stalker be . the House may be surprised to hear that victim do not already have this right . the broadcaster and activist Nicola Thorp tell I about how she be stalk and abuse online by a stranger whose identity she do not know . her stalker set up almost 30 social media account to send she a constant stream of violent and misogynistic message . her ordeal be make bad when she be tell by the police that , although they know who her stalker be , they could not tell she , even after he be arrest . Nicola have to continue live with that fear , look over her shoulder and not know whether the person near she be her stalker , until she finally see he in court . that be not right , and she be not the only victim to have endure this . Nicola be with we today , and I pay tribute to her activism for change . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) who , unfortunately , be busy chair the Foreign Affairs Committee . she hear about Nicola ' s story when we be in opposition , and she work with she to develop a new policy that be come to fruition today . inspire by Nicola , and with thank to my right hon . friend , the Government will introduce statutory " right to know " guidance that will set out the process by which the police should release identify information about anonymous stalk perpetrator to victim . we be also act to ensure that the risk pose by perpetrator be manage , and that the cause of their behaviour be address . we will legislate to enable the court to impose stalk protection order , of their own volition , which can impose restriction and positive requirement on those who pose a risk , on conviction and on acquittal . these order be currently available only where the police make an application to the magistrate court . and we will publish national standard for stalk perpetrator programme that seek to engage with perpetrator to address the behaviour that be lead to stalk offence . this will help to ensure these programme be evidence - base and consistent . take together , our package will strengthen the system so that victim have the protection they need and the support they deserve . I have see at first hand the good work be do in some force . I recently visit Cheshire constabulary , which have a multidisciplinary team of police , psychologist and probation officer work effectively together . we need to see all force take this sort of action . we will ensure that stalker be robustly target , with effective arrangement in place to address the root cause of their behaviour , like in Cheshire . and we will respond to concern that frontline professional ' understanding of stalk be still not where it need to be , and that stalk legislation may not be work as intend . these be important first step , but I emphasise to the House that we be in this for the duration , because only through a sustained effort will we achieve the change that be so badly need . before I finish , I pay tribute to organisation such as the Suzy Lamplugh Trust and the wide National Stalking Consortium , and to brave victim like Nicola who have speak out and campaign for change . their tenacity and persistence have be instrumental in get we to this point , and I be grateful to they for all that they have do and continue to do . we will work closely with they and other key partner as we progress our mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . through that mission , we will show stalker and other offender that they have nowhere to hide . we will stand with victim and survivor so that they know that they be not alone . we will work relentlessly to give everyone the peace of mind they deserve as they go about their life , whether they be at home , online or anywhere else . our street belong to the law - abide majority , and under this government they always will . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for her statement , and for advance sight of it . we welcome the Government ' s announcement on stalk and remain committed to work with member across the House to do everything we can to tackle violence against woman and girl . I pay tribute to Nicola Thorp for share her experience , which be harrowing to hear . I can not even imagine the fear and worry that she will have go through during this ordeal . speak up take a great deal of courage , and I can not thank she enough for bring this situation to light . I also thank the Minister for all she have do throughout her career to ensure that woman and girl who have encounter violence of all kind receive the support and care they need . I also pay tribute to she for speak up about her own experience as a victim of stalk . as my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) say in a previous debate , we must also discuss the role of man in these incident , as the evidence show that man be more likely to be the perpetrator of violence against woman and girl . furthermore , we must not forget the large number of male victim , who overwhelmingly experience violence at the hand of other man too . the previous Government make real progress on this issue . we launch our tackling violence against woman and girl strategy to increase support for victim . we elevate violence against woman and girl to a crime type that police leader must treat as a national threat . we ensure that victim can always access professional support . we double the maximum sentence for stalker from five to 10 year , keep behind bar for long those who devastate their victim ' life . we also make stalk a specific offence , to ensure that woman and girl be protect and to show beyond doubt that stalk be a crime . we know that the most harmful illegal online content disproportionately affect woman and girl , and that be why the Online Safety Act 2023 require platform to proactively tackle illegal content such as harassment , stalk , control or coercive behaviour , extreme pornography and revenge pornography . it be not right that victim have to live in fear because they be not allow to know who their stalker be , so I welcome the Government ' s announcement that the police will be able to reveal the identity of online stalker under the new " right to know " power . I be pleased that the court will be able to impose stalk protection order directly at conviction or on acquittal , if there be enough evidence to suggest that there be still a risk to the victim . we also welcome the announcement that multi - agency statutory guidance on stalk will be introduce so that professional know how well to work together to tackle this issue . we know , however , that there be still much more to do to tackle not only the crime of stalking but violence against woman and girl . I welcome the Government ' s pledge to halve the rate of violence against woman and girl in a decade , as it be a significant target . the Minister have confirm that the Government be still work towards this target , but will she confirm that the target have not disappear from the Government ' s priority ? could she also set out what metric will be use for measure the rate of violence against woman and girl and , therefore , the Government ' s success against the target ? member across the House , and people across society , must work together to stop violence against woman and girl . we welcome the Government ' s action on stalk , and we want to work with they to eradicate this crime once and for all . I thank the hon . gentleman for his support and the tone in which he have approach the issue . I do not know where the idea that the Government have drop their mission to halve violence against woman and girl have come from , so I will say as clearly as I can : it be still the mission of the Government to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . that mission be not something that only the Home Secretary and I fight for , with people roll their eye at we ; it come right from the top , from the Prime Minister . the subject be an obsession of his , so the mission have not go away and the hon . Gentleman need not worry . on how we will measure the success of our mission , the prevalence of violence against woman and girl be currently measure by the crime survey for England and Wales . that will be our key headline metric for measure the ambition to halve VAWG . the Office for National Statistics be produce a combine violence against woman and girl prevalence measure that will include domestic abuse , sexual assault and stalking , because the data be not necessarily collect like that at the moment . there will be not just a headline metric but many metric and test sit underneath it , such as for female homicide , femicide , repeat domestic abuse victim and the prevalence of sexual harassment , which will inform a suite of measure . the hon . Gentleman be right that the previous Government ' s effort in the House and on the statute book be not without care or attention to violence against woman and girl , but the difference that that make on the street be questionable . we need robust measure to ensure that the nice word that we write on goatskin actually mean something . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , but the simple act of block on social medium can incentivise a determined stalker , create huge level of vulnerability , violation , fear and loss of control for their target , or even multiple target . social medium provide the perfect disguise . who know if their stalker be sit on their phone around the corner or tap on a computer on the other side of the world ? will the Minister advise I on the work that she be do with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology on that very important matter ? to be completely clear , what be illegal offline be also illegal online . today , the Government be announce how we will make stalk protection order more robust . such order can be use to tackle online stalking as much as any other type of stalking . the Online Safety Act include stalk offence in the list of specify priority offence . as my hon . Friend say , in Nicola Thorp ' s case , her stalker think the cloak of anonymity would protect he . the tech company have the capability to identify such people , but we need to ensure that they be work with the police , and that the police be work with the victim , so that everybody can be keep safe . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement , which I welcome . stalk be a horrific crime that impact every aspect of the victim ' s life , threaten their mental health , wellbee and , all too often , their physical safety . far too many people , in particular woman and girl , face that pervasive threat , so I welcome the development that the Minister have announce today , particularly around improve the police response to stalk . that will be vital for rebuild woman ' s trust in police . sadly , I have first - hand experience of the topic . from my own knowledge , the police can find it easy to deal with such crime via harassment legislation , rather than stalk legislation . Police often assume that the perpetrator be a former partner when the condition of a restraining order be breach , for example , thereby fail to recognise the wide range of circumstance that can lead to these frightening situation . we should not take a one - size - fit - all approach to stalking , because that could leave a legal hole for victim when the stalking be not relate to domestic abuse or a previous relationship . I would welcome some more detail from the Minister on whether the Government ' s plan will include well training for police officer and 999 call handler to ensure that when a stalk victim come forward , the response be always sensitive , effective and personalised . it be right that the Minister be consider how good we can hold perpetrator to account , so I would welcome further detail on how she be work with the Ministry of Justice to tackle the Conservatives ' legacy of criminal court backlog , which will be the only way to truly ensure that stalk victim get the swift justice they deserve . no woman should face the fear of be target by a stalker , and it be absolutely right that we work across the House to make that a reality . the hon . Lady be exactly right about a lack of faith in resource , which be exactly what lead to the super - complaint be make . she be right that there be a 60 : 40 split between non - stranger stalking , include after previous domestic abuse or a relationship , and other stalking . we have to get it right for people who have experience either type of stalking , because the experience be the same . the National Police Chiefs ' Council be engage with 43 police force to co - ordinate the response to the recommendation of the super - complaint . police chief be require to publish an action plan set out how they will respond ; some have already do so . I pay massive tribute to Cheshire and to the Met , which have an amazing multi - agency system . I will be monitor force ' progress to ensure they respond . we will be review the offence in section 2A and 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 . as the hon . Lady rightly point out , those offence sit within harassment legislation . as somebody who have bring a number of harassment charge , I know that sometimes the charge that appear on the sheet do not feel like the one of which I have be the victim . I thank the Minister for her statement , which will be welcome news to any victim of stalk . I thank she for her relentless work on the issue , which I know have personally affect she . I also thank my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) for all her work on the matter . my local police force will welcome the news in the statement . I will be out with my local police on Monday evening , on a walk with woman and girl , with the aim of reduce violence and enable woman to talk about their experience of violence and stalking . the measure set out by the Minister will be welcome news to everybody in my constituency of North Warwickshire and Bedworth . speak as someone who be local to North Warwickshire and Bedworth — well , local by the standard of the House — it be very pleasant to hear my hon . friend ' s accent , which be not too dissimilar to mine . I look forward to work with police force across the country to ensure that the right service be available to all victim of stalk the first time they come forward , whether they be male or female , as the shadow Minister point out . I look forward to work with my hon . friend and any Member of the House who also wish to take part . I congratulate the Minister on take office . will she elaborate on what the root of the problem be when it come to not know who be do electronic stalking or harassment ? do the main problem lie with the internet company , or do it lie with the police , who sometimes think that privacy be such an absolute right that misbehaviour do not vitiate it ? I suspect the truth lie somewhere in between . in Nicola ' s case , the police be able to find out information about the stalker from a series of anonymous account , some of which be pretend to be woman , but the problem arise because of privacy , as the right hon . Gentleman suggest . police force be worried about be bogge down in red tape , so what we will put on the statute book , in statutory guidance , be essentially a power flow from the Home Secretary to tell police force that they can provide information , because in such circumstance safeguard be a perfectly legitimate reason to override privacy . the victim of stalking will know that intense , unsettling feeling , whether that be as they pass through a dimly light underpass and feel someone follow they or when they be be follow online . I thank the Minister for highlight the importance of tackle stalk wherever it take place . will she outline how the new " right to know " guidance will reassure and empower victim and help protect they from further abuse ? from speak to many victim , I know that stalk cause a lack of peace of mind . other form of violence against woman and girl be all equally bad , but there be something deeply psychological about be stalk and feel as if you have to change your behaviour and go to different place . the right to know who a stalker be , first and foremost , be about be able to rule out people a victim know . Most woman in our country know that they be more likely to be abuse by somebody they know , so they would be second - guess all the time and be drive far mad by the anonymity of that stalker . even without any justice outcome , therefore , empower those woman and give they back power and control over the situation be a gift of something that have be take from they . I thank the Minister for bring the statement to the House today . I be sure she will join I in thank a local charity , my Sisters ' House , which support woman in Chichester and Bognor specifically with relationship breakdown stalking , among other thing . as its staff say to I when I speak to they , anything that put the right of victim above the right of abuser be a positive step in the right direction . the Minister cite the great example of Cheshire constabulary , which be set a lead standard in its approach to the protection and welfare of victim . she also recognise that we need to see all force take that sort of action . however , with each police force act independently and priority be set by police and crime commissioner , how will she ensure that victim do not experience a postcode lottery in the support they receive ? the hon . Lady point out something very pertinent . I often like deal with Scotland because there be one police force . I be not suggest that for England , and nor be the Government , just to be clear — I worry that civil servant might be write down some of the thing I say . the hon . Lady make a very good point . have really good police force and really good sexual violence response in Avon and Somerset be no good to the people of Birmingham , be it ? it can not carry on in that way . one thing that have to be do , as part of the Government ' s mission to end violence against woman and girl and halve it within a decade , be to look at how we deal with police standard and monitor exactly what police force be do . it feel a little bit like the centre have take its eye off the ball on that in the past number of year . we will not solve the problem if we start have a great service in urban area but people be still leave want in Chichester and other place . I welcome today ' s statement . I think the House can agree that there be no well champion to deliver on this issue for those who desperately need it than my hon . friend the Minister . a constituent of mine have raise a harrowing case of stalking , whereby the perpetrator , in order to avoid justice , have simply flee the country , yet the stalking continue . do the Minister agree that border can not be a barrier to justice on this issue and will she meet I to discuss that specific case ? I absolutely will meet my hon . friend . I have deal with many extraterritorial case in the space of violence against woman and girl in my time as a Member of Parliament , so I be more than happy to try to help in any way that I can on that case . on border , under the Online Safety Act , if it be illegal here but be not happen here , it be still illegal . it do not matter where in the world it be happen . I call Liz Saville Roberts . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Dirprwy Lefarydd . I welcome the measure announce today . I also want to take the opportunity to pay tribute to Rhianon Bragg , who I understand the Minister have meet . she have be a tireless campaigner , in spite of extraordinary and horrific experience . I also pay tribute to the Suzy Lamplugh Trust and its work . I welcome what the Minister say about Cheshire constabulary ; I visit the unit there . specifically in Wales , for we to be able to establish multi - agency unit within police force , we will have to recognise that part of the membership , such as the psychologist , will be fund at a devolved level through health . can she assure I that that will be possible for the four force in Wales ? first of all , I must pay tribute to Rhianon . if Members of the House be not aware of her case , what she have be through be harrowing and she continue to campaign . we pay such tribute to all those who speak up to try to make thing well for other woman , even if in their case that ship have sail . that be an amazing thing . I want to assure the right hon . Lady that there should be nothing stop the same multi - agency situation happen in Wales any more than anywhere else where local health authority give out funding . we will never solve the issue of violence against woman and girl unless every part of Government , include at delegate , local level , take responsibility . that be certainly a postcode lottery at the moment . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her statement and for discuss the broad issue with hon . member in a Westminster Hall debate last week . woman and girl will have see from today and previous effort that they have a dedicated champion in the Minister . there have be several important announcement by the Government in recent day to tackle violence against woman and girl , which be obviously perpetrate mainly by man . can the Minister set out any further detail about how the Government be work across department to drive down those despicable crime and embed a culture of take action wherever we can ? I be mindful that sit here on the Front Bench with I now be the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) . she have frequently attend meeting alongside we in the Home Office to discuss how local authority and housing interact with the life of victim of domestic abuse and those flee other form of abuse and violence . Government Departments work together on this issue should no long just be about a piece of paper that get write . there have to be firm commitment , and it have to come from the very top . in the last urgent question today , we hear about a previous Prime Minister ' s commitment to tackle modern slavery , which lead to a world - lead change in that space . that be because it come from the centre . I can assure my hon . friend that , from the very centre of this Government , there be a desire to make sure that we get this into the mainstream of every Government Department — although I be struggle to make this about fish and fishery , but I will find a way . I welcome the proposal . I be talk to a constituent early today who feel that the family court be not only enable her ex - partner to continue abuse she , include follow and harass she , but be undermine the criminal case against her former partner . will the Minister commit to look at the role of the family court in case where the perpetrator be a former partner so that we can build on the proposal to well support people in those situation ? I thank the hon . member for her question . first , let I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , who be my equivalent in the Ministry of Justice , which lead on the family court . all I can say about the family court , which come up in the very first mission board with regard to violence against woman and girl , be that we will not solve the issue of domestic abuse or child abuse in our country — we will not go anywhere near to solve they — unless we look at those family court . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . in 2021 , a young woman be kill by her stalker in Derbyshire — I will not mention she by name in this House because , give the urgent nature of this statement , I have not have the opportunity to reach out to her family . it be find that she have report the stalker to the police . the inquest find a number of miss opportunity to take action against that person . be it be possible to have a means of capturing when thing have go wrong — in public body or in the police — and embed that as a means of drive improvement elsewhere ? furthermore , online provider and social medium company be fail in this space . will she use her weight to tell they to get their house in order , and if they do not , can we legislate for it ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I give he credit for the sensitivity that he show in deal with that case in his constituency . it be very important that we always seek the consent of a victim or a victim ' s family . that do not always happen in this place . on his first point , I be not sure about the case that he cite , but the I be happy to talk to he about it . in the case of a death of an intimate partner or a previous intimate partner , there would normally be a domestic homicide review , but that would not necessarily happen in the case of a murder by a stranger , where stalking be involve , although it could . this be about how we deal with the finding of a domestic homicide review or a serious case review . like many people , I be a bit sick of hear the word " lesson will be learn " over and again , and then find that the same lesson have to be learn by the same local area just three year later . how we use the finding of those review to change thing be definitely something that we will focus on . I will use all of my weight — however diminish it might be — to ensure that our online tech company be on board with the safeguarding that we require . for far too long , stalk victim have be let down by a fragmented and inadequate legal framework . the current system , which separate stalk into multiple offence , place an unbearable burden on victim to gather and present their own evidence to secure the harsh penalty under section 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 . this create the concept of a perfect victim — those force to meticulously prove the devastating toll that stalking have take on their life before justice be serve . although I be encourage by the review of stalk legislation that be be conduct , will the Minister confirm that this will also consider the pro and con of create a stand - alone stalk offence , which would help to ensure that victim be protect and that perpetrator be hold accountable without force victim to prove their worthiness of justice ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman . the thrust of the super - complaint be not dissimilar to what he suggest . he be absolutely right about the confusion between a 2A and 4A offence and the element of proof that a victim have to provide , often in front of the perpetrator , who can find it quite delicious to hear how awful thing have be for the victim . we will work with all the stalk organisation and the brilliant Victims ' Commissioner in London to make sure that , when we look at the legislation , those thing be all take into account . I welcome these tough new measure against stalker and the protection for victim . before I be elect to this place , I run domestic abuse service , so I must confess to feel a little irk by the shadow Minister , who try to sow seed of doubt about the Government ' s commitment to tackle violence against woman and girl , particularly as this new measure be be introduce in the House . I hope that it be a throwaway comment , rather than the start of a sustained campaign against the Government . I want to ask about the importance of bring together public body . we know that there must be an integration of criminal justice service , third sector organisation and support service . will the Minister outline how , at a local level , these measure will lead to the integration of those response ? I thank my hon . friend for the opportunity to once again say , " I be not sure where that have come from , " but I be always happy to dispel it — I love the idea that anybody could question our commitment , or certainly my commitment . not that I think the shadow Minister be do that . on the multi - agency statutory guidance , local area will have a duty to bear it in mind . some member here today have visit the amazing service in Cheshire . what we need to do be to show the absolute benefit of that approach to local area and to local health service provider specifically with regard to the psychological service that be require in the system . properly run multi - agency service in this space always make a difference . but , as somebody who have sit on many multi - agency service over the past 14 year , as my hon . friend have , I have see many partner leave the table as a result of the year of austerity . I call Tim Roca for the final question . I be glad to hear the good work of Cheshire police be commend in my area . may I also put on record my admiration for Nicola Thorp ? her terrifying ordeal at the hand of a man who have create 30 online account to stalk and abuse she should shock all of we . as we come to the end of the statement , may I ask the Minister to join I in pay tribute to she ? I would be absolutely delighted to do so . I consider Nicola to be my friend now , but the first time that I have ever hear of she be on the Petitions Committee in this House . it be my late , dear friend , Jo Cox , who have call I up to say , " we all have to come to work wear flat shoe , " not recognise that I always wear flat shoe . this be because Nicola have start a protest about be force , as a woman , to wear high heel in her temporary job . this be not Nicola ' s first endeavour in activism , and I be absolutely certain that it will not be she last . she inspire Jo Cox , who inspire many of we , and so I pay absolute tribute to she . election ( Proportional Representation ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to introduce a system of proportional representation for parliamentary election and for local government election in England ; and for connected purpose . we be experience an unprecedented political moment in this country . our most recent general election , in July this year , return a Government with the second big majority of seat of any government since the second world war , but on the low share of the vote ever record for a win party . the first - past - the - post voting system use in UK parliamentary election have deliver two third of the seat in the House of Commons to the Labour party , which attract just one third of the vote cast . thank to first past the post , nearly 60 % of people who vote in the general election in July be not represent in Parliament by the candidate that they vote for . this be the most disproportionate election result that this country have ever see . we be also see record level of disillusionment with the political process , with citizen become increasingly disengage . this be reflect in the fact that turnout in the 2024 general election be the second low since 1918 , at just under 60 % . over 40 % of register voter in the UK think so little of the political process that they do not think it worth express a preference for one candidate over another . there be many urgent and pressing challenge face the UK today , but it be essential that the vast majority of its citizen actively support the mechanism by which the decision be make to address they . increase level of disengagement threaten our ability to respond both to immediate challenge and to long - term issue . the Liberal Democrats believe — and have always believe — that a fair voting system be an essential bedrock of a function democracy . democracy have prove to be the most effective and endure governing system because it rely on a broad base of support across the population . a faulty voting system deliver a majority government on a minority vote undermine democracy and its ability to deliver effective government . that be why I be present this ten - minute rule Bill . in the face of grow worldwide threat to democratic government and institution , the UK need to urgently reassert the value of participative democracy as an essential component in peaceful and prosperous society . to do that , we need to respond to the democratic challenge that have emerge in our own country by adopt the provision in the Bill . will the hon . member give way ? with pleasure . order . I remind hon . member that intervention be not take during the ten - minute rule speech . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Bill would introduce a system of proportional representation for parliamentary election and local government election in England . liberal Democrats have be call for the introduction of a single transferable vote system whereby candidate on a ballot paper be rank accord to the voter ' s preference . that system would protect the critical local link between mps and their constituency , which be valuable in connect individual voter with the Parliament that make decision on their behalf . Constituency mp understand the specific issue that voter in their seat be experience and can connect they to the broad issue face the country . a system of STV would preserve that aspect of our current system , but would also ensure that mp enjoy the broad support of the majority of their elector . in the most recent general election , the number of mp elect to this Chamber with more than 50 % of the vote cast in their constituency be just 96 — a decrease from 421 in the 2019 election and 476 in the general election before that . ten of our colleague in this Parliament be elect with few than 30 % of the vote of their constituent who turn out . far few mp today can say they have the support of the majority of their constituent , or even a broad base of support , than ever before . proportional electoral system have be use successfully for election in the UK ' s devolve Parliaments and Assemblies since the turn of the century . one of the advantage of adopt STV for all local election in England , as well as general election , be that it be already in use in two of the four nation that make up the UK . now Welsh council also have the power to adopt stv if they wish , it may soon be three out of the four nation . proportional representation through an STV system be not alien to the UK ; million of people across the country be already familiar with voting in that way . the use of proportional system that retain a close constituency link across the UK make Westminster ' s use of first past the post the outlier rather than the norm . change the voting system for UK parliamentary election be not the only thing that need to be do to restore democratic engagement in this country . the shamble of the last Conservative Government create a crisis for democracy . thank to their cronyism , rule breaking , and sleaze scandal , public trust in Government be worryingly low . successive conservative Prime Ministers act without integrity and treat Parliament and the people with disdain . in the previous Parliament , the Conservatives weaken the independence of the Electoral Commission and introduce disproportionate voting system for mayoral election in England and the undemocratic voter identification scheme . the Liberal Democrats believe that public confidence in democracy be vital for effective and function government and that , consequently , we must take all possible step to rebuild public trust in politic . we will continue to call on the Government to scrap the voter ID scheme and will hold they to account for their conduct in office . but the most effective change we can make to clear up the mess the Conservatives leave be to change the voting system and ensure that the voice of voter across the British Isles can properly be hear . I be glad to know that support for electoral reform come from not only the liberal Democrat Benches but across the House . I be pleased that Labour Members in particular agree that we need proportional representation after vote overwhelmingly in favour of pr at their conference two year ago . more importantly , recent polling show that a majority of the british public be in favour of scrap first past the post and move to proportional representation . the all - party parliamentary group for fair election be launch last week with the support of over 100 mp . its report " free but not fair " highlight many of the structural issue that have lead to the decline of public trust in politic and engagement with election . we must take urgent action to protect democratic process and institution in the UK from threat here and abroad . we need to listen to the warning bell sound by the general election that the citizen we seek to serve , and who must abide by the law we pass , be become disenchant with the political process . if we want to continue to be a beacon of democracy across the world , we must ensure that it serve its purpose in give a voice to the people and deliver prosperity and stability . we can not do the latter if we fail to do the former . first past the post be a broken and unfair system . this summer , the Labour party win a landslide election victory , secure 63 % of seat in the House of Commons in return for just 34 % of the vote . the system leave million of voice unheard and create a divisive , adversarial political climate where collaboration be discourage and accountability be often sidestep . the Liberal Democrats have long champion proportional representation , advocate for a voting system where every vote truly count . we must modernise our electoral system , create a fair process to engage voter , listen to the need of our constituent and rebuild trust in politic . I support continue with the first - past - the - post system . when our constituent arrive at their polling station on 4 July , they know what to expect : if their choose candidate receive more vote than any other , that be who would be elect as their MP . there be elegance to this simplicity . in our democracy , the person who win the most vote in each of our 650 constituency win the seat . it can not be deny that voter would be confront with a far more complicated system if any type of proportional representation be to be introduce . crucially , after the election , every one of our constituent know who to turn to if they wish to contact their Member of Parliament . for I , that be the most important feature of our democratic system . in a more proportional system , such as the single transferable vote system advocate by some across the House , constituency would be represent by multiple member of Parliament from various party . clearly , that would polarise our community , and voter might contact only the MP they have vote for , which would absolve we of our duty to represent all our constituent . it would be far too difficult for voter to get to know the several politician represent their area , and to hold they to account at the next general election . constituent struggle with complex issue may already have exhaust other option . we do not want to make they ask which MP they should contact as well . first past the post create a strong connection , for good or bad , between resident and their representative . under our current system , I can represent my home of Broxbourne . every one of my neighbour — whether they have an issue with their housing , their pension or anything else — know who to turn to . there be a clear link that would simply be lose under a more proportional system . have a sole representative for a small constituency allow each of we in this place to remain grounded , and ensure that every corner of our United Kingdom be properly represent . there be also a simplicity and stability in the result that emerge from our first - past - the - post general election . for the most part , first past the post produce government with clear workable majority that can last the full length of their term . voter want strong government who can deliver the policy in their manifesto , not the chaos of constant disagreement and repeat election . under proportional representation , the party that receive the most vote do not automatically or quickly form the next government . instead , as we be see now in Ireland , political party go behind locked door to do deal among themselves . discussion last for month after the general election have take place — that be plainly undemocratic — and voter be give no far say . when a coalition agreement eventually come , it satisfy no one . under the first - past - the - post system , each party present its policy to the british people at the general election . that be the basis on which vote be cast in our general election . in first - past - the - post election , it be clear who will be in power and who will be in opposition . as we see in the recent general election , it be possible for voter to change who govern they if that be the choice they wish to make . finally , I remind the House that the british people have make clear their opposition to proportional representation . in 2011 , 13 million people vote to remain — sorry , to retain . [ interruption . ] it be less people than vote for that . in 2011 , 13 million people vote to retain the first - past - the - post system , and at the last general election neither of the large two party propose a change in the electoral system . for those reason , I think it would plainly be wrong to make any change to election in the United Kingdom . question put ( Standing Order no . 23 ) . Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Josh Babarinde Richard Baker Lee Barron Lorraine Beavers Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Tom Collins Victoria Collins Andrew Cooper Daisy Cooper Stella Creasy Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Florence Eshalomi Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Allison Gardner Andrew George Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Sarah Hall Monica Harding Tom Hayes Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Adam Jogee Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake Clive Lewis James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew John Martin McDonnell James McMurdock Frank McNally Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Samantha Niblett Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Manuela Perteghella Jo Platt Peter Prinsley Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Tim Roca Ian Roome Sarah Russell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter Lisa Smart Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Matt Turmaine Caroline Voaden Michelle Welsh Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Claire Young Tom Morrison Jamie Stone Jack Abbott Stuart Anderson Edward Argar Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Gareth Bacon David Baines Harriett Baldwin Alex Barros - Curtis Peter Bedford Matt Bishop Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Sureena Brackenridge Aphra Brandreth Maureen Burke Nesil Caliskan Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Lewis cock Jacob Collier Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Shaun davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Helena Dollimore Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Neil Duncan - Jordan Alex Easton Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Luke Evans Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Daniel Francis George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Allison Gardner Gill german John Glen Mary Glindon John Grady Helen Grant Rebecca Harris John Hayes Mark Hendrick Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Danny Kruger Katie Lam Peter Lamb John Lamont Edward Leigh Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Douglas McAllister Siobhain McDonagh Lola McEvoy Anneliese Midgley Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane Andrew Murrison Connor Naismith Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp David Pinto - Duschinsky Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Tom Rutland Baggy Shanker Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Nick Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Kirsteen Sullivan Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mike Tapp Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Bradley Thomas Fred Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Michael Wheeler John Whittingdale James Wild David Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Julian Lewis Blake Stephenson the House divide : Ayes 138 , Noes 136 . question accordingly agree to . order , that Sarah Olney , Wendy Chamberlain , David Chadwick , Sorcha Eastwood , Marie Goldman , Richard Foord , Tim Farron , Ed Davey , Christine Jardine , Dr Al Pinkerton and Daisy Cooper present the Bill . Sarah Olney accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 138 ) . National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Mel Stride have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . in her Budget statement on 30 October , the Chancellor set out the difficult decision that we as a Government have be prepare to make on welfare , spending and tax . those decision be not just difficult but necessary , give the fiscal irresponsibility and economic mismanagement that have become hallmark of the previous Government . we inherit a mess , so those decision be need to fix the public finance , fund the NHS and other public service and deliver economic stability . we have be determine to take those decision while protect work people . that be why our Budget make no change to income tax , the rate of vat , or the amount of national insurance that work people pay . as a result of our Budget , people will not see a penny more tax on their payslip . be the Minister seriously suggest that , with the good brain in the Treasury on hand , he do not understand that it be a moot point whether someone have a high national insurance contribution in their payslip , or whether their wage be suppress and the job that they be go for be not there anymore , because the employer can not afford to increase their payroll due to this national insurance increase ? we recognise that we be ask business to contribute more , and that this will have impact , but it will be up to individual business to decide how to respond to these change . the one thing that we know for certain be that if we have choose a different path — if we have follow the previous Government and increase income tax or national insurance — that would have lead to a tax on people ' s payslip . it would have lead to the amount of money in people ' s pocket go down , which would have break our manifesto promise . I apologise for intervene so early in the debate , but a number of my small business , charity and voluntary sector organisation have raise concern and ask for clarity . can the Minister outline what safety net and other measure for support be available to small business , charity and voluntary sector organisation ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I will get to the detail of the Bill in a moment , but I can briefly reassure he that the Bill double the employment allowance , which will go from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 . that mean that small business and charity be protect ; they can employ up to four people on the national living wage without pay a penny in national insurance . in the context of the tough decision that we have to take in this Bill , that be important protection for small business and charity . do the hon . Gentleman not accept that in the UK , the definition of a small business be one that employ few than 50 employee and have an annual turnover of less than £ 10 million ? thank to his change and political choice , thousand of small business across the country will face the decision of whether to keep staff on or lie they off . we know that the tough decision that we have have to take will have impact — we have be up front with people about that — but we also know that over half of all employer will pay no more or less national insurance than they do before . we acknowledge that this decision will have an impact , but we believe that it be the right decision . I will explain why that be . it be clear that the Government be work hard to get this right , but may I press the Minister on the point about the employment allowance ? what he say about double the threshold be welcome , particularly when it come to childcare provision , and we all want an expansion of childcare place . he will be aware that the employment allowance double that he be talk about will apply to state - provide childcare place , but not to private and co - operative nursery . some 85 % of place be in private and co - operative nursery , so will he look at extend the employment allowance that he be give to state nursery to private and co - operative nursery , so we can support the expansion of childcare ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , but eligibility for the employment allowance be not change . it be the same as it be before , and we be maintain that provision . on protect small business and charity , the crucial thing for we be the doubling of the employment allowance . in individual case , I would recommend that organisation get the right advice , but the eligibility criterion for the employment allowance will not change as a result of the Bill . will the Minister give way ? I will , one more time , and then I will make progress . be not the fact of the matter , despite what the Chancellor have say , that business have be abandon ? there be no safety net for they . to use the word of the Chancellor , " what we have do with the increase in employer national insurance be leave it to the business to work out " . business be bear the brunt of this , and it be really too bad . as far as the Chancellor be concern , they will have to grin and bear it . I be sorry , but there be tough decision that we have to take , and there be difficult decision that business will have to take . the only people to have abandon business be the Conservatives when they be in government . they abandon any pretence of economic stability , fiscal responsibility , and support business to invest and grow . that be the difference between the Opposition and the Government . rise — I will make some progress , and take more intervention shortly . for I , keep the promise on income tax , employee national insurance and vat be crucial , but make those decision and need to get our country back on track have mean that other tough decision in the tax system have be necessary . that be why , at the Budget , we take the decision to increase national insurance contribution from employer , while , as I mention to my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , increase protection for small business and charity . it be those measure that the Bill seek to introduce . I will set out the detail of how the Bill seek to achieve that . first , it increase the main rate of employer secondary class 1 national insurance contribution from 13 . 8 % to 15 % . it decrease the secondary threshold for employer — the threshold above which employer begin to pay employer national insurance contribution on their employee ' salary — from £ 9 , 100 to £ 5 , 000 . at the same time , as I have mention to hon . member , the Bill increase the protection for small business by more than double the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 . that increase in the employment allowance , alongside the removal of the £ 100 , 000 eligibility threshold , mean that all eligible business will be able to employ four full - time worker on the national living wage without pay any national insurance contribution . be the Minister aware of the complete disaster this will cause for scottish hospitality business ? we do not have business rate relief , as business do in England Wales . we have a very large number of young people in the hospitality sector . for example , for someone work part - time for 25 hour a week on the minimum wage , their salary be £ 15 , 912 , and the national insurance have just go up by 74 % . this be wipe out the hospitality industry in Scotland . I recognise that the decision we be take will have impact , and in some case it will mean that employer have to take difficult decision . we be , however , reform business rate to help retail , hospitality and leisure on the high street , so I would suggest that the hon . Member speak to the Scottish Government about their do something to support business in the same way ; I can not speak on their behalf . take together , the measure , should the Bill pass , will mean that 865 , 000 employer pay no national insurance at all next year , with over 1 million — more than a half of all employer — pay the same or less than they do previously . I have be clear , however , that I recognise that there will be impact on some employer as a result of the change . while many small business and charity will be protect through the employment allowance increase , other will have to contribute more . the Minister talk about protect business or charity , but hospice , for example , employ many more than four people . I can not think of one hospice that do not employ more than four people . how will they be protect ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . that will depend on the exact set - up of the hospice , but typically hospice be independent charity , so they will be able to use the employment allowance against their national insurance contribution liability . they will also be able to access the other tax relief in the system that benefit charity , such as business tax relief and gift aid relief , which we have maintain in the Budget . we have take the decision to maintain — rise — rise — member will have to wait a second so that I can answer this question . we will maintain the charitable relief in the system , such as business tax relief and gift aid relief . however , it be important to recognise that the decision we have take overall mean that over half of all employer will not pay any more or will pay the same national insurance as they do before . their national insurance bill will be the same or less than it would have be otherwise . many of we in this House appreciate the work that my hon . friend ' s team be do to unpick the mess we inherit , but one thing that have be point out be the need for well target . I have be talk to social enterprise and small business in my constituency . social enterprise often do thing that charity may do , but be consider as small business , although they do not get the same tax relief as charity . they also provide critical service in my constituency and in constituency around the country . be there not a well way to target micro - business and social enterprise to enable they to well manage what be quite a tough budget for some of they ? we recognise that tough decision have to be take throughout this Budget , but that be exactly why we have balance the difficult decision on the rate of national insurance and the decrease in the secondary threshold with the increase of the employment allowance , which help small business and charity . there be no way that we can get through the measure announce in the Budget , and say that there will not be any difficult decision for organisation or business to have to take . we be be up front about this . it be a tough decision for the Government to have to take , and it will mean that business must take difficult decision as well . however , it be essential that we do this to fix the public finance , get our public service back on their foot and restore the economic stability that be squander by the conservative party . how do it help morale and positivity among small business , which will be vital to economic growth , if some of they be go to see their salary bill double ? an employer in my constituency — not quite a small business , but a medium - sized business — be face crippling increase in the salary bill . how will it help growth if those company go to the wall and we lose job ? the hon . Member focus on the national insurance contribution change , which be rightly the focus of this Bill , but I urge she to look at that in the context of everything else the Government be do , not least the employment allowance double that I have mention . there be also our decision to freeze the small business rate multiplier as it apply in England , our decision to introduce permanently low retail hospitality and leisure rate for business on the high street in 2026 - 27 , and the decision in our corporation tax road map to maintain the small profit rate and other allowance from which small business can benefit . I urge she to understand that what we be do on national insurance be take a tough decision to fix the public finance , while at the same time provide the stability that business need to invest and grow , and that be the way to move our country forward . do the Minister agree that many people who want to work have struggle to do so because of poor health ? they be unable to get access to a doctor , a hospital appointment or a dentist appointment — to a whole range of appointment — and as a consequence they have be force out of work when they want to be in work , earn a living and get dignity from work . with the change that the Government be bring forward , we will see investment in our NHS and our public service that will help people to get the appointment they need to return to work . do he agree that this investment be much need and a good thing for our economy ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and he be right . he point out why we be take these difficult decision , and why it be so important to fund public service and fix the public finance . healthy business need a healthy nhs , healthy business need a healthy workforce and healthy business need public service to be function so that they can maintain their investment and grow the economy . I be sure that my hon . friend , and other member , will have see the Government ' s " get Britain work " White Paper , which set out the barrier that ill health put in the way of people be economically active . we be determined to challenge that and to help people who be able to get back into , and stay in , work . that will be a mission of this Government . rise — I will make a bit of progress ; I have be generous in give way . the choice that we have take be difficult ; it be not one that we have take lightly . as I have fully acknowledge in the Chamber , the impact of this measure will be feel beyond business , as the Office for Budget Responsibility have acknowledge . let I put the decision in context and say what we could have do instead . we could have reverse the previous Government ' s cut to employee national insurance . those cut be simply not honest because they be base on a forecast that the OBR say would have be " materially different " if the true extent of the last government ' s cover - up have be know . we make a commitment to not increase the taxis that work people pay , and we have deliver on that promise and make a different choice . rise — I will give way ; I be be too generous I think . the manifesto say that Labour would not increase rate of national insurance contribution . the Minister be perfectly entitle to use the argument , " we never realise that it be this bad , so we have have to change what we say we would do " , but to pretend that Labour have not resile on its manifesto promise be pure sophistry . in fact , it be both thing : it be true that we have keep to our manifesto pledge of protect work people by not increase income tax , the national insurance that work people pay or vat ; at the same time , the situation be far bad than we think it would be when we win the general election , with the £ 22 billion black hole and the fact that the OBR say that its forecast would have be " materially different " in March , have it know the true extent of the previous Government ' s cover - up . those be fact that the OBR put out there and from which we can not hide . I believe the Minister be mislead the House — [ interruption . ] inadvertently . the OBR do not say the word " cover - up " so will he correct the record ? I say that the OBR say that its forecast would have be " materially different " have it know what the previous Government do not share with it at the time of its March forecast . I have be absolutely clear , and I suggest that the hon . Gentleman read the OBR forecast as it might be illuminate — rise — no , I will not give way again . it might be illuminate for he to read the OBR forecast and understand what it say about the previous Government ' s relationship with it , how much information be not share , and how that impact on its forecast go into the election . rise — I will make some progress as I want to explain why we be take this tough decision , and why it be so important that we take this decision now , as set out by the Chancellor in the Budget . revenue raise by measure in the Bill will play a critical role in enable the Government to fix the public finance , restore economic stability in a fiscally responsible way , and get the NHS back on its foot . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress . we know how crucial economic stability be for business take investment decision , and as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , we know how crucial it be for business to have a healthy nhs . as a result of measure in the Bill , as well as wide measure announce in the Budget , the NHS will receive an extra £ 22 . 6 billion increase in resource spending to deliver 40 , 000 extra elective appointment a week . that be urgently need to get the NHS back on its foot . the increase in funding will be do within our tough fiscal rule — new rule that will bring an end to borrow for day - to - day spending , something that the previous Government never achieve or even aim for . the hon . Gentleman refer to the NHS , and I believe the NHS and hospital trust will receive an exemption to the increase in national insurance contribution . give his clear passion for the NHS , will he look again at the impact that his rise in national insurance contribution will have on air ambulance ? under the current proposal air ambulance , like hospice , will face a huge increase in their cost . the way that we be approach the reimbursement of employer national insurance cost for Departments and public sector employee be similar to what the previous Government do with the health and social care levy . it mean that money go to Departments , local government , and public sector employee directly to help compensate for the increase in employer national insurance . for other people who be pay employer national insurance , if they have a contract with the public sector they be treat as contractor or private organisation . if they have concern about their cost base they should talk to their sponsor Department , the NHS , or whoever they have a contract with , so that those consideration can be take into account in the round . it be the same for adult social care , and it be the same for other organisation that be fund through the public sector . let I pick up on the point about local authority and public service . I press the Minister on that this morning during Treasury question , and I fear he do not give I a clear answer . Richmond council , my local authority , deliver child ' s service through an arm ' s length body call achieve for child . as a result of these measure , with all the employee who deliver service for vulnerable child in Richmond upon Thames , it face a bill of £ 588 , 000 in employer ' s national insurance . will the Minister assure local authority up and down the country that operate similar model for deliver service that these arm ' s length body will be exempt from the national insurance rise ? otherwise he will be damage the very public service that he claim to be invest in today . we be protect public service by provide relief directly to Departments and other public sector employer . third party , private organisation , or those who have a contract with the public sector be deal with differently and they should approach their local council , or whoever be sponsor they , to talk about their funding arrangement . I might draw the hon . Lady ' s attention to the fact that local government financing be increase by 3 . 2 % next year as a result of decision that this Government have take . I expect she would probably support that increase in funding , but sadly she do not have the gut to support what we need to do to raise the money in the first place . on the £ 22 . 6 billion for the NHS , or the figure just mention for local government , have the Minister or his official calculate what the number would be , net of the national insurance cost ? those body — the national health service and local government — carry on with exactly the same service as before , but now face extra bill for national insurance contribution . have they do the math ? in the statistic put out by the Government at the time of the Budget , a specific amount be earmark directly for Departments and public sector employer . that amount be effectively net off against the amount that will be available for net spending in public service . for other organisation , such as third party that contract with the NHS , there should be a conversation between the person under the contract and the contracting organisation to consider pressure in the round . as I say , this be in the context of , for example , the local government budget go up by 3 . 2 % next year , and a huge amount of extra investment in the NHS , with £ 600 million go to local authority in England to help deal with social care pressure . that be the context of the decision that we have to take and pressure in the round . I thank the Minister for give way again . what about GP surgery ? gp funding for 2025 - 26 will be confirm by the Department for Health and Social Care in the usual way as part of the gp contracting process , and it will consider all the pressure on GPs in the round . I will make some progress , because the point we have make be clear . it be important for I to look also at what the opposition might do , give the important vote today on these tax change , which be necessary to raise funding for the NHS and other public service . I would like to think that the opposition might join we today , back our plan to provide extra funding for the NHS and support this bill to help pay for it . it seem though , from an article in the Sunday Times in the name of the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , that that may not be the case . in that piece , he write that the Conservatives apparently " want to provide further funding for the NHS . " sadly , they refuse to take the tough decision to pay for it . I note that in that article , the shadow Chancellor rehash the discredit pledge from the recent conservative manifesto to make £ 12 billion of welfare saving , which the Institute for Fiscal Studies politely describe at the time as be " difficult in the extreme . " perhaps he miss the admission from his predecessor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , during the election campaign that those welfare cut be in fact not new , and the money have already be spend . either way , it be hard to fathom why the new shadow Chancellor would rest his first intervention on a pledge from a manifesto that lead to his party lose nearly 250 seat . it only serve to underscore the fact that the Conservatives be get far and far away from be a credible opposition by the day . we recognise that the decision to increase employer ' s national insurance will have impact . although measure in this Bill will help to protect small business and charity , other measure mean that large business and organisation will have difficult decision to take . let I be clear , however : the Budget be a one - off and a once - in - a - generation event . the difficult decision we take mean that we be able to wipe the slate clean of the previous Government ' s fiscal irresponsibility and economic mismanagement . public service now need to live within their mean and the mean we have set they for the rest of this Parliament . the Budget deliver stability and fiscal responsibility , mean that our focus can now be resolutely on boost investment and grow the economy . that fiscal responsibility be possible only when we take tough decision . this Bill make it clear that this Government will not shy away from tough decision and that we will do what be right in the circumstance we face . I commend it to the House . I beg to move , that this House decline to give a second reading to the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill because it break the manifesto commitment of the Labour Party not to increase National Insurance ; and will lead to low growth , low wage for work people , few job and the closure of business . today we turn to the late chapter in this Government ' s book of economic incompetence , which be their choice to increase employer ' national insurance contribution — labour ' s job tax on worker across the UK . today ' s measure be the major reason that the public ' s immediate reaction to the Budget be negative , with YouGov polling the day after the Budget show that nearly twice as many people think it would leave the UK bad off than think it would be well off . when it come to judge each of the many measure in the Budget in turn , today ' s proposal to increase national insurance be rate the second bad decision of all in the Budget , just behind hike bus fare by 50 % . back in October , 47 % of the public thought Labour ' s job tax be the wrong thing to do , but as employer have spell out the impact of Labour ' s job tax , the public ' s view have sour far . in polling last Monday , those say that this measure be wrong have increase from 47 % to 57 % . the public know that the Labour Chancellor have get this choice wrong . the shadow Minister be an astute man , and he have pick up on some of the index of concern . one of those be the economic confidence index , which in October be - 52 . in November , it be - 65 . that be the second low figure on record since the pandemic in 2020 . if we have an eminent economist run the Treasury , they would be able to see that this be a bad idea for business and the country . obviously it would be useful to have people with business experience in the Cabinet , if they be go to levy taxis on business . sadly , the Government do not have that . my hon . friend ' s point about business confidence and the reaction from business go to what the Minister be try to say in his summing up about what the conservative party would do . the way we raise more taxis be by enhance business confidence , so that they invest , grow and make profit that can be tax . this Budget have do precisely the opposite . each and every day since the Budget , confidence in the financial competence of this Labour Government have be ebb away . Less than one in four of the public now believe that this government be handle the economy well . the hon . Gentleman appear keen on polling . can he talk we through the polling for Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng ' s Budget ? to be fair , my former colleague do not last quite as long as the lettuce , and the public make their judgment clear on that and many other issue at the general election . the hon . Gentleman ' s point be fair , but it be not particularly relevant to the decision he will be ask to vote on today . hospice in his constituency will know how he vote . GPs in his constituency will know how he vote . charity in his constituency will know how he vote . I will be interested to see whether he vote with his conscience or with the party line . Less than one in four of the public now believe that the Government be handle the economy well . it be not just the public who have lose faith in the economic competence of his Majesty ' s Treasury ; it be the Prime Minister himself , who apparently on Thursday will ditch the ambition for the United Kingdom to be the fast - grow economy in the G7 , remove at a stroke one of the key plank of labour ' s economic plan . the Bill will add to that lack of faith in this Labour Government , because this measure to raise national insurance contribution directly contradict labour ' s election promise not to increase taxis on work people . in the election campaign , the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the entire Labour Treasury team , include the Minister , repeat the phrase from their manifesto , which state : " labour will not increase taxis on work people , which be why we will not increase National Insurance , the basic , high , or additional rate of Income Tax , or vat . " yet today , with the election behind they , increase taxis on work people be exactly what Labour be propose to do . the shadow Minister be shake his head . you ' re the shadow Minister . I be terribly sorry — the Minister . he shake his head and say that it be not true . let I turn to one of his favourite independent economic group , the Resolution Foundation , whose analyst James Smith say , " even if it " — the employer national insurance change — " doesn ' t show up in pay packet from day one , it will eventually feed through to low wage … this be definitely be a tax on work people , let ' s be very clear about that . " it be a little wearisome to listen to the opposition talk about taxis on work people . we have the high income taxis since world war two because they do not increase the threshold , and in 2011 vat go up to 20 % , which be a massive tax on work people . I would like to hear what the shadow Minister have to say about that . the hon . Gentleman talk about the conservative record . shall I talk to he about our record on national insurance ? in 2010 , when Labour be last in office , it break the economy and leave a note say that there be no money leave . we do have to increase national insurance rate — but not by as much as be propose today . thereafter , we increase national insurance threshold with inflation ; these proposal do not do that . we introduce the employment allowance , which admittedly the Government be increase . we then introduce national insurance relief for young worker . we increase national insurance income threshold in 2022 , 2023 and 2024 . that be the conservative record . we do not believe in the job tax : we do not think it help growth , and we do not think that it will increase taxation . rise — I will make a bit more progress and then give way to my right hon . friend . if the Minister do not like the Resolution Foundation ' s judgment on this tax , he should just listen to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , which say : " simple economic theory suggest that the incidence of employer nic and employee nic should be the same , at least in the long run . it be likely that the long - run incidence of both employer and employee NICs be predominantly on employee " . the measure in the Bill represent by far the large part of the tax grab in the October Budget . the Treasury Red Book assess that these measure will raise £ 23 . 7 billion in the next financial year , rise to £ 25 . 7 billion , but the Minister know that behavioural change mean that they will actually raise substantially less ; the IFS estimate about £ 16 billion . I note that in the Red Book there be three opportunity for this job tax to be refer to as " deliver on our promise " . there be : " deliver on our promise — New Policy to close the Tax Gap " , " deliver on our promise — collect Tax that be due " and even the catch - all : " deliver on our promise — other Manifesto Tax Commitments " , but the increase in national insurance contribution can not be include in any of those , because labour politician hide their intention from the british voter at the election . the hon . Gentleman refer to the history of the Tory party on national insurance . can he tell we why he and his party vote for the health and social care levy , which put up national insurance for employee not so long ago ? that be a very odd question when the Minister himself have say that the objective today be to provide more money for the health service . I guess I will think about what the hon . Gentleman have ask . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will be very happy to give way , but I will make some progress first . if we take the Government at their word that their intention be to raise fund for public service , this measure be an inefficient way to do so . under the provision of the 1992 act on social security provision , only a proportion of the money raise by this form of taxation will be allocate to public service ; the vast majority be essentially hypothecate to the national insurance fund . will the Minister tell we what proportion of the money raise by the Bill will actually be allocate to the national health service ? will he also advise we of why the Chancellor choose this particular tax , which , uniquely , will burden the economy with far more in taxis levy than will actually end up go to support public service ? employer large and small across the United Kingdom have be plead with the Government to reverse this measure , let they know about the impact it will have on job and on wage ; the particularly harsh impact it will have on female worker and on young people start out in their career ; the vulnerability of our hard - press hospitality business and high street retailer ; or the pre - Christmas plea of our charity , hospice and GPs about the way their contribution to public service have be completely ignore . have the Minister be listen to the voice of people who actually have experience of run a business , create job or deliver public service , who be tell he about the negative impact the Bill will have on job and pay , and even on their own viability , or have he be turn a deaf ear ? be it not the big slap in the face for people listen to this that when Labour use " work people " , it can not define that term ? pub landlord and people work in charity be by definition work people — they be of work age and earn a living — and they will now be hit by this tax , which will have such a detrimental impact on their livelihood . be that not a disgrace ? I have be listen to question from member who believe that this be " not a tax on work people " ask for exemption from it . when we hear that these taxis be be levy on hospice , charity , GPs and small business , we can not help but believe that Labour think that people work only when they work for the Government . the truth of the matter be that work people work in many institution across the country — in small business , large business and in the third sector — as well as for the Government . this government be tax work people . I think sometimes , listen to the opposition , it be as if that money go into a complete black hole . those billion be not just go to go into public service like health , education and social housing ; we be also put that money into people ' s pocket — into the pocket of nurse , doctor , engineer and builder — who will then spend their money in those business . it be call the multipli effect . that money will go back into our economy , rebuild our public service , which the Conservatives destroy , and go into the pocket of people through the economy . what ' s not to like ? the hon . Gentleman ask , " what ' s not to like ? " , but just a few minute ago he be say what he do not like in the Bill . he say he want exemption that the Minister be not prepared to give he ; I think his dispute be not with I , but with his hon . friend on the Front Bench . the British Retail Consortium — another section of the economy — write to the Chancellor detail the cost of the measure to retailer : £ 0 . 57 billion from the rate increase and £ 1 . 76 billion for the reduction in the national insurance contribution threshold . it spell out the consequence : " for any retailer , large or small , it will not be possible to absorb such significant cost increase over such a short timetable . the effect will be to increase inflation , slow pay growth , cause shop closure , and reduce job , especially at the entry level . this will impact high street and customer right across the country . I would just like the hon . gentleman to apologise for the fact that all the thing he have just outline be the impact of his Government ' s kamikaze Budget in 2022 . since the hon . Lady be review history , she should look at the Bank of England review by Bernanke , commission under the last government , which look at the impact on interest rate in the UK compare with other country and include that period . she will see that the real impact of those change on interest rate be no different from any other year . the UK stay in exactly the same place every year . there be a difference between fact and reality and what the Labour party think be history . will the hon . member give way ? no , I be draw my speech to a close , because plenty of people wish to speak . ukhospitality be also concerned . it estimate that our pub , club , hotel and restaurant will have to stump up £ 1 billion more because of the Bill . it point out that for a typical staff member age 21 or over earn the national living wage and work 38 hour a week , the job tax will increase by 53 . 9 % , from £ 1 , 863 to £ 2 , 869 . do the Minister honestly think that that will not mean job cut in the hospitality sector ? the Government claim to have shield the public sector from the job tax , but the reality be murky . many of our GPs will have to stump up more money , and our hospice and charity will have to find more money . as we approach the Christmas season , will the Minister give some hope to our charity , voluntary group , GPs and hospice , and say that they , too , will be exempt from Labour ' s job tax ? the Labour party in government be stumble badly . I know from my own experience that no amount of reset will inspire confidence , and certainly not when a Prime Minister be force into a reset within five month of take office . the Labour party in government be also get a reputation for a series of cruel policy motivate by socialism base on hate . the removal of winter fuel payment for the elderly be cruel . the family farm tax , penalise british farmer who have toil in our field for generation , be cruel . today ' s job tax , attack business , charity , GPs , hospice and employment opportunity and growth be cruel , too . I urge all member of this House to support our amendment . for too long , this country have suffer from irresponsible and short - sighted fiscal management from conservative , saddle work people with the bill for their broken promise , incompetence and chaotic approach to governing . they hike taxis for work people to record rate and leave behind a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . then , to add insult to injury , the Conservatives spend their first few month in opposition wash their hand of 14 year of failure in power . that change on 30 October when my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer give a historic Budget , which lead to this Bill . the Budget deliver the swift action need to repair the immediate fiscal crisis and a long - term plan to repair our public finance , while also lay the foundation for a decade of national renewal . we hear a lot from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , and no doubt we will hear much from Opposition Members , about the Bill . but really , the gist of their argument be that they want all the benefit of the Budget , but have no idea how to pay for it . Boris Johnson may no long be the leader of the Conservative party , but his belief in cakeism live on . on cake , they be pro have it and pro eat it . the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) attempt at first to wean the party off its cakeism addiction . run in the first leadership context , he tell his party not to believe in " comfort fairytale that might make we feel well in the moment , but will leave our child bad off tomorrow " . but under his leadership , the Conservatives once again succumb to the fairytale of cakeism . that be why they lose the general election . the hon . member for North Bedfordshire speak of poll , but he will remember that they lose an election just a few month ago because they could no long handle the challenge of the world as it be . they duck the hard choice and , in opposition , they continue to duck they and to drift away from reality . back in the real world , let I remind the House what this government be deliver , fund in large part by the Bill . they be deliver £ 25 . 6 billion in increase NHS funding , ensure that our health service can meet rise demand and create 40 , 000 more elective appointment every week . they be deliver more teacher , and invest £ 1 billion in special educational need provision . they be invest billion in surgical hub and diagnostic scanner . there be a furth £ 1 . 5 billion to rebuild crumble school and ensure that every child learn in a safe environment . those be investment that Conservative Members must surely support . do the hon . Gentleman not agree that the impact of this measure be hit the most vulnerable business and the most vulnerable charity throughout the United Kingdom ? surely a much well way of raise the money — which I can understand be need — would be to raise corporation tax , or to increase taxis on , for instance , social medium or the very large company . the Bill , and the Budget , protect the small business , as the Minister have already explain . it be disappointing to hear the hon . member share the conservative party ' s cakeism . opposition Members must surely support the investment that the Bill will deliver , but if they oppose the Bill , how do they propose to fund they ? turn up at the supermarket with a long shopping list but no mean to pay do not work in real life , and it do not work in government either . the Conservatives have clearly learn nothing from their kamikaze mini - Budget of 2022 . perhaps they believe that cakeism have just not be try properly . this Government , by contrast , have take the tough but fair decision to protect work people , invest in our NHS and rebuild our public service . for too long the burden of tax have fall on work people , but under this Government , large business and the rich will pay a little more in tax to help fund the NHS and other public service on which work people rely . where the Conservatives would either cut public service or pick the pocket of work people , this Government be ask those with the broad shoulder to pay a bit more to help repair our broken public service — break over the last 14 year . this Bill will help to deliver on the priority of my constituent in Basingstoke , who will be able to see a doctor when they need one , and school will be able to deliver the good — will the hon . member reassure the GPs in my constituency , in Harston , Comberton , the Eversdens , Melbourn and Queen Edith ' s , who have seek reassurance that the Government do not intend to threaten the viability of thousand of NHS general practice through these charge ? I be not sure that it be for I to give reassurance — it be probably for minister to do that — but what I can do be repeat what the Minister say early : the Government will bring forward the settlement for GPs in the usual way . part of the big problem that I have with the way this be be do , look at the NHS as a whole , be that while at the front door of primary care the raising of national insurance contribution mean that GPs do not want to recruit , at the back door social care be also be hit by the increase . it be all very well protect the centre — the hospital — but the big problem be system - wide , in that both the back door and the front door be jam shut . how will the Bill resolve that ? this be the practicality that the Labour party must explain to the health service , because they be ask the same question and it be go unanswered . both the back door and the front door of the NHS have be break over the last 14 year , so we will take no lecture from the Conservatives about the state of the NHS or the impact of policy . the protection of small business be also build into the Bill . the increase in the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 — as the Minister say — and the expansion to all employer mean that 250 , 000 employer will pay less national insurance , and that 820 , 000 employer will see no difference in their national insurance bill . that will ensure that these change fall only on the business with the broad shoulder . this Government continue to champion entrepreneurship and wealth creation , boost public investment by more than £ 100 billion over this Parliament . my constituency have a high proportion of business owner , entrepreneur , and high - growth enterprise and start - up than many other . one of they write to I this week to say that they will cut their operation , and that the Budget have crash any incentive or possibility for business to grow . do the hon . Member agree that this Bill do not protect business or the worker they employ , and do not leave any hope for economic growth ? I take it that the hon . Lady must oppose the large investment in public service that the Government be propose , and that she oppose the Government ' s industrial strategy , which be one of the way we will grow the economy . I remind Opposition Members that worker in small and large business depend on the NHS . as other have already say , many worker have continue to be out of work , which have a massive impact on our productivity . we should make no apology for invest in our public service . the hon . Gentleman keep accuse those of we on the liberal Democrat Benches of not support public sector investment . we have champion it , and we have say that the big multinational — the big bank and the social medium giant — should bear the brunt . just yesterday , at the Small Business 100 reception here in Parliament , the owner of Shambles , a popular family - run restaurant in Teddington , tell I that the impact of the Budget on they next year will cost £ 50 , 000 to £ 60 , 000 . what be they do ? they be freeze all recruitment for the next few month . how will that deliver the growth that the Labour party be apparently desperate to achieve ? as I have already say , we be protect small business through this Bill and we have an industrial strategy . we be deliver record level of public investment in the economy , and I doubt very much that the measure that the hon . Lady set out would deliver the kind of funding that this Bill will deliver . we need serious investment to fix the mess leave by the previous Government . we be provide business with certainty through a corporate tax road map , as other have say , and uphold our commitment to maintain corporation tax at the low rate in the G7 . I be proud to support the investment in our country , in our NHS , in education and in rebuild the infrastructure on which hard - work people across our country rely . we be bring the funding need to kick - start a decade of national renewal . while the Conservatives sit back to have their cake and eat it , this Government have act decisively to invest strategically and build for the future . rise — order . member will be able to see that a significant number of people wish to contribute to this debate . a time limit of six minute will be impose after we hear from the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this Saturday be Small Business Saturday . it be an opportunity for every single one of we to celebrate the fantastic small business in our constituency — business that be the engine of our economy and the backbone of our community . we know that behind every single business there be a story . either it be a family business that have pass through the generation and evolve , or it be a start - up that be somebody ' s life ' s dream , but behind every story there be blood , sweat , tear and hard work . this Saturday , as we all go around our constituency meet and greet small business owner , we only need to scratch the surface of even the most successful business to know that they be very worried about the impact of the Budget , particularly the rise in employer ' s national insurance contribution . we have hear from many of they already , and we know what the impact will be : they will suppress wage , freeze recruitment and , in the bad case , shut up shop . rightly , the Government keep talk about growth . we all want economic growth , but this particular tax will undermine growth , not unleash it . we have all hear from GPs , dentist , hospice , social care provider , charity that be commission to provide health and care , and public health programme . they be all incredibly worried . none of they have be give a guarantee that the money be take away with one hand through the rise in employer ' s national insurance contribution will be give back through the renew contract with the NHS . we oppose this tax , but if the Government will not reverse it , we urge they at the very least to exempt health and care provider . we have hear a number of time from the Prime Minister and the Chancellor , and even from the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury today , that allocation will be make in the usual way , but we be six week on from the Budget and health service be try to decide what to do now . they can not wait . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that GP service , dentist and hospice be have to make decision now on freeze recruitment and not provide wage increase , so there be real urgency to this measure . the change go beyond health and care . they will also affect early year provider and education provider , at a time when we should be reduce the cost of childcare and care service and support parent back into work . the measure will undermine that . I have hear from housing association , Citizens Advice and hospitality company that the pressure from this measure will make life incredibly difficult for they . hospitality in particular relie on a lot of part - time worker , and the change to national insurance contribution will have a terrible effect . many of they tell I that at the moment — before the change have take effect — employer national insurance contribution liability be incur only once a part - time worker start earn £ 9 , 100 per annum . that be 15 hour a week on the current national minimum wage . once the change take effect , however , liability will be incur at only £ 5 , 000 per annum , or the equivalent of 7 . 5 hour a week on the new national minimum wage . that will disincentivise small business from take on part - time worker . let we be honest : many people can only work part time because they be pick up the piece of a broken health and social care system . the hon . Lady be make a powerful speech . someone come back from a mental health crisis who manage to get one day ' s work a week — that may initially be all that they can manage — will , under this so - call Government of worker , find themselves hit by the measure and so will be less likely to be employ . also , most of the cost of the measure will come out of their wage . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that point . many people work part time , for all sort of reason . they could be come back from a period of poor mental health . they could be return to work after bring up their child . they could have a fluctuate health condition , be recover from surgery or , as I be say , be pick up the piece of a broken social care system , have become a family carer . we all know these people . they live among we . they be our friend , our neighbour and our family member . many people need to work part time in order to contribute to the economy and be productive , and it be also good for their self - esteem . a number of Labour Members have rightly challenge the conservative on how they would pay for this investment in the NHS , and they be right to do so , because the Institute for Fiscal Studies give a damn account of the Conservatives ' manifesto . it say that it contain " giveaway pay for by uncertain , unspecific and apparently victimless saving . " also , the Conservatives could not say where the £ 20 billion - worth of cut could come from , so Labour Members be right to point to the fact that the Conservatives have not answer that question . we should hold their foot to the fire on that point , because we hear time and again in the run - up to 4 July that everything be break and that the Conservatives have drive our economy into the ground and leave our public service on their knee . by contrast , we Liberal Democrats have set out how we would fund many of these service . the Labour party say that its measure will amount to £ 28 billion for investment in health and social care , or at least in the NHS , but the Office for Budget Responsibility say that once the amount be adjust for behaviour change and public sector rebate , it come to only £ 10 billion . we have suggest a number of measure and , in the spirit of constructive opposition , I urge Labour Members to look at they , if not for this Budget , then at least for the next . if the Government have reverse the Conservatives ' tax cut for the big bank , that would have raise £ 4 billion a year . if they have double the remote gambling duty , that would have raise up to £ 900 million a year . if they have treble the digital service tax , that would have raise £ 2 billion a year . we have point to example of way that the Government could have raise fund from those with the broad shoulder . in the spirit of constructive opposition , I urge Labour colleague to look at those measure . the hon . Lady have cite the IFS , which say of the liberal Democrat manifesto that " there be clear risk that their package of tax measure would not raise the £ 27 billion a year that they claim . " the IFS also describe some of the measure as " a bad idea economically . " confront with a Bill promise actual investment and deliver actual money , will the Liberal Democrats really oppose it ? the fact remain that the IFS say that our proposal for capital gain tax , which would raise £ 5 billion , go in " a sensible direction " . I recognise that the IFS do not like our proposal for share buy - back , but other think - tank be available . indeed , the Social Market Foundation and the Institute for Public Policy Research support our online gambling proposal . a broad range of think - tank support a number of measure in our manifesto . as I say , in the spirit of constructive opposition , I urge Labour Members to look at those idea . I finish where I start . this Saturday be Small Business Saturday , and small business will shoulder a disproportionate burden from the increase to national insurance contribution . we urge the Government not to proceed with this measure , but if they do , they should , at the very least , exclude health and care provider , which be essential to get health and care back on their foot . it be a pleasure to be call to speak in this incredibly important debate . on 30 October , the Chancellor deliver a Budget that will rebuild the foundation of our broken economy through public investment pay for by tax revenue . we be proud that those revenue will be raise from both the large business and the wealthy individual . public investment will be pay for by those who can well afford it , to benefit we all and make our nation more prosperous . we enter office with the bad economic inheritance since 1945 , after year of under - investment — the low rate in the G7 — year of failure , the bad fall in wage since Napoleon , and year of chaos . in 2022 , we build few onshore wind farm in England than we have conservative Prime Ministers . the Conservatives leave our nation far weak than they find it — a nation where 3 million people be too sick to work because one in 10 nursing job be unfilled ; a nation where one in three young people fail math gcse because around half of our school do not have the math teacher that they need ; the nation with the high energy bill and inflation , because we have the worst - insulate home in western Europe . that be what we be elect to change . as well as have a mandate to rebuild this nation , we be also elect to rebuild hope by create a country that , once again , get well rather than bad . in the spirit of hope for growth , the hon . Gentleman will be interested to know that I send a survey to all the business in my constituency . perhaps we be an outlier , but 95 % of business in Beverley and Holderness say that they expect thing to be bad as a result of the Budget . it might be different in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , especially if he stay at home . I politely suggest that the right hon . Gentleman should not set up a polling company , as that be not an effective sampling strategy . deary I . where do I start ? anyway , we be insulate our home and hire more nurse and teacher — and yes , we will pay those nurse and teacher enough money to keep they , because that be what responsible government do . all that investment need to be pay for . that be why we be raise national insurance contribution for the large employer , with £ 3 out of every £ 4 raise come from the large 2 % of business . that will raise some £ 23 billion of investment that every family and business will benefit from . crucially , we be raise that money while protect the small business . the hon . Gentleman keep talk about the large business , but the Government be completely wipe out small and medium - sized business across the whole hospitality and retail sector . this be a catastrophic piece of legislation . he talk about a kamikaze Budget ; we be consider a kamikaze Budget right here , today . not only be we protect the small business by raise the employment allowance , but there will be business rate relief for the hospitality business to which the hon . Gentleman refer . do the hon . Gentleman understand how frustrating it be for Liberal Democrat Members to be tell that this be the Scottish Government ' s problem ? it be not the Scottish Government ' s problem ; it be the problem of scottish business if they be be hit by national insurance contribution increase without business rate relief . we be tired of hear that this be a tough decision ; it be an easy decision that be tough for business . it be the responsible decision to invest in this country ' s foundation , so that we get the doctor , nurse and teacher that we all need , and to insulate our home . I share the hon . Gentleman ' s aspiration for get more funding into the NHS . on Friday , in the debate in this House on support people at the end of life , hon . member from across the Chamber highlight the importance of get more funding and support for palliative care , but Sue Ryder warn that financial pressure , such as the rise in national insurance contribution , could force closure of crucial hospice , which patient desperately need . note the wide case that the hon . Gentleman be make , would he join I in urge the Government to review and revisit the impact that the measure will have on health and care provider , and the wide voluntary sector ? the Government will set out exactly what the health and care budget will be before next April , and the investment will go towards improve the health and care system that we and our loved one rely on . all the money that be be invest in the health service , our teacher and elsewhere across the economy need to be raise — and , yes , we be raise it from the large employer . by increase the employment allowance , we be protect the small business . half of business will pay the same national insurance or less . a quarter of a million of the small business will see their national insurance tax bill fall . from tax revenue , we will invest in our people and our place to ensure that they can thrive , build on public investment in our infrastructure and our service . country that grow the fast be not simply those that tax the least . if all we need to do to create prosperity be cut taxis to their low level , Somalia would be rich than Sweden . however , ikea be not about to relocate to Mogadishu . the country that grow the fast be those that raise a return on investment . return be high when business have the road that they need to transport their good , worker have the skill that they need to produce more , and all of we have cheap electricity and well insulate home . those be the decision that we have make , and be proud to make , in this Budget . across the Atlantic , in the United States , we have see a multi - trillion dollar investment package , which help to deliver the fast growth in the G7 . there be new road , new factory and new clean energy project from Wisconsin to Wyoming . that public investment lead to the fast post - pandemic recovery in the G7 , whereas we have one of the weak . that be why , here at home , we be invest to raise return ; invest in our school , our NHS and home insulation to make we well educate and healthy and to get energy bill down for all and for good opposition party have spend an awful lot of time attack various measure in the Budget . do my hon . friend agree that if they be go to do that , they need to point out which investment — money to our school or to hospital — they would not provide to alleviate their concern ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend . if opposition party wish to criticise the tax rise on the large business and the wealthy individual , they must set out what service they will cut and who will not get a GP appointment or the teacher that be need . we be invest to raise return . invest in our school , NHS and home insulation make we well educate and healthy and get energy bill down for all of we . that investment be pay for through tax revenue . the principle behind which we raise that be simple yet powerful : it be about collective contribution for collective benefit , share in the rebuilding of our nation and , of course , the rebuilding of hope . I assure Members that we have now resolve the problem with the clock and that there be a six - minute time limit . I call Stuart Anderson . it be a pleasure to speak so high up on the list and to follow the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) . I believe I will have different view from he in this job tax debate . Manifesto commitment be very important . as politician , we go out to the public and tell they what we be go to do . I hear time and again the phrase , " we will not raise taxis " , which Government Members will finish with " on work people " — I will come to the definition of " work people " shortly — so why be we now in a debate discuss national insurance contribution and how they will rise ? I have a couple of question for the Minister . when the Chancellor look at the figure and the OBR forecast , do she either not spend enough time on they , or do she not understand they ? I be keen to understand that . also , in the access talk , when Labour sit with the civil service , they be tell about everything that be happen . at what stage do they then realise that the figure be completely different ? they be not . Labour be able to see behind the scene and the Chancellor have a full view , through which they could go to the british people and tell they they would not raise taxis — yet here we be today with a debate on raise taxis for work people . I meet a group of work people — I define they as work people — make up of almost every publican in Ludlow . they deal in hospitality at the high level , give that Ludlow be the fine food capital of the UK ; indeed , I invite member to come and see that great quality . I sit with those member of the hospitality industry . some have be in it for a few year and many for a decade or two . they know the trade in South Shropshire and know hospitality exceptionally well , have work year on year and create a great reputation . they be at the stage where their turnover be the same , their footfall be roughly the same , but they can not see , as of next April , how they can make a profit . we can argue backwards and forwards about what we think . I be listen to my constituent , in a town , who almost unanimously agree that they can not see a way forward when the Budget come into play next year . under the last Conservative Government , 10 pub close every single week . before the hon . member talk about our record , will he apologise for the record of the last Conservative Government , which be incredibly damaging to business , particularly hospitality business , across the country ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I be pretty sure the Chancellor have just say , " hold my beer , I will make that 20 pub a week . " my constituent be really struggle with this Budget . they can not see a way forward and be plead with I to lobby the Government to say that this will not work for they . these be people who know what work for they inside out . they do not own massive business , but many of they employ more than four people . they may not have the broad shoulder , but they have work for many year to make thing work . business be struggle not just in Ludlow , but across my constituency . Small Business Saturday be come up , and I be hear business after business say that they be find it impossible to see a way forward next year . the hon . Member be talk about small business . last week , I be proud to host member of the Federation of Small Businesses here in Parliament , who welcome the Budget , particularly the increase in the employment allowance , which will see the small business benefit — 250 , 000 of the small business well off now than they be before the Budget . be they wrong ? I be pretty sure that the Federation of Small Businesses have not welcome the national insurance rise on small business . I be happy to look at that , but I be convinced that no small business be enjoy a rise in employer ' national insurance contribution rate . finally , I have a question for the Minister . do she believe that the Chancellor will still be in her position when this Bill come into play — if it be vote through tonight ? my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary rightly say that this Bill be about tough decision . the conservative party use to be about take tough decision . we may not have like they , but we respect they because we think that they be do thing in a pragmatic and consistent way . early this year — in my former life as a journalist — I interview the former Chancellor , Ken Clarke . he say this about tax : " I didn ' t have a fixation on taxation . taxis sometimes have to go up . taxis sometimes have to go down . it depend on the need of the macroeconomy and the public need … and , yes , I raise taxis quite frequently and I cut some taxis … I make my mind up on what be necessary . " sadly , that Tory party be long go , replace by the libertarian ideological collaborator of chaos whom we see on the Opposition Benches . bad of all , their sum simply do not add up , and , as a result , it have be leave to Labour to clean up the mess they leave behind . the economic situation that we inherit in the summer be much bad than anyone anticipate , so much so that Richard Hughes of the Office for Budget Responsibility say that Treasury Ministers " fail their statutory duty " . he tell the Treasury Committee that there be about " £ 9 . 5 billion worth of net " — spending — " pressure … which they do not disclose to we … which under the law , and under the Act they should have do . " that be what he say to the Treasury Committee . if the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) wish to dispute his word , will he please get up and say so ? I remember that Liz Truss and her Cabinet , some of whom be now in the shadow Cabinet , be in favour of fracke . well , her mini - Budget certainly fracke our economy . it be a high pressure injection of debt - fuel tax cut make in the hope of extract hide growth . instead , it create an earthquake on the money market and lead to rocket mortgage bill that many be still feel the aftershock of today . one thing that strike I most about that " Kami - Kwasi " Budget — yes , I do claim copyright on that phrase — be that the allege tax cutter on that day be actually increase the tax burden for million through fiscal drag . yes , bury away in that growth plan be the continuation of the previous Government ' s plan to freeze tax threshold , and they all back that massive increase in the tax burden . I be pleased to say that this Government will end that fiscal drag act in 2028 , uprating personal threshold in line with inflation once again . the chaos do not end with the Truss - Kwarteng double act , who drive themselves and the economy off a cliff like the Tory " Thelma & Louise " . sadly , even the normally sensible right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) put his own last desperate tax cut before public service . his spending plan be incredible in that they lack credibility . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would never dare to tread on your toe , but perhaps something be wrong with the electronic equipment because the screen say that this be a national insurance debate , rather than some generalise debate . I sympathise , though , with the hon . Gentleman and other Labour Members for not want to talk about their own policy — they would rather slag we off . the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that that be not really a point of order . I be sure the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) be get to the point on the second reading of the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill . I be , indeed , come to exactly that point , because this be set in the context of what the Tories leave behind . the clear trajectory of their last Budget be to squeeze day - to - day public spending to just 1 % above inflation every year until 2029 . that carry dire implication for every unprotected Department — up to £ 20 billion of cut a year . the Resolution Foundation calculate that that would be the equivalent of three quarter of the cut of the austerity year — austerity 2 . 0 . sadly , there be no evidence that the former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , leave her own note for her successor . if she have , it surely would have read , " I ' m afraid to tell you there be no money for public service . " if the Conservatives have win the last election , what would that have mean in practice ? my right hon . friend the Health Secretary reveal that when he take office , he be tell that the NHS be face such large deficit it would have to cut 20 , 000 appointment and operation a week . thank in part to the national insurance rise in the Bill , he can now deliver on our manifesto commitment to provide 40 , 000 extra appointment every week , with our investment in mental health service treat an extra 380 , 000 patient . be the hon . member aware that the Royal College of General Practitioners say that it will cost 2 . 2 million appointment just to service the NIC payment that must be make ? how do that resolve our service provision in primary care ? the Heath Secretary say that he will address that in due course , and I be sure that he will before April , as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) set out . the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) may want to answer the question I put to the Conservative Front Bench . if they be so opposed in principle to national insurance rise , why do they support the health and social care levy in 2021 ? the hon . Member vote for it , as do the hon . member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) and the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) — why ? they can not tell I why because they know they be be inconsistent . will the hon . member give way on that point ? if he would like to explain why he vote for it , yes . absolutely . do the hon . member realise that we have to deal with that because the amount that we have to borrow in 2010 be £ 158 billion ? for the pandemic , it be £ 400 billion . that be the kind of thing that the Conservatives have have to deal with that lead to the difficult decision . we be on track to have the fast grow economy , which have now be trash by decision take by Labour . in the process , you leave we with a massive structural deficit . order . that be the second time the hon . Gentleman have do it : I have leave nothing . forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker . Labour be the party take tough decision today and refuse to duck the issue that the Conservatives be so timid to grasp , from plan reform to energy security , from welfare reform to remove tax break for the rich . in the past four week , the Conservatives have make £ 6 . 7 billion of commitment to cut taxis , but they have not say which public service they would cut to fund they . but the most damning indictment of their low - pay , low - growth , low - investment , low - productivity economic be the model that totally fail . in 1964 , the outgoing Tory Chancellor Reggie Maudling bump into James Callaghan and say , " good luck , old cock . sorry to leave it in such a mess . " it be a shame that the current Tory party can not earn up to their own failure with a similar sense of regret or humility . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) . I rise to relay some of the concern that have be raise with I by constituent and business . they be concerned not only about the impact of the Bill ' s proposal on small business in my constituency , but about the provision of public service there . it have be interesting to listen to various opinion on this matter , but I will begin by push back on the implication make by some that the change in the Bill will not have an impact on small business . the fact be that the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that from 2026 - 27 onwards , 76 % of the total cost of the increase employer national insurance contribution will be pass on through low real wage . that tell we not only that there will be an impact on business , but that contrary to what have be suggest by some in the Chamber , there will be an impact on worker . much have be say about the impact on business , and I very much agree with those concern , but I will concentrate my remark on the impact on public service in Wales . it be worth note that 30 % of the Welsh workforce be employ in the public sector — a much high proportion that the rest of the UK — so the propose increase in employer national insurance contribution equate to some £ 380 million . clearly , the Bill will therefore have significant consequence for the provision of public service , and it remain unclear whether the additional Government support — or the reimbursement — will meet the increase cost . local authority across Wales already face budget shortfall of over half a billion pound . at a time of significant budgetary pressure , Ceredigion county council — one of the county council in my constituency — estimate that the increase in NICs will total over £ 4 million in one year alone . community deserve assurance that essential service will not be far jeopardise because funding gap be exacerbate by the change in the Bill . can the Minister confirm that the full cost of the increase national insurance contribution will be reimburse to local government in Wales ? furthermore , will that additional support be recur ? the last thing we want be for additional cost to be cover in year one , two and three , only for local government to face a funding cliff edge after that . in addition to the direct cost to public authority , for which the Government have suggest they will provide additional support , we should also bear in mind the other organisation — public and third sector organisation — that be integral to deliver many of the public service that we consider valuable to society . social care provider be one example . they care for the vulnerable and help to alleviate pressure on the NHS , yet the cost of the NICs increase could be devastating for they . Care Forum Wales estimate that the cost to its member across Wales will total a staggering £ 45 million . I hear what be say from the Treasury Bench about additional support be allocate in the usual way , but I would like to know how that additional cost will be allocate to Wales . I understand that , in their conversation with the Welsh Government , the Government in Westminster be discuss the additional cost of only the public sector organisation that will be reimburse directly . there be other example in the third sector , include citizen advice bureaux , which , although they provide invaluable support to some of the most vulnerable in society , be face significant additional cost without there be any talk of Government support . the hon . Gentleman may have notice that the OBR have to amend the number that it produce after the Budget because it have reduce the cost of compensate the public sector and social care by around £ 800 million a year . do he , like I , want the Minister to clarify whether the Government intend to put nearly £ 1 billion extra into social care cost , and when it be decide , and by whom , that they should not go ahead and should leave social care in the parlous position it now find itself in ? I very much agree . I hope that the Minister will return to that in she sum up . I labour the point about the third sector and public sector organisation that do not stand to receive reimbursement from the government because they be so crucial to deliver many of the public service that we have hear so much about in the debate . there be a real risk that if our social care hub , hospice , dentist and GPs be not adequately reimburse , all the Government will do be erode the value of the investment that they claim to be make in those service . I could also say a little bit about the university sector . high education be a very important sector in my constituency : ceredigion Preseli be home to two university , Aberystwyth University and the University of Wales Trinity Saint David . both organisation be currently face very difficult time , as be most high education institution , and both state that they will be deal with quite significant additional cost next year when the Government ' s proposal come into force . there be no talk of additional support for those institution , so I worry very much that we will lose the incredible economic contribution they make to my constituency , let alone their important social and cultural contribution . be the hon . member about to come on to the part where he welcome the large real - term settlement for Wales since devolution ? I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention — we have be bless with many of his contribution this afternoon . with the Barnett formula , I be not go to thank the hon . Gentleman ' s Government for a large settlement , because that settlement be only a function of spending decision make to address the need of public service in England . if they have propose a reform of the Barnett formula to make it a proper need - base formula , I would very much congratulate the hon . Gentleman and his Government on do so . we all recognise the need to raise revenue to meet the challenge face our economy . we have hear some alternative suggestion this afternoon — the Government could well have decide to look again at corporation tax , or at least to tackle business on the profit they make . other proposal that the Government might have consider include change to capital gain tax ; for example , a full equalisation of capital gain tax rate could raise £ 14 billion a year . there have also be no mention by the Government of explore a wealth tax on the ultra - rich . it be not fair that wealth inequality continue to grow at the expense of our public service and community . it have be suggest by some that a 2 % tax on asset over £ 10 million , which would target the top 20 , 000 rich people in the country , could raise £ 24 billion . I fear that the proposal in this Bill will have a significant impact on both the worker and the business in my constituency , as well as — quite importantly — the provision of public service . we have already hear in this debate many alternative proposal that the Government could have implement , but decide not to . the decision we be take today to raise employer ' s national insurance contribution be a difficult one , but ultimately , it be the right choice . the situation we inherit from the last Government be so dire that it mean tough choice need to be make . ask large business to pay a little more so that we can fix our broken service be a fairer option than ask work people — who already face the high tax burden since the second world war — to pay more . my case today be not only a moral case , but an economic one . People who think public service be a drain on the economy fail to understand how those public service make our economy function . I be remind of a 70 - year - old woman I meet on the doorstep in East Thanet who be tell she would have to wait 16 week for an initial scan to find out whether she have cancer , or the mother who have to drive around east Kent in the dark before Christmas to get medical treatment for her child who be suspect of have meningitis , because she could not register her child at a GP practice . Healthcare in east Kent be on its knee . this year , East Kent hospital trust , which run the Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother hospital in Margate , record the high number of 12 - hour waiting time in England . when poll , only 45 % of its staff say that they would be happy for a love one to be treat at that trust — what an indictment . I be prepared to accept that problem like this have exist for long than 14 year in coastal constituency such as mine . the NHS crisis be particularly acute in coastal community such as East Thanet , as highlight by a 2021 report by Chris Whitty entitle " Health in Coastal Communities " . we have some of the bad healthcare outcome in England , with a high rate of major disease and a low life expectancy , so this funding be essential for healthcare outcome in East Thanet and in coastal community across the country . there be a real need for a coastal community healthcare strategy , but I challenge the opposition to say how they would fund our NHS and improve health outcome in coastal community . they want all the benefit of the Budget , but they will not back the measure to deliver those benefit . they need to take some responsibility for the situation we find ourselves in . there be structural problem that we can put down to the last 14 year of Tory Government . chronic mismanagement of the NHS and year of underfunding have leave the health service cry out for help . shift public health responsibility to local authority make sense and move healthcare to where people live be an essential reform , but do that while cut real - term fund for local authority have be a disaster . this be not just about make a moral argument for free healthcare at the point of use . I hope that argument have be win across most of society and in this place . this be an argument about people be able to contribute to the economy . we can not have growth with a sick workforce and a fail healthcare system . this be about the people who be use saving to go private , or have to take time off work because they can not afford to pay and be too sick to work . there be shift worker try to earn money and waiting week for a doctor ' s appointment , and small business owner work through healthcare issue when they should be get treatment , because they can not afford to take time off . nobody say that this do not have an economic impact . I know that difficult decision have have to be make , but I have be talk to small business owner . I be particularly think of the owner of a chain of convenience store in Lechlade , and the difficult decision he be have to make of which of his part - time worker he be go to lay off in the run - up to Christmas . should not the difficult decision be those of the big tech company about whether they actually pay their fair share of corporation tax ? should they not be the really tough — order . if the hon . Lady wish to speak later in the debate , she be very welcome to do so , but intervention have to be short , and we have a lot of people to get in . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . I agree that if we be to revive the high street , we will need to make sure that the online giant pay their way , and I look forward to make that argument in the future . I refer again to the 70 - year - old woman I meet on the doorstep in East Thanet who be tell she have to wait 16 week for a potential cancer diagnosis . she also tell I that this be impact on her ability to provide childcare for her family . we sometimes do not appreciate the impact on society and our economy of have an inadequate healthcare system , but it have an enormously wide - range impact . raise national insurance contribution on employer be a difficult choice , but give our economic inheritance and the dire state of our NHS , it be the right one . do the opposition think we should not increase NHS funding by £ 25 . 6 billion or that we should not recruit 6 , 500 new teacher for our school ? if they agree with these investment , how do they suggest we pay for they ? there be a choice — stability , investment and reform , or chaos , incompetence and stagnation . I urge the House to support these measure to fund the nhs that the economy desperately need . the Government have repeatedly claim that this be a tax on business , not a tax on work people , and how wrong they be . they be not only wrong , but deeply disingenuous to the people we represent who will see price increase , their chance of employment become more difficult , and many business have to wind down or restrict their operation . the owner of the Barley Mow pub in Hartford write to I express his concern and frustration at the lack of detail the Government have provide about support for the hospitality industry . this echo the representation make by ukhospitality , which have say that " the tsunami of employment cost come in April will ultimately do more to hamper growth than incentivise it . increase to employer nic and wage will make it hard for business to support employment and invest in their business . " I would like to hear from the Economic Secretary , when she sum up , why the Government want the amazing pub , restaurant and cater business in Huntingdon to suffer this unfair , ill thought through and deeply unpopular job tax . the British Retail Consortium write to the Chancellor express its grave concern about the impact this will have on the business it represent , with our large supermarket chain have to pass on these cost to consumer , and that be before we talk about the impact of this Budget on farmer , but I be sure Labour Members will have plenty to say about that tomorrow . not only will business with high number of lower - pay worker be impact , but I have receive many email from GP surgery and hospice that be terrify about what this mean for they . I pay tribute to the Cambridgeshire local medical committee for the work it have do in raise the fact that the average gp surgery in Huntington , with just under 14 , 000 patient , will face increase cost , with the minimum wage and national insurance change , of approximately £ 48 , 000 . that money be equivalent to the salary for three and a half session of a newly qualified gp , one full - time equivalent nurse , and almost two full - time healthcare assistant . add to that , a gp who have serve Huntingdon for 30 year tell I that the increase cost might see many practitioner hand back their contract . who will suffer from that ? the staff of Moat House surgery or Grove medical practice who could be out of job , and the patient of Priory Fields or Brampton surgery who might lose their gps . Dr Duncan Outram and Dr Barbara Uszycka have a combine 62 year of service in the NHS , 50 of which have be serve Huntingdon . they tell I that the estimate black hole of £ 37 , 000 be cause great concern not only about their future plan , but because it risk more young professional leave the NHS . GPs serve our community in the most amazing way and they be a key part of medical care for so many of we . the impact that the measure will have on NHS provision be deeply damaging and must be review . we must protect the NHS to ensure that our constituent get the care they need , but this policy do the opposite . add to the list of those concern be hospice , which be already so overstretched . despite be a key part of end of life care , they be terrify about the impact of this measure on the amazing care that they offer . furthermore , we have hardly hear what it would mean for our armed force . although we constantly hear from the Government that they be prioritise national security , we do not know what the potential impact of this provision would be on the MOD ' s budget . all that show that the Government be rush into implement something , without any detail about what the impact will be in so many area . in conclusion , I urge the Government to rethink and have the moral courage to take ownership of their mistake . if they go ahead with this policy , we will see people lose their job , business be unable to expand , care provision stretch even far , and work people suffer . the Government should go back to their manifesto and say no to back - door stealth taxis on work people . the Budget deliver in this House a few week ago be a Budget for growth , investment and public service . it be a Budget deliver by a Chancellor who be direct about the scale of the challenge that we inherit from the conservative party , and who be clear and optimistic that we can build a well country , but only with honesty and clarity about how we raise the revenue we need . the increase in employer national insurance contribution will raise £ 25 billion . that be a choice make by this Labour Government , but it be the only responsible choice available to we on discover the depth of the damage do over the last 14 year . the cost to the economy be over £ 25 billion , but the net cost , have adjust for behavioural change and compensate the public sector , be more like £ 10 billion or £ 11 billion . do he regret that this particular vehicle be choose ? it damage the economy , it will take nearly £ 20 billion out of people ' s wage , and it raise only £ 10 billion or £ 11 billion . it be about the bad tax imposition we could think of . I do not regret the vehicle we have choose . I have faith in the figure in the Red Book . interestingly , I have hear colleague on the Opposition Benches cite the OBR , and that be from the same party who , just two year ago when it be in government , want to get rid of the OBR and not listen to expert voice at all . indeed , I remember they say that they have " have enough of expert " . we have hear lot of supposedly deep concern for business from Conservative Members . of course that be not so much of an issue for the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , who as Prime Minister tell his government to " eff business " . or indeed for his successor , the former Member for South West Norfolk . her one fiscal event as Prime Minister be call a " mini - Budget " , but the lasting damage that it do to our economy be anything but small — market in turmoil , high mortgage repayment for thousand of my constituent in Welwyn Hatfield , debt rise , debt interest payment up , and of course not even a hint of an apology . as for the most recent Administration , I be sorry not to see the shadow Chancellor in his place . during the election campaign I hugely respect how many time he hit the airwave of tv and radio station to defend the manifesto that the Conservatives put to the country . for a verdict on that manifesto I defer to Paul Johnson , director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , who say : " what the manifesto do not tell we be where the £ 10 to £ 20 billion of cut to spending on unprotected public service … might come from . this manifesto remain silent on the wide problem face core public service . " the Labour party will not stay silent on the problem face our public service . opposition party can choose fantasy economic ; we choose a change to national insurance to fund the rescue and reform that our public service need . that change start with pay our public servant properly . when I go through the Lobby to support this national insurance Bill , I will think of the serve member of the armed force , who receive a 6 % pay rise from this Labour Government , the big in 22 year . I will think of the extra money in the pocket of the police , who face down the shocking disorder in our community across the country this summer . I will think of Daisy and Jake , the two paramedic I join on a shift in Hertfordshire a few month ago . have the hon . member speak to anyone in his constituency who be not in the public sector ? absolutely . I speak to business day in , day out . those business say to I , " thank goodness we have have a change in government after the past 14 year . " I will return to Daisy and Jake , because I would like to put they on the record . I join those two paramedic on a shift in Hertfordshire . they be extraordinarily dedicated public servant finally receive an overdue boost to their income . I also think of our teacher . I have visit a different school in Welwyn Hatfield in almost every week of this job , and it be invariably the highlight of my week to meet such dedicated staff and inspire pupil . at the same time , it be evident how many school be stretch to their limit and beyond . this change to national insurance help to fund a billion in extra revenue for the special education need and disability budget and , far , it make sure that we can recruit 6 , 500 additional teacher across the country . everyone in this House have a choice today . member can choose to oppose the Bill and by do so confirm that they be not serious about the public finance or our public service , or they can support it , and back our nurse , the police , the fire service , teacher and our serve military personnel . I will back this Bill as I back the Budget . together , they be the foundation on which this Government will deliver on our manifesto and drive the change our country so badly need . I welcome some of the measure introduce in the Budget , such as more investment in the NHS to start repair all the damage do to our local health service by the Conservatives . however , the increase to employer national insurance contribution be the wrong decision and will have a serious impact on key sector and service across the country . a few example of such negative impact stand out . first , on local authority , I be glad to hear from Somerset council that it believe it will be fully compensate in the settlement for its share of the increase in employer national insurance contribution this year , but as the Minister know , Somerset council work with care organisation and care home to provide care for more than 5 , 000 people . as their share be not cover , those company will need to increase their charge to Somerset council , impact hugely on the council finance . will the Minister commit to support the council with those extra cost ? secondly , many community pharmacy that provide essential service in my constituency and across the country , affect everyone , be struggle with exist financial pressure . the community pharmacy sector have face a decade of funding cut , and the NHS workload have increase . we have already lose 1 , 200 pharmacy from our community since 2015 . however , as independent contractor , pharmacy will not be exempt from the rise in national insurance . how do the Minister expect pharmacy to continue to support community and the NHS when yet more pressure be be place on they ? finally , the Government have make funding and support access to nursery a priority , which I welcome , but raise the national insurance rate for employer could worsen the shortfall of nursery funding , with parent have to pay . the Early Years Alliance say that 95 % of childcare provider be set to increase fee , as the Government do not mitigate the national insurance contribution increase and the rise in the minimum wage . will the Minister commit to support nursery too ? in conclusion , raise national insurance be a tax on job that will deal a hammer blow to small business and struggle care provider . should the Government not look to raise money by reverse the Conservatives ' tax cut for big bank or by ask social medium giant to pay their fair share , rather than burden sector that provide essential service to our community ? it be real pleasure to rise in support of the Bill and to follow excellent speech from Labour Members set out eloquently why the Bill be necessary . as the House have dissect at length in recent week in the debate follow the Budget and last week ' s debate on the Finance Bill , which I be happy to take part in , the public finance that the Government have inherit be clearly in an incredibly parlous state — that be probably the polite description that anyone have use today . I want to outline briefly why the Bill be necessary and how it will protect and promote small business across our country . the Bill form part of a long - term plan to fix the foundation of our public expenditure and provide much - need support to public service , which we must have if all our constituent be to receive the support they need . the measure in the Bill on national insurance can not be see in isolation ; they be part of a range of action announce at the Budget , include abolish non - dom tax loophole , extend the levy on oil and gas company , and reform stamp duty land tax . the Bill represent not the easy choice so often take by the Conservatives , who self - evidently fail to fix the roof while the sun be shine , while still put up taxis to their high level for 70 year . it represent the tough choice that be necessary to get we back on an even footing . the measure contain in the Bill be in large part how the new Government will begin to address the need to cut NHS waiting time , which we all know be at record high before the devastation cause by the covid - 19 pandemic , as well as the crisis in our court , local government , social care and our school among other area . I want to focus in particular on how small business be protect in this legislation as well as more broadly on the measure announce at the Budget . small business be the lifeblood of our economy across our country , and particularly so in my constituency . one of the great pleasure of the last few month have be to visit and meet the people who run small business across Dartford , in Swanscombe , Greenhithe , Longfield and other place . I want to quote the Federation of Small Businesses , since it have be mention in the debate . in response to the Budget , and recognise that it be a tough budget , it state : " increase the employment allowance for small business by a record amount be a very welcome move and we ' re please the Chancellor have hear we loud and clear . " you state — he ! sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . Member state that he have speak to constituent and many small business across his constituency , but he quote the Federation of Small Businesses . could we hear from business that he have speak to as to how this measure benefit they ? the business in my constituency feel that the most important thing be to have a good trading environment , and I be happy to report that they feel that if we have support for public service and economic growth , the trading environment will be right for they . the FSB also say : " against a challenge backdrop , today ' s Budget show a clear direction in business policy now for the whole of this Parliament to target support at small business , rather than big corporate — prioritise everyday entrepreneur work in local community in all part of the country . " that be thank to the choice that the Labour Government have make to protect small business by increase the employment allowance , as have be say , and expand it to all eligible employer . it must also be see alongside the Government ' s plan to rebalance business rate and new measure announce in September , which I very much welcome , to support small business and the self - employ by tackle the scourge of late payment , which , accord to the Smart Data Foundry , cost small and medium - sized enterprise £ 22 , 000 a year on average and , accord to research by the Federation of Small Businesses , lead 50 , 000 business to close each year . take on balance , the measure to assist small business and the measure to invest in public service make this a Budget that be positive for our country and will help to rebuild our economy . there appear to be a glaring omission on the part of the government : without a thriving private sector , there be no public sector to fund at all . I wish that Labour would acknowledge that much more vehemently and clearly than it appear to . the Government talk a lot about public service and how the proposal they have put forward in the Budget will support a thriving public sector , but we do not hear about the public sector need to deliver much more , in term of productivity gain . if we keep throw money into public service without a serious plan for structural reform , we fail every single stakeholder — the taxpayer , and , if we be talk about the NHS , the patient and the doctor . we have hear a lot this afternoon about investment in the public sector and what the proposal will do to small business , but we have not hear the opposition recognise that this country need a healthy workforce . the Bill propose a sustainable and manageable approach to fund that healthy workforce . will the hon . Gentleman describe to the House how damaging the previous Government ' s treatment of the workforce be , and the long - stand and grow number of people claim out - of - work benefit ? do he not see that the Bill will make a sustainable contribution ? I think the hon . Lady miss the point that I be make . if we be to have a thriving , sustainable set of public service , it be not just a case of fund they ; we need structural reform , so that we can deliver the good - quality service at the point of need . take the NHS as an example . it be fundamentally different from how it be at its inception . People live long and suffer from different illness . it be incumbent on Government , the whole of the public sector and this Parliament to focus on how money be spend to deliver value for money for everyone involve . a few week ago , the Chancellor say that business that be concern about the impact of proposal in this Budget should " cut their cloth accordingly " . well , the same should apply to Government . every single one of we should challenge Government to spend our money much more effectively . once we do that , the tax burden will come down , and when that happen , we can pass on those saving . it be those saving that will ultimately underpin and provide the foundation for an economy that will grow and incentivise business across the board . the Government talk a lot about the climate and the context that they inherit , but they repeatedly fail to acknowledge covid — one of the big public finance intervention this country have see , which take place only a few year ago . I agree that there need to be reform of the NHS alongside this investment , and I welcome the point that the hon . Gentleman be make . in a recent speech , the Secretary of State set out what some of those reform could be ; I would welcome hear what the hon . Gentleman think the reform to go alongside the investment ought to be . would he acknowledge , too , that one of the reason why the NHS be in such a difficult position when deal with the pandemic be that it be starve of funding and leave under - prepared ? absolutely not . I do not agree with the hon . Gentleman . under the previous Government , the NHS receive record level of funding . the Government have commit additional fund to the NHS , but they have not put forward a productivity improvement plan . the Government be unable to deliver structural reform because they be in the pocket of their union paymaster . they have zero incentive at all to structurally reform the public service that they claim to care about so dearly . I touch on covid and the financial climate that this Government inherit . over 14 year , the previous Government deliver 800 job per day . the previous Government also deliver a direct cut of £ 900 in national insurance to the pocket of every " work person " . govern be about choice . in this Budget , the Government be borrow £ 40 billion of additional spending . in reality , we be see the same old tax - and - spend Labour . let we look at some of those choice . national insurance contribution be up . the Chancellor say that NIC increase for employer would be a job tax . the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that would be a straightforward breach of the manifesto . rate relief be down . a typical pub be pay £ 6 , 000 more in business rate per annum . there be the family farm tax , which I desperately hope this Government will do a u - turn on , and the education tax . let we look at the impact of all those decision . the economy be flatline — there be 0 . 1 % growth in quarter 3 . inflation be up , from 1 . 7 % to 2 . 3 % . there be a 64 % increase in business closure the week after the Budget . Asda have say that the Government ' s decision in the Budget risk price rise . John Lewis have say that it be worried about the impact of the national minimum wage increase . two third of business claim that they be look at freeze recruitment or make job cut . we have already hear hon . member talk about the impact on the charity sector . in fact , during this debate , I receive an email from YMCA , which say that because of the increase in national insurance that it will have to pay in Worcestershire , it will look to freeze all recruitment and probably make redundancy . it will not be able to give a pay award to any of its staff , and it will look at cut service . that be damn . we see from the Government an ideological pursuit of a policy that be really a false economy . labour be fail the very work person that it claim to be protect . I have be an MP for five month . I have have some wonderful moment in my constituency and in this place , but there have also be some tough and sobering moment . one of those be soon after the election , when I sit here listen to the Chancellor ' s statement on the public spending inheritance . I hear about the huge hole in the public finance , the promise make without the money to pay for they , a promise new hospital programme with no money behind it , and promise compensation for miscarriage of justice and promise funding for Ukraine that be not in the Conservatives ' budget . I be truly shock by the sheer scale of conservative economic mismanagement and — I will admit — I be intimidate by the sheer scale of the challenge to put it right . have the hon . Member see a breakdown of the £ 22 billion black hole ? because I have not . the hon . Member should go on Google . in the month that have follow , I have be proud that this Government have be willing to make the hard choice necessary to protect our economic security , and have take the long - term decision necessary to fix the foundation of our country and finally prioritise our broken public service . we be invest in the NHS , rebuild our crumble classroom and recruit thousand of teacher to end the era of government by press release and empty promise . that be why I support this legislation . the hon . Lady state that she be intimidate by her Budget . I should imagine that be very true — I do not say that . okay . well , be she intimidate by her Budget ? I take it that she would be intimidate by the growth that have be revise downwards , by business confidence crash , and by private sector employer state that they will have to let employee go because of the red tape put on business , all through this Government ' s Budget . I ask the hon . Gentleman not to twist my word . I very clearly say that I be intimidate by the sheer scale of the mess that the conservative party leave our economy in , and the hard conversation I have have to have with my constituent because of how much hard that have make it to make thing well for they . some of the big business in my constituency will find the change difficult , and I thank those who have share their view with I , but I believe that this be a fair choice , give the situation that we be in . small business in my constituency will benefit from the change , and there be also the benefit to all of we from our significant investment in public service . hairdresser , beautician , cleaner , independent shop and artisan baker — the lifeblood of Reading West and Mid Berkshire — will stand to benefit from the expand employment allowance , which will allow they to employ the equivalent of four full - time worker on the national living wage without pay any national insurance contribution on their wage . business in my constituency will also benefit from our reform of business rate , our action to tackle late payment , our significant investment in road and infrastructure , our plan to restore our high street , our commitment to the low corporation tax in the G7 , and , of course , our cast - iron commitment to protect economic stability and grow our economy . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) , the Conservatives want to have their cake and eat it . they say that they support investment in our public service , but they do not say how they would pay for it . they have perfect faux outrage , but they crash the economy and leave a huge mess for we to clean up . they be yet again unwilling to make tough decision in the national interest , but we will not repeat their mistake . we will fix the foundation of our economy and our public service , work hand in hand with our great british business , and we will get our future back on track . what be the caf é owner , the hoteli , the mobile mechanic , the gardener , the florist and — dare I even say it ? — the farmer , if not an ordinary work person ? the Government ' s false prospectus and their dubious cleavage between who be and who be not an ordinary work person be the snake oil that will be their undo soon rather than later . I also inform Treasury Ministers , which I really should not have to do , that when they refer to a business consist of four or five people , they be refer to a microbusiness , not a small business . one would really expect the Treasury to be able to make such a distinction . the Scottish Government point out last week that Labour ' s raid on national insurance would leave a shortfall of at least £ 200 million in scottish public sector finance . labour ' s own figure show that the cost to Scotland of the national insurance increase will be over £ 500 million , include a cost of £ 191 million to Scotland ' s NHS , and that be corroborate by the Fraser of Allander Institute , which have estimate that the Scottish Government will be leave with a £ 500 million shortfall as a result of these taxis . in my constituency , Perth and Kinross council be face a £ 5 . 4 million recur pressure , while Angus council face a £ 5 million pound pressure . when indirect employee such as those in childcare setting , general practice , college or social care be include , the figure in Scotland rise to £ 750 million pound , for which we have be offer £ 300 million in compensation . it be absolutely scandalous . in Scotland , which have more top university per head of population than any other nation in the world , the university sector be under tremendous pressure . and what of the private sector ? the bill for Scotland — the gross quantum by which it will be penalise by this fiscal misadventure — be £ 2 billion , and the private sector be on the hook for £ 1 . 25 billion of that , which be entirely unacceptable . while we be talk about what be happen to Scotland , wouldn ' t it have be nice if some of the Scottish Labour mps have turn up for the debate to speak up for their constituent ? [ interruption . ] perhaps one who be not a parliamentary private secretary , and do not have to be here . about 600 , 000 people in Scotland be employ in the public sector , make up 22 % of the workforce , as oppose to about 17 % in the UK as a whole . that mean that exposure in Scotland be even great . the Fraser of Allander Institute have say that the UK Government appear to be apply Barnett consequential to the public sector compensation for increase nic , although public sector employee be not uniformly distribute between Scotland and rest of the UK . it note : " the UK Government have set aside £ 4 . 7 billion to compensate public sector employer " , although the institute say that " it remain unclear " how they have do that . it say that " the size of the Scottish devolve public sector be 547 , 000 , which be 9 . 2 % of all public sector employment in the UK " . that be a consequence of Scotland ' s geography , and of political decision that have be make in Scotland . I be not shy away from that ; far from it . I be proud of it . the Westminster Government have increase the scottish block grant for 2025 - 26 by £ 3 . 4 billion , which come with a £ 2 billion clawback . that be devolution in a nutshell . the increase in national insurance will prove disastrous for wage , public service , business and growth in Scotland . ahead of Scotland ' s Budget tomorrow , it be vital for the UK Government to reconsider their approach and fully fund this Labour national insurance raid . the OBR have say that it believe most of the increase in national insurance will be pass on to worker and consumer in the form of low wage and high price — you do not need to be an economic wizard to work that out — and the Institute for Fiscal Studies have warn that the move will increase the cost of employ a worker in the bottom fifth of earner by 4 % , compare with around 1 . 5 % for worker in the top fifth of earner . as such , it be clear that this intervention will hit lower - pay worker worst and increase the risk of few job be available in the marketplace . business owner have say that they be now rethink expansion plan for 2025 or delay plan investment . in a joint letter early this month , 81 of the big retail name in the UK warn the Chancellor that her Budget " will make job loss inevitable , and high price a certainty . " the chief executive officer of Sainsbury ' s , Asda and BT be all talk about rise in their operating cost , which will have to be fund somewhere , most likely through price rise . the British Medical Association have describe the national insurance increase as an " existential threat to NHS General Practice " . GPs be already struggle with a recruitment crisis and staff shortage at a time of grow demand and increase pressure , and a survey of care home provider in Scotland find that nearly half of they be note the very real possibility of service closure as a result of the increase in national insurance . similarly , charity be negatively affect . this measure be dysfunctional in a literal sense . it will not deliver what the Government hope ; rather , as we all know and the Government should know , it will reduce growth , suppress wage , cost job , low recruitment , increase inflation and low living standard . what kind of Government would carry out such a calamitous act of economic self - harm ? well , we know : this kind of Government . I look forward to vote against this Bill tonight . in the recent autumn budget — it might feel like a long way away , but it be only a few week ago — the Chancellor make a decision to change the system of employer ' s national insurance contribution . the purpose be to make the large business make a contribution to fund the public service on which work people and business rely . as part of the change to national insurance , we have increase the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , explicitly to protect small business . the change mean that a quarter of a million employer will see the amount of national insurance that they pay get cut . do the hon . Gentleman seriously consider a gp surgery in my constituency with seven doctor and six member of staff to be one of the large business , even though it be suffer from ten of thousand of pound in extra cost and will have to lay people off , which will reduce capacity ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , because he make an excellent point that I be hope to come to later in my speech . the previous Government cut national insurance , and do you know what be also cut ? the number of GPs in my constituency . it be more complicated than member pretend ; it be not " national insurance vs . GPs " . if it be that simple , I would have more gps , not less , in Gateshead Central and Whickham . I would urge those who be enthusiastically cheerlead the previous Government to take a moment to think about that . it be right to say that politics be far more complicated than soundbite . the previous Government , alongside their coalition partner , bring in austerity , which have a huge impact on small and medium - sized business , because it affect the spending power of work people . do my hon . friend agree ? I thank my hon . friend for make that point . it be always worth remind member of all shade and stripe of the existence of the coalition Government . quite often I hear the liberal Democrats talk about 14 year of terrible decision , but I be afraid that they have to own five of those year . we have not hear the opposition thank this government for increase the minimum wage — the word be " thank you " , by the way — to £ 12 . 21 an hour . as we have see , when we increase the minimum wage and put more money in the pocket of work people of all stripe , we see more money spend on high street and in local community , and more thriving local business . I have be meet local business recently , include Prism Coffee in Saltwell park — it do an excellent flat white , by the way — the Rare Drop in Low Fell , which have an absolutely fantastic selection of beer and cheese , and my next - door neighbour , the owner of Creations and Alterations , who can do some work on your suit . but what people in Low Fell have be speak to I about recently be crime — retail crime and crime on our high street — and we be go to tackle that by raise money and spend more on the police so that they can be not only a visible presence in our community but solve crime . for too long , break - in have be ignore , and that be a fundamental problem for business . if they be have to spend £ 1 , 400 on get shutter for their shop on the high street , that be a fundamental hit to their bottom line . if they be have the back door of their business kick in every night of the week , whether money be steal or not , that it be push up their insurance premium and it be a hit to their bottom line . how do we tackle that ? with more police on the street , and we will fund that with this national insurance increase . the Government will receive £ 10 billion from this intervention in the tax regime . how many time be they go to spend it ? I thank the hon . member for his point . this be what be know as a balanced Budget , and we on this side of the House be go to do something remarkable . the amount of money that we raise will match the amount of money that we spend . I know that might seem alien to some of those on the Opposition Benches , but that be what we be go to do . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I have be more than generous in take intervention so far . it be amazing to see the anger that have be generate among Conservative Members . let we remember their record , because it be important for the context . in government , they double the national debt , stagnate wage — which be awful for business , by the way , especially small business that rely on local people spend money — and cause a cost of living crisis . their own Prime Minister , Liz Truss — remember the name ? — deliver a Budget make up of £ 45 billion of unfunded tax commitment and crash the value of the pound to its low ever value against the dollar . the british people suffer , waiting list soar , school crumble , bus do not come on time or at all and we wait hour for ambulance or year for surgery . I be concerned about GPs , because I be sick of people have to call at 8 o ' clock every morning to demand an appointment for themselves or for their child , only to be tell that there be no appointment that day . this government will invest in our NHS to tackle the GP crisis , because that be what hurt work people . when people be unwell , when people can not go to work and when there be crime in their community , that have an impact on business . it be false to say otherwise , and we can not continue have this debate . we be take a balanced and , in my view , reasonable position , which be why I will be vote for the Bill this evening . we raise taxis and we spend the money on thing that be good for society . we can not pretend that we can do good thing for society without raise the taxis to pay for they . like many Labour Members , I have a huge amount of experience of opposition . I have never sit on the Opposition Benches and I do not want to sit on they any time soon , but I have a huge amount of experience of the business of opposition , and I would gently offer some advice that I doubt will be take . you be go to have to do a lot well than this if you want to convince — [ interruption . ] sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker , I do apologise . the Conservatives will need to do a great deal to convince the british people that they have hear the lesson that be give to they in July . if they continue in this vein of listen to only one side of the conversation — the one that they want to hear — they might not like the answer they get . it be the job of any Government to grow the economy and grow job . the good way of deliver money for public service be to grow the tax base without have to increase taxis , so it be hardly surprising that the Chancellor wrap up her bad Budget as a growth Budget . unfortunately , when she unwrap it at the Dispatch Box , it be nothing of the kind . the Treasury ' s own analysis say that growth would peak at 2 % next year , and then fall for the rest of the decade . the OBR ' s analysis say that the Budget be inflationary . it be bad for the economy and it be bad for the business that we rely on to grow our tax base for public service . I turn now to public service , particularly health and social care . the Chancellor know — and know — that the increase in national insurance contribution will be devastating for healthcare , which be why she exempt the NHS , but that show an extraordinary lack of understanding of how healthcare be deliver in this country . the NHS directly deliver a part of healthcare that be free at the point of use , but much of the rest be deliver indirectly through contracting , via partnership such as GP practice , charity such as hospice , and business such as pharmacy , dentistry and social care provider . the NHS can not exist without those key healthcare service , none of which share in the exemption from the national insurance contribution rise . the chief executive of Hospice UK have say that that mean charitable income raise by hospice to the tune of £ 30 million will be take in national insurance contribution to fund the NHS , which do not properly fund hospice in the first place . the British Dental Association write to the Secretary of State to ask whether there have be an impact assessment of the effect of national insurance contribution rise on the finance of dentist . the answer be that no impact assessment have be do . the Government do not even understand the effect of their Budget and these national insurance contribution rise on healthcare in this country . for two local hospice just outside my constituency , Mountbatten Isle of Wight and Mountbatten Hampshire , which serve my constituent , the combined effect of these national insurance contribution rise and the pay rise for nurse , for which the NHS will not pay the hospice , be £ 900 , 000 of cost , with not a penny promise or deliver through the contract with the integrate care board . it be all very well for Labour Members to say that this Budget will deliver for the NHS , but that be not much good when it will put further pressure on GP practice , pharmacy , hospice , dentistry and social care . if those service crumble , the NHS will not be able to continue in its current form , so I urge Labour Members to press the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to get on with his reform to properly fund GPs , hospice , pharmacy and dentist before they have to make tough decision that will mean redundancy and job loss . rise — I have just calculate how to get everybody in before we run out of time , and I will have to drop the time limit to four minute . it be clear to everyone on this side of the House that the measure in the Bill be a vital step towards secure the long - term stability of the public finance . we be not prepared to continue with the fiction that no difficult decision be require to balance the book . unlike the Conservatives , this Labour Government be not interested in more decline , more austerity or force the poor in society to pay for the previous Government ' s mistake . the decision that we be take be not easy . increase employer national insurance contribution to 15 % be not easy . reduce the secondary threshold to £ 5 , 000 be not easy . and , of course , constituent be absolutely right to ask I why this be happen . well , that question would be well answer by the Conservatives . the Conservatives crash our economy , mortgage rate go through the roof , and billion of pound of taxpayer ' money be waste on a fail asylum system and on dodgy covid contract . they promise the victim of the infected blood scandal that they would be compensate , but they do not put a single penny aside for it . they promise the same for the sub - postmaster . they promise 40 new hospital , but they do not allocate anywhere near enough money to deliver they , and they be still pretend that they would not have give a single penny in pay rise to our public sector worker . the Conservatives spend the national reserve three time over in the first three month of this financial year , and all before call an election they expect to lose , so somebody else could clean up the mess . they choose to govern not in the national interest , but in their own interest . some conservative Members have be brave enough to come to the House today and remind we of their great legacy , but I have to tell they that 14 year of failure and a £ 22 billion black hole , leave our nation on the brink of bankruptcy , be their legacy . by make change to national insurance contribution , we will be able to provide the funding to public service that be desperately need , include , but not limit to , invest £ 25 billion in our NHS , recruit 6 , 500 new teacher and provide local authority with £ 600 million for social care . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , as I want to ensure everybody get in . in addition , we be committed to protect small business by increase the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 . we be bless in Leeds South West and Morley with hundred of small business , right across the constituency , from Queen Street in Morley , to Wortley , and back again to Ardsley . I can say to many of they that the change will mean that many small business will pay the same or less than they do now . we will not run away from the difficult decision — we back our country to succeed . give the obvious opposition of Conservative Members to the measure , I ask they , how will they pay for our public service ? perhaps I need to give way at this point . I serve on the Education Committee with the hon . Gentleman , and I wonder what he will say to people who work in the education sector , many of whom be low pay and run school that support teach assistant to work with child with special educational need and disability . they now face a big wage bill because of the measure the Government be introduce . will the hon . Gentleman address those point ? in the minute remain to I , I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that he need to have a word with the Leader of the Opposition . the simple truth be that she have welcome the positive spending plan that we have put forward in the Budget , but have reject every revenue - raise measure we have suggest . we be go to take the tough decision , include those set out in the Bill , to fix the foundation of our economy and restore our public finance . the choice be pretty clear : a Labour Government who invest in our country ' s future or a conservative party still obsess with fantasy politic base on save the party , not our country . the choice be clear , and I know which side I be on . since the change to national insurance be announce in the Budget , I have be contact by constituent from a whole load of different sector who have say how worried they be about the change . I have have deeply concerned GPs tell I about the impact the change will have on their already overstretch budget . local dentist , of whom there be already far too few , have say the change make it even hard for they to deliver treatment under the current NHS dental contract . small business owner , who , as we have hear , be the backbone of much of the local economy , especially in North Norfolk , be worry the change might push their slim profit margin into the red . I want to raise the plight of a very important part of the North Norfolk business economy : our small cultural venue . I hear recently from Debbie , who run the much - love Sheringham Little Theatre , which might be little in name but be big in impact . Sheringham Little Theatre have nurture the career of dozen of young theatre performer , as well as technician , writer and director . it be a fantastic venue to put on production , and be support by one of North Norfolk ' s most famous resident , the late and great John Hurt . as a register charity , Sheringham Little Theatre also provide volunteering opportunity that be vital to reduce social isolation and support the local community . the change in the Budget be a cause for serious concern to Debbie and her team . they have be able to secure fundraising in the past for exciting new project and capital investment , but now they will need to raise thousand of pound in donation just to keep the light on . even in commercial venue , the pressure of a blanket increase in employer national insurance be threaten job and entire venue . cromer pier be one of the most famous icon in North Norfolk , and be 2024 ' s pier of the year . even with a commercial operator , who have bring it from loss making to net revenue generating for the local council , these change risk shutter Europe ' s last end - of - pier theatre . the lack of protection for art and cultural venue be hugely demoralise for both those venue , and prevent they from make new investment and provide more opportunity locally . North Norfolk ' s creative industry be incredibly exciting and grow at pace . the loss of venue and organisation such as the Little Theatre would be a hammer blow for a blossoming sector in my constituency . our small cultural and art venue contribute so much to North Norfolk , both through the joy they bring with their event and through their contribution to our local economy . they be crucial to our tourism industry as well . unlike those on the Conservative Benches , the liberal Democrats be happy to share our alternative solution when it come to our concern with the Budget . rather than impose a blanket pre - profit tax such as this , why do the Government not try a tech tax , tighten up on tax haven that be still Crown dependency or disallow brand licensing as a deduction against profit by global corporation ? where we be once promise radical reform , we have end up with hope - crush , growth - stifle job taxis . it can not be fair that organisation such as Sheringham Little Theatre be force to struggle while billionaire tech baron such as Elon Musk and other continue to sit on great hoard of taxable revenue . I hope the Government will listen to the Liberal Democrats ’ proposal and go back to the drawing board to make their plan fair for everyone . unfortunately , the Bill punish small business , burden local authority and add even more strain to our health service . I will vote against it this evening . as a new Member of Parliament , I be look at the shadow Minister , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , when he be respond to the Minister , and try to figure out why he look so familiar . I realise that it be because he be Liz Truss ' s Economic Secretary to the Treasury ; the person who have to go out and defend Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget . I therefore wonder why this new conservative party lead by a new person be send out Liz Truss ' s Treasury Minister to respond to a Labour Budget that be mop up some of the mess create by she . when I realise that , it get I think about how much we should be listen to the conservative party . this be a party that , in its contribution today , have show no desire to learn a lesson from the election or listen to voter who be so damaged in their income and their life by the Government we have replace , but only a desire to play politic at its bad . the conservative party have do that rather than actually scrutinise what this government ' s Budget be intend to achieve . it be worth reflect on what have happen over recent year . the economy crash , mortgage be send through the roof and an early election be call to avoid the conservative party have to deliver the Budget . there be covid contract that cost this country million and a £ 22 billion black hole ; that be what this Government be have to respond to . as this be such an important topic , why be there few than half a dozen Back - Bench Government mps here to discuss it ? it be not important enough to get their Benches full ? I have literally just say that this debate should not be about party politic , but about the scrutiny of this Government ' s Budget . instead of ask question about the nature and substance of the Budget , the opposition be resort to party politic . [ interruption . ] as my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) say from a sedentary position , we could list debate such as the Grenfell Tower inquiry debate yesterday , during which Conservative Members be desert their Benches . the burden of tax have fall on work people for far too long under the Conservatives . work people have suffer in many more way , too : they have be unable to get the NHS appointment they want , the mortgage they want and all the service they should be entitle to . when I have knock on door in Bournemouth East and speak with thousand of people over the last two year , the overwhelming feeling have be of hopelessness . it be the feeling that nothing ever change in politic because there be a constant back and forth between our Benches about unimportant thing rather than a focus on what those people actually want . People want an NHS that will truly deliver . they want the 40 , 000 additional appointment a week . they want the billion pound that be be invest in SEND . they want the £ 600 million go into social care . they want the £ 22 billion go into our NHS to start to fix the problem that have be ongoing for 14 year . I say to Opposition Members that if they be dedicate to their constituency , if they care deeply about put our public service back on track , and if they care about an economy that grow so that we have private business support our investment in the public sector , they should be vote with the Government tonight . I be disappointed to see so many of they say that they will not be do so . we be the Opposition . you be the Government . we be the Government take decision in the national interest . the Conservatives be the opposition take decision on behalf of their party ' s interest . that be why , I be afraid , the Conservatives will not be come back into power any time soon . they be not prepared to listen to what voter want , they be not prepared to take the tough decision , and they be not prepared to come to the table , be constructive and try to put right the problem that they have create . we have a long road ahead to put our NHS our economy and our public finance back on track , but this be a Government with a historic majority and a historic mandate to serve our nation ' s interest . I call on those on the Opposition Benches — obviously not the Conservatives — to support this Government in what we be do , because , together , we can put this country back together . we have a mission - lead Government . I be not sure whether anybody know exactly what that mean , but we do know what the mission be mean to be : deliver for work people . but I be afraid that the Government have forget how work people become work people . it be the people — the other people — who employ they . all of we in this House want excellent public service , but it be only the Conservatives who understand that to get excellent public service , business need to generate the wealth . the Government have a bit of a " four leg good , two leg bad " mantra that see business as a cash cow to be milk to pay for the public sector . they have forget that fundamental dependency . they have even mess up the " four leg good , two leg bad " theory , because they seem to have forget that a very large part of what deliver our public service be people — people who be not directly employ by the public sector . let we take nursery as an example . we have have another mission this week on early year education , which I welcome , but it will be hamper in its delivery by this national insurance contribution rise . then there be the university . they receive a bonus of £ 390 million from a fee increase a couple of week ago , but they will be pay £ 400 million in extra national insurance contribution . I have also hear from many gps across my constituency in East Hampshire , who see the Government give with one hand and take away with the other . the Minister say that the Government will take care of this in the settlement for GPs , which be fine , but it should have come on top of what they should have be do for GPs anyway . Lord Darzi and the Secretary of State have be talk about increase the focus on primary care . we know how the Treasury work when it be make its spending allocation to Departments ; thing will be tuck in under that settlement , so we need to see it rise . how do the Government think GP practice plan ? here we be in December , and the new financial year start at the beginning of April . do Ministers not think that , in the national health service , general practitioner need certainty now about what be go to happen ? the wide point be this : the Treasury can reimburse GPs , but it can not reimburse the private sector . ultimately , there be no such thing as a tax on business . taxis can only ever ultimately fall on people . they fall on the owner of that business , the customer of that business , or the employee of that business . the analogy for the Treasury reimburse GP practice for their increase cost be the employee of a private company reimburse their employer for that cost . it be they who will ultimately pay . economist be unite in say that employer national insurance contribution be only ever , in the end , see in low wage or low employment figure . the Government talk about difficult decision , but difficult decision be the one that employer will be face with : do I cut down my wage settlement or do I let people go ? not more than half an hour ago , I meet a businessman from Northern Ireland whose firm employ 1 , 200 people . he say national insurance contribution will cost the firm almost £ 1 million a year . the cost will ultimately be pass on in its food price , which will rise by between 15 % and 20 % , and the ordinary man or woman on the street will pay for it . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that that be where the Labour party have get this wrong ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right . this be not some trivial increase that be easy for an organisation to absorb . while 1 . 2 percentage point may not sound like much , with the serious decrease in the threshold at which it start be pay , it be a lot of money . the cost of employ the average worker on medium earning go up by £ 900 . for a 21 - year - old on the legal minimum wage work full time , the cost go up by £ 770 . moreover , it be regressive because it will fall more harshly on people at the low end of the wage spectrum and on people who be part time . it can not be see in isolation ; it must be see alongside all the other thing the Government be do . of course , the national living wage have rise . that increase be a good thing in itself , but the effect compound with the other measure be take . two of the three volume employer sector in this country — retail and hospitality — be also see a massive reduction in the business rate relief they be get next year . when unemployment hit , young people be always hit first and most , and that will be true again . it will hit those furth from the labour market , those who need most help , those come back to work after a long period and those who be ex - offender . I sometimes wonder if minister talk to each other about the contradiction and irony of one of they produce a document call , " get Britain Working " while their colleague be hellbent on do the opposite . it be good to speak in this important debate . this be an issue of much importance , in part because it touch on trust in politic . we know from look at the dataset that trust in politic have fall to a record low in this country . People sadly do not trust politician any more to deliver on the commitment they set out in their manifesto and to bring the change necessary to improve our public service . that be the datum we can see , and we can see it because of the decision of the Conservative party . do the hon . Member not think that the fact the Labour party go into the last general election promising not to raise taxis on work people might be part of the problem ? we have stick to the commitment we make in our manifesto , and that be why the british people will see over the month and year to come that they vote for change and investment in our public service , and that be what this Budget make possible . when we come into power in July , we face a difficult economic inheritance . I wish we have take power in more benign circumstance , but Opposition Members will know that public sector debt have increase to 100 % of gdp — the same size as the economy — and trillion of pound , constrain our ability — [ interruption . ] they be chuntere from the Front Bench , but it be true that public sector debt increase to 100 % of gdp — a massive increase on the Conservatives ' watch — make it more difficult for we to manage the public finance in a sustainable way , which be what we want to do and what they fail to do . we also take over after 14 year of failure on productivity and wage growth . if wage have grow in line with the pre - financial crisis trend , family in my constituency and constituency across the country would not be £ 100 or £ 200 well off a year ; each worker would be £ 10 , 700 well off a year . on productivity , all the public sector wage increase that have be give since the Government have be in power come with no productivity request or increase . how do the hon . member square that circle ? I think we will see productivity increase in the NHS , because part of the reason that it have struggle for productivity in recent year be that it have not have the necessary investment , so doctor and nurse have not have the bed and capital expenditure that they need in their hospital . I have be to Barnet hospital in my Chipping Barnet constituency and speak to the chief executive of the trust . they be clear that what have happen nationally , and have filter through to their hospital , be that capital spending budget have be raid to fund day - to - day spending , and that have make it more difficult for the NHS to be productive . More bed and £ 3 billion for scanner and other capital equipment will make a difference to productivity in the NHS . [ interruption . ] conservative member know that that be the case . let we just go back to the inheritance that the Labour Government face . we have high public debt , low productivity and wage growth . our economy have also be hamper because the conservative party have make it much more difficult for we to trade with our near neighbour . that have be bad for competition and productivity across the country . I could go on about the economic inheritance , but I do not wish to make hyperbolic statement or overdo it ; we can just look at the fact present to the Labour Government . when the Conservative Government head by David Cameron be elect in 2010 , the circumstance that they face follow Labour ' s trashing of the economy mean that it take two and a half to three year to get the public on board . that stand in great contrast to what happen this summer , when Labour inherit good economic circumstance , with the economy grow and inflation down . in fact , have the electorate not be deceive ? the economy be not grow at a fast pace when we take over ; we be grow slow than five other G7 country in the quarter before the conservative party lose power . that be the truth . conservative Members can deny it if they want , and come up with a fancy way to analyse the economic statistic in order to claim that we be the fast - grow economy in the G7 , but in the final quarter before they lose office — and in 2023 — we be grow slow than five other G7 country . we be grow fast than other country in 2022 only because we be recover from the pandemic . they know that that be the case . I fear that , in their stance today , Conservative Members be again cover themselves in the pong of the Liz Truss Administration . that Administration make the mistake of not make effort to balance day - to - day public spending and tax increase . that be what cause interest rate to rise and the economy to be in much turmoil . the Labour Government be ensure that increase in day - to - day spending be match by increase in tax revenue — [ interruption . ] I say increase in day - to - day spending be be match by tax revenue . rise — I will give way . order . the hon . Gentleman have already take two intervention , and the clock will now continue to run for every subsequent intervention that he take , just in case he be not aware of that and want to take this intervention from Mr Hinds . maybe I will take further intervention when I speak in tomorrow ' s debate , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I know that many member still wish to speak . in my final 13 second , let I conclude by say that the risk for the conservative party be that it forget the importance of manage the public finance , which give we the economic stability from which growth can come . by vote against the Government , Conservative Members will make that more difficult , and will signal that they do not wish to have economic stability and growth . the Bill represent a major breach of the promise make by the Government when they stand for election . the previous speaker , the hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , be right : people should be cynical , and people be cynical about the way in which politics be sometimes conduct in this country . he talk about his amazement at the anger express from the Opposition Benches . I assure the House that , be the situation reverse — with the conservative party on the Government Benches , introduce measure that the Office for Budget Responsibility , the IFS and everybody else say would hurt ordinary work people — Labour Members would be incandescent with rage . that be the whole point . a promise be make : " we will not tax work people . " at the end of the day , when people have to pay for their good , their shopping and so on , it really do not matter to they whether their income have be reduce as a result of direct taxation be take out of their pay packet in the form of income tax , or whether it have be reduce indirectly by take the money from their employer . in turn , as the IFS , the OBR and other have say , that will impact on real wage . as the IFS point out , it will especially impact the real wage of the low pay — that be the whole point . we can play with word , but the truth of the matter be that a tax increase have be impose on employer , and the OBR say that in 76 % of case , the impact on wage will be feel by ordinary work people . that be a broken promise , no matter how we look at it . the Government ' s excuse have be that they will try to alleviate that impact . People have talk about different sector so far in the debate , and I be not go to go through all of they , but let we just look at two example . the first be small business . we be tell that they can deal with the impact because they be genius . what will they do ? they will increase productivity . funnily enough , the public sector be to be protect — the Government be not look for any increase in productivity there . we be tell that small business will find way of decrease their expenditure , but funnily enough , the Government be actually look for way of spend more money . they be spend £ 9 billion on a quango , great British Energy . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero come back from COP29 and tell we that the Government be now commit to give £ 300 billion away to foreign government for climate change , but he would not even tell we how much the Government be go to pay out to those government . for the nationalisation of the railway , again , there be an open cheque book . we be tell that there be no alternative . business have to find alternative , but the government happily spend the revenue that they be take . then , of course , the social care sector and GPs be tell , " go to the NHS and renegotiate your contract . " the NHS do not have to pay the national insurance rise itself — it be exempt . do we really believe that when the GPs and the social care sector go to the NHS and say , " we want to renegotiate our contract , " the NHS be go to say , " oh , you need money for national insurance ? there you be — take it . " all the excuse have be give today : we be tell that there be no money , but it can be spend on other thing . we be tell that the social care sector and GPs can renegotiate , and that the private sector will be inventive . let we see some invention by the Government , rather than broken promise . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to share the concern that my constituent and business in Chichester have raise with I since the announcement in the Chancellor ' s Budget that employer ' s national insurance contribution would be increase . first , I would like to acknowledge the Labour Government ' s inheritance from the previous Government , and recognise that tough decision need to be make to rebuild public service , especially our health service . the Liberal Democrats welcome the propose increase to employment allowance , but the blanket increase in the rate of secondary class 1 contribution across all sector be go to make thing hard for GPs , social care provider , charity and local authority in my constituency and across the country . those sector have have a tough time for year , struggle with rise energy cost and high interest rate , with thousand of care provider on the brink of bankruptcy , NHS dentist already deliver some NHS treatment at a financial loss , and charity already grapple with underfunded public sector contract . West Meads GP surgery be one of the small practice in Bersted in my constituency . it be look at increase cost of at least £ 25 , 000 , which will mean a reduction in staffing hour . the GP who write to I say : " this be a first and will certainly impact on patient care if not address . " the same can be say for Witterings Medical Centre , another practice that be already operate under extraordinary demand . the add cost will exacerbate strain in the system , because overstretched and under - resource GPs will lead to an increase in hospital admission , overwhelm nhs capacity at a time when it already can not cope . the Government ' s treatment of GPs as private entity exclude they from the employment allowance support , and if we do not fix the front and the back door of our national health service , the middle — our secondary care , our hospital — will continue to bear the burden . St Wilfrid ' s hospice echo these challenge , cite the inequity in exemption be grant to NHS service , but not to charity provide similar health - relate service . the hospice predict a bill increase of £ 175 , 000 . that would pay for four nurse , who could be out in the community provide care for the most vulnerable . the predict national impact of this rise on the charitable sector be £ 1 . 4 billion . while I be on the topic of charity , I would like briefly to mention Stonepillow , a charity that support individual experience homelessness and with compound need . it have see a doubling of demand since 2018 — it serve 1 , 000 client annually — and it report need to find an additional £ 150 , 000 every year to continue offer its service . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care talk of move the health model in this country from treatment to prevention and from hospital to community , but the increase in nic directly undermine the ability to do that , if GPs have to reduce their service , if more dentist move far away from NHS contract , if social care staff lose their job when their small and medium - sized care provider go bankrupt , and if community pharmacy , a key pillar in the NHS ecosystem , face spiral debt and struggle to keep pace with operating cost . in the interest of constructive opposition , I be not minded to bring problem without solution . the Chancellor could have choose to raise the money need through the much fairer tax change lay out in the liberal Democrat manifesto during the general election , such as the reversal of the conservative tax cut for the big bank , double the rate of gaming duty pay by online gambling service or a fairer reform of capital gain tax . if I have more than 10 second leave , I would give many other reason why I be unfortunately unable to support this Bill on Second Reading . I start by remind the House of a prescient analogy of Winston Churchill ' s : " for a nation to try to tax itself into prosperity be like a man stand in a bucket and try to lift himself up by the handle . " this national insurance increase and threshold cut be simply a tax on job in the private sector . it will result in less employment , few bonus , small pay rise and high price — and for what ? to fund a state that be out of control and show no regard for taxpayer ' money . that be exemplify by the Department for Work and Pensions , which hand out money like confetti , without the requisite discipline . the answer be to radically cut the size of the state and release the innate creativity of the british people . what we need be less state , less tax , less bureaucracy and more prosperity . will the Government accept full responsibility for the suffering that this tax increase will inevitably cause to our work people ? on Saturday evening , I be lucky to attend Sussex Chorus ' s performance of Handel ' s " Messiah " at St Andrew ' s church in Burgess Hill . there be a collection at the end for the St Peter and St James hospice , which look after many people in Mid Sussex . as I put my donation in the bucket , the lady hold the bucket thank I , and she tell I that her husband have spend his last day at St Peter and St James . when she realise that I be the local MP , she grasp my hand tightly , and say , " you have to do something about nic . " I say that I have be try to , and have be raise the matter in the Houses of Parliament , but have not be hear so far , I will raise it again today . our hospice and social care provider do hugely difficult , often invisible work . they look after the weak , the vulnerable and the dying , but these organisation be themselves even more vulnerable than they be as a result of the Government ' s propose change to employer national insurance contribution , announce in the Budget . that job tax jeopardise the quality and reach of the service that will be available in my constituency and across the country . the child ' s hospice charity together for short life estimate that the rise from 13 . 8 % to 15 % in April 2025 that be announce in the Budget will increase cost for child ' s hospice , which provide lifeline care to seriously ill child , by nearly £ 5 million annually . combine with inflation , fall local NHS and council funding , and uncertainty around the NHS child ' s hospice grant , this policy risk reduce or even close essential service . in the social care sector , MHA , which support more than 17 , 000 old people across 80 care home , 59 retirement community , and 43 community base hub , estimate that it will face an additional £ 4 . 6 million in cost in the first year alone . will the hon . Lady give way ? I would like to make progress . around 18 , 000 private social care provider operate in the UK . we must help they to help those in need , and we can not afford to put up more barrier for they . how can we expect those provider to survive if we impose high taxis on they ? this be not make the most of an opportunity for long - term positive change ; I be sad to say that it be squander it . the Government could have find well way to raise the necessary fund . they could have reverse tax cut for big bank , increase digital service taxis , or even reform capital gain tax to ensure that the wealthy pay their fair share . my liberal Democrat colleague and I have repeatedly urge the Government to exempt social care provider and hospice from the tax rise , and I do so once again today . let we do right by those who work tirelessly to support and protect our most vulnerable , and in do so , let we build a healthcare system fit for the future . government Members have talk about difficult choice . not take away the winter fuel payment from people , or vote to remove the two - child cap , might also have be difficult choice , but instead they have be easy target . this Bill add to those easy target . the Bill , present under the guise of fiscal responsibility , be a thinly veil austerity measure that will disproportionately burden Scotland and undermine our ability to deliver vital service to our citizen . the increase in employer national insurance contribution be tout by the Government as a necessary step to bolster public finance . however , close examination reveal the stark reality : the increase will lead to a significant shortfall in Scotland ' s public sector funding . we will be leave grapple with the fact that the UK Government undervalue the cost of the measure by at least £ 200 million . scottish Government figure , corroborate by independent analysis from reputable institution such as the Fraser of Allander Institute , paint a grim picture . the national insurance hike will cost Scotland more than £ 500 million , include a staggering £ 191 million burden on our already stretch NHS . that figure rise to an alarming £ 750 million when we factor in indirect employee in sector such as childcare , GP practice and social care — sector vital to the fabric of our society . in Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey , a local firm with a number of care home across the north of Scotland face an £ 800 , 000 bill . it provide vital service to the community . to give another example , a local dentist have say that the increase cost of employment as a result of the Bill may force they to go private to recoup those cost . finally , the Bill be a double whammy for GP practice . they face the national insurance hit , but by dint of be designate a public service , be not eligible for employment allowance . the UK Government ' s paltry offer of £ 300 million in Barnett consequential be simply not enough to bridge the gap , and it fail to account for Scotland ' s proportionally large public sector , which employ 22 % of the workforce , compare with 17 % in the UK as a whole . among other reason , that be because in Scotland , we already have a publicly own and manage rail service , and a publicly own and manage water service . the funding disparity be a clear indication that the UK Government have give scant consideration to the unique need and circumstance of Scotland . that include the disregard demonstrate in the winter fuel payment debacle , which expose a pattern of neglect , regardless of which party occupy the Government Benches . it be exactly this pattern of neglect and lack of understanding of Scotland by successive UK government that strengthen the case for scottish independence , and for our ability to take decision for ourselves , like every other normal country , on the delivery of public service and taxation that impact we . the impact of the Bill go far beyond mere budgetary concern . it will have a ripple effect across our economy , harm business , stifle growth and ultimately hurt the very worker it purport to protect . the Office for Budget Responsibility have caution that the increase will likely lead to low wage and high price ; effectively , the burden will be pass on to consumer , and the purchase power of hard - work family will be erode . we urge the UK Government to reconsider this damage Bill , to fully fund the cost of this tax hike to public service in Scotland , and to engage in a meaningful dialogue with the Scottish Government , so that Scotland ' s interest be protect . we have two remain back - Bench contribution . colleague who have contribute to the debate should consider make their way back to the Chamber before the wind - up . I rise to share my concern about the unintended consequence of this tax hike on small business , GPs , social care provider and farm business . the argument about the damage that the previous Government leave be well rehearsed , and significant effort be need to rebuild public service and repair public finance , but this measure will do just the opposite . as GPs and the vast majority of care provider be private , they will not benefit from the compensation that the Chancellor will give to the NHS and other public sector employer to cover the cost of this tax increase . langport surgery in my constituency tell I that it face an additional cost of £ 45 , 000 a year , due to the national insurance rise . it say : " at a time when general practice be face workforce shortage , high cost could make it even hard to hire and retain staff , directly impact patient access " to good - quality care . the impact on social care provider could also be severe ; six in 10 of the UK ' s care home bed be provide by company that could go bankrupt if they experience even a mild economic shock . I have be discuss these difficulty with Wincanton Cares , a support and advice group for people need care in south - east Somerset . it be concerned that care home closure may well happen , as the funding model be so precarious . I be also worried about the impact that the measure could have on small business , which be the foundation of the Government ' s growth agenda . in advance of Small Business Saturday , I have speak to many business in Glastonbury and Somerton , include Topline Glass base in Ilton . it describe the Budget as a triple whammy of increase nic , wage rise and business rate increase . the OBR have estimate that the increase to employer nic will reduce potential output by 0 . 1 % , while the cost to business will lead to low wage and profit . the Government should have instead listen to liberal Democrat call to raise money through fair tax change , such as reverse the conservative tax cut hand to big bank , increase the digital service tax to 6 % , double the rate of remote gaming duty pay by online gambling company , and fair reform of capital gain tax , so that the 0 . 1 % of ultra - wealthy individual pay their fair share . many farming and agricultural business will also be hit by this tax rise . in addition , farming business will now be subject to increase nic , far stretch their budget . the ceo of the Nature Friendly Farming Network have state that the increase in national insurance will be a big concern for business that rely on a large workforce to pick , process and package food . as farming yield very slim return , those add cost will likely be pass on to consumer , push up food price and disproportionately affect those least able to afford high - quality , UK - produce food . the likely increase in the cost of UK food would inevitably lead to a reliance on cheap import , particularly from country with low production and welfare standard , undermine UK farmer and potentially increase climate - relate harm elsewhere . drive down food security and push up price be damaging to national security . the Government have an opportunity to look again at these measure that damage british farming . if they will not , they will not be forgive . I be grateful for the opportunity to contribute to this important debate . I have previously raise in the Chamber the impact that increase employer national insurance contribution will have on GPs , dentist , pharmacy and care provider in my constituency of Eastleigh . I have also be contact by many owner of small business who be hugely concerned about the impact that change to employer national insurance contribution will have on their business . that include the early year sector , which play a crucial role in support work family and the wide economy . provider who operate on tight margin and with a limited ability to adjust income face unique challenge . for a sector that be already under immense financial pressure , this add burden feel short - sighted and risk undermine the stability of a service that family rely on so heavily . Crestwood pre - school in my constituency serve local family by provide care and education for child age two to five . as a charity - run pre - school , it be already stretch to its limit , despite huge fundraising effort . Clare , the manager of Crestwood , write to I explain how the increase in employer national insurance contribution will add ten of thousand of pound to its annual cost . those be fund that it simply do not have . I have also hear from Forest Footsteps Childcare in Chandler ' s Ford , another early year provider in my constituency . Erin , who open the centre in 2022 , be worried about how she will manage the extra cost . she calculate that the new national insurance plan for employer ' contribution along with the rise in the national minimum wage will cost she approximately £ 13 , 000 a year more . while she be show remarkable resilience , she tell I that some provider have be less fortunate and already close their door . the YMCA Eastleigh nursery and community centre have also share its concern . it tell I that the combined impact of these change will cost the nursery and community centre an extra £ 95 , 000 a year . this be a problem be acutely feel across the whole sector . these story be not unique . across the country , nursery , pre - school and childminder be warn that rise employer national insurance contribution couple with inadequate Government funding will lead to high fee for parent , reduction in staff pay and closure in those essential early year setting , which would not only harm work family but risk deepen the staffing crisis in the sector . what reassurance can the Minister give early year and childcare provider in Eastleigh and across the country that they will not be adversely affect ? raise employer national insurance be a tax on job that will hurt small business and essential service . the Government must reconsider their approach . the early year sector , primary care and small business be not staff by those with the broad shoulder . this weekend we have Small Business Saturday , a chance to celebrate the incredible work of small business , who do so much for our community . they need our support . the Government must think again and support work family . they must rethink this unhelpful policy . I call the shadow Minister . it be a great pleasure to wind up the debate on behalf of the official Opposition . I pay tribute to and thank all colleague from both side of the House for their contribution . I will try to touch on some of their point as I go through . just nine month ago , I open the Second reading of a conservative national insurance Bill that cut taxis for million of work people across the country . today , we have before we a Labour national insurance Bill that will take the tax burden to the high level in history on the back of work people . that be the stark difference that a Labour Government make , but it be not the change that people vote for . nine month ago , the Economic Secretary to the Treasury tell the House that the then opposition support our tax cut , but barely three hour later , she and her Labour colleague remarkably fail to vote for it and back up their word with action . now we know why : it be Labour ' s playbook to say one thing as loudly as possible and then do the exact opposite as quietly as it can . on the Government ' s tax policy , do my hon . friend think it be concern that the Chancellor today refuse to rule out further tax rise in future Budgets ? absolutely . we all hear what the Chancellor say at the Confederation of British Industry conference . it be remarkable that the Prime Minister will not back up her word , and even more remarkable that the Chancellor herself would not back up her word today at Treasury question . the british people see the Bill for what it be : the big broken promise of they all , and there be plenty to choose from . it be a good job the Chancellor have experience on a complaint desk , because , quite frankly , there be quite a lot come in at the moment — not least from the business community , as my hon . friend the Member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) highlight so well in his speech . before the election , the Chancellor embark on what she refer to as the " smoke salmon offensive " with british business ; now the election be over , she have drop the smoked salmon and be focus on just be offensive . today ' s Bill will introduce tax rise on work people in business that be never declare before the election . it be a double whammy , as the Federation of Small Businesses have say in Lincolnshire : it introduce not just the rate rise , but a reduction in the threshold . this tax be the only major tax that be pay exclusively by work people . it be a £ 25 billion tax rise on job . the OBR make it clear that by 2027 , 76 % of the total cost of this tax increase will be pass on to work people through low wage and high price , as the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) say in what I think be a very thoughtful speech for the SNP . as I say at Treasury question this morning , the OBR say this be a tax on work people ; the IFS say this be a tax on work people ; even the Resolution Foundation say this be a tax on work people . by anyone ' s measure — be in no doubt — this be a manifesto breach the public will not forget . that be clear . what be not so clear any more be what this Labour party stand for . the Budget be an attack not just on work people , but on the very low pay work people , accord to the IFS . this be a fundamentally regressive policy , leave many out in the cold and give business no choice but to freeze hire and freeze wage . it will hit other , too . it will hit the doctor and the nurse work in general practice and social care , as my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) set out in his speech . it will hit charity and voluntary organisation , with Marie Curie expect that it will cost the charity £ 3 million next year alone — all part of a £ 1 . 4 billion bombshell to hit all charity next year . it will hit hospice , homeless support group and disability charity , which be all warn they face reduce headcount and limit service . this be not what the british people vote for . be the hon . Gentleman concerned , as many of my colleague be , that the Government will not give the full detail on compensation for the non - core public sector activity that be the lifeblood of the NHS because , if they give they the compensation that they need , the net benefit from the tax would be so risibly small as to demonstrate that it be utterly pointless and a concoction that could come only from a dysfunctional Treasury like this one ? there be really nothing to add to that . the hon . Gentleman make that point in his speech and at Treasury question — it be a very important point . in just six month , we have hit the high tax burden in history . debt be up , with debt interest payment above £ 100 billion — for the first time ever — in every year of the forecast . today ' s Bill will result in low wage , high price and a tough employment market . I urge this government to reverse course , but I will not hold my breath . instead , I think I can predict what the Minister be go to say . she be go to say three thing when she stand up to speak . first , she be go to try to blame the conservative party — blame everybody else for this clear political choice . she will not explain the £ 8 billion on GB Energy — an energy company that will not actually reduce bill or produce any energy — or the £ 10 billion on public pay splurge that come with no reform on productivity , or £ 7 billion on rebrande the national infrastructure bank . perhaps if the government drop those pet project — which will not actually grow the economy — they would have a little more money and would not have to screw with small business and make people unemployed . secondly , the Minister will forget that she be in government and that I be in opposition . she will ask I what my party would do instead . to that , I simply say that we would fund the NHS well , but we would also reform it . would the shadow Minister increase borrowing or increase a different tax , or be there some public spending cut that he would like to announce ? I hope the british people be listen to this : none of those thing . I remind the hon . Gentleman , although he be not here , that NHS spending increase by 45 % in cash term in the last Parliament under a Conservative Government . the issue be not spend — the Labour party will never get this — but reform the NHS , as my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) say . it be about grow our economy fast than the Labour party would grow it , accord to the OBR , as my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) say . we would tackle the welfare bill — £ 12 billion of saving that we set out in government — and we would boost productivity , because if public sector productivity return to pre - pandemic level , £ 20 billion would be save . finally , the Minister will try to suggest that she be bring stability , even though business and consumer confidence have plummet ever since she and her colleague take office . let we remind ourselves of what she mean by stability . in just a few month , we have see a Downing Street chief of staff sack , a Cabinet Minister resign , a Back - Bench MP quit the party , key manifesto promise like cut energy bill by £ 300 completely drop , a delayed spending review , fiddle fiscal rule and , just this week , complete confusion about whether the Prime Minister will drop his economic growth pledge . it be all so predictable , yet so damaging to our economy . the Bill break labour ' s manifesto . we can not back it . we will not vote for it . we urge the Government to think again it be an honour to close the debate on behalf of the Government . when the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) lose his seat , he can work as my speechwriter , because he be right that I be go to say all the thing he say , but I will come on to that soon . let I start by thank hon . member for their contribution to the debate . there be some powerful speech , include from my hon . friend the Members for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mr Sewards ) , for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) , for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) , for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) , for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) and for read West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) . . before I come to the specific point raise in this debate , I want to reiterate the purpose of the Bill . our priority in the Bill be to restore stability to our economy , repair the public finance to fix our economy , and support long - term economic growth . the Chancellor recognise that to do that , the Government need to make difficult decision . that be why under the measure in the Bill , employer be be ask to contribute more . first , the Bill provide for a rise in the rate of employer secondary class 1 national insurance contribution from 13 . 8 % to 15 % . secondly , it provide for a decrease in the secondary threshold for employer from £ 9 , 000 per employee to £ 5 , 000 . thirdly , it provide for change to the employment allowance , to increase it from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 , and remove the £ 100 , 000 eligibility cap , so that the vast majority of employer benefit . the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) ask at the start of the debate where the extra money raise will go . let I remind he that the Government uncover a challenging fiscal and spend inheritance with £ 22 million of in - year pressure on public finance . we have take difficult but necessary decision to fix the foundation of our economy and to fix public service . the Budget provide additional day - to - day funding to stabilise and support public service . day - to - day funding will now grow at an average of 3 . 3 % in real term over this year and next , compare to 0 . 2 % under the last government ' s plan . a £ 200 million black hole in the Scottish Government ' s core finance , rise to £ 450 million when partner agency be include — what kind of stability do the Minister think that will bring to public service in Scotland ? if the hon . Gentleman be patient and listen carefully to my speech , I will come on to the Scottish Government , so he do not need to worry . the increase in employment nic raise revenue for the NHS and increase funding for contributory benefit such as the state pension , ease wide pressure on public finance . it be part of the Government ' s announcement of an additional £ 22 . 6 billion of day - to - day spending over two year for the Department of Health and Social Care , include the NHS . can the Minister tell the House which decision be hard , give an inflation - bust pay rise to union paymaster or cut the winter fuel payment ? the good decision that we have ever make in government be put money back into the pocket of work people . question be raise by the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) , the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) and the Liberal Democrat spokeswoman , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) . the hon . Lady ask a number of question about the NHS . the Government will provide support for Departments and other public sector employer for additional ER NICs cost only . that will apply to central Government , public corporation and local government . primary care provider — GPs , dentist , pharmacy and eyecare provider — be value independent contractor who provide nearly £ 20 billion worth of NHS service . every year we consult each sector both about what service they provide and about the money to which provider be entitle in return under their contract . as in previous year , this issue will be deal with as part of that process . I be grateful to the Minister for address my early question . rather than take with one hand and give back with the other , would the Minister support move to exempt all health and care provider ? the Department of Health and Social Care will confirm funding for general practice for 2025 - 26 as part of the usual GP contract process later in the year , through consultation with the sector . I understand the concern about the impact on the healthcare sector , but I can assure the hon . Lady that the Department of Health will continue to engage with GPs , dentist and pharmacist as part of the usual contract process , and that change in nic will be take into account in those discussion . let I now turn to the rant , I would say , rather than speech , from the hon . member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) . I be not quite sure what question he be get to , but he do ask very clearly whether the Chancellor understand the impact of the economic policy that she be make , and whether she would remain in her place . consider those question , I wonder what he think about economic as a whole , so I decide to look into he . not long ago , he say : " I have work with Liz Truss on many occasion … I believe that her economic position … and her parliamentary experience make she the good option to lead our country . " will the Minister give way ? with pleasure . I stand by the comment that I make . [ interruption . ] I do . I fundamentally believe that Liz Truss would be a well Prime Minister than the one we have now . if you will forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I feel that a lettuce would have well judgment . I turn to the devolved government . the Government will provide Departments and other public sector employer with support for additional ER NICs cost only . the funding will be allocate to Departments , with the Barnett formula apply in the usual way . the overall outcome of the Barnett formula be that all the devolve government will receive at least 20 % more funding per person than the equivalent UK Government spending in the rest of the UK . the Scottish Government will receive £ 47 . 7 billion in 2025 - 26 , include an additional £ 3 . 4 billion through the operation of the Barnett formula . the Welsh Government will receive £ 21 billion in 2025 - 26 , include an additional £ 1 . 7 billion through the operation of the Barnett formula . the Minister be be very generous in take a second intervention from I . I realise that the bar for credibility in the Treasury be very low right now , but she hoot and toot about the level of the block grant for the Scottish Government . in what universe do the block grant go down year on year ? of course it be high than in previous year . have she get the faint idea how it work ? I do have the faint idea how it work , which be why I be on this side of the House and the hon . Gentleman be on that side . that be why I be a Treasury Minister and he be not , and probably never will be . the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) speak about hospitality . without any Government intervention , retail , hospitality and leisure relief would have end entirely in April 2025 , create a cliff edge for business . [ interruption . ] I know the truth hurt , which be why the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) be chuntere from the Opposition Front Bench . our Government have decide to offer a 40 % discount to RHL property by introduce a cash cap of £ 110 , 000 per business in 2025 - 26 , and we have freeze the small business multiplier . this package be worth over £ 1 . 6 billion in 2025 - 26 and be aim at support the most vulnerable business , ensure that over 250 , 000 RHL property receive the full 40 % support . will the Minister give way ? I be reluctant to do so , but I will . I thank the Minister for give way . the OBR have to issue a correction to table 3 . 2 in chapter 3 of its report . originally , there be RDEL compensation for public sector employee and for adult social care . the correction be make to reduce the sum by £ 800 million , typically per year , for RDEL compensation just for public sector organisation . why do the correction need to be make , when be it make , and why be the OBR tell so late that social care be not get the support that it clearly need ? as far as I be concern , the current number be the correct one . the Minister mention business rate and the small business multiplier . will she confirm the continuation of small business rate relief for the rest of this Parliament ? that be under review , and we will come back to the hon . Gentleman soon . I turn to the question from the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) about childcare provider . she may be aware that I serve on the shadow Education team for a long time . I realise the value of early year provider , and I know that they drive economic growth and break down barrier to opportunity . we have commit to make childcare more affordable and more accessible , which be why we promise in our manifesto to deliver the expansion of government - fund childcare for work parent , and to open 3 , 000 new or expand nursery by upgrade space in primary school to support the expansion of the sector . however , I say to the hon . member that the Government inherit the bad economic circumstance since the second world war , and our first step must be to fix the foundation of our economy . in spite of the challenge , the Chancellor announce in her Budget significant increase to the funding that early year provider be pay to deliver Government - fund childcare place , mean that the total funding will rise to over £ 8 billion in 2025 - 26 . I be grateful to have have this opportunity to respond to the question that have be raise today . I also want to thank my official for their work on bring the Bill to the House . before I finish , however , I want to answer a question that the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) ask in his speech : what be the mission of this Government ? well , let I tell he . this government ' s mission be economic stability , restore our public service , a thrive workplace , make sure that we have a strong education system and strong public service , put more money in work people ' s pocket , and fix the foundation of our economy . the mission be to rebuild Britain . the Conservatives leave a mess , and we will do a well job than they . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Harriet Cross David Simmonds Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Christian Wakeford Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 186 , Noes 330 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Christian Wakeford Gerald Jones Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Harriet Cross David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 332 , Noes 189 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill ( pROGRAMME ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion five hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide that be attributable to — ( a ) increase the employment allowance for a tax year to an amount not exceed £ 10 , 500 , and ( b ) the repeal of subsection ( 4b ) to ( 4 g ) of section 2 of the National Insurance Contributions Act 2014 . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 4 to 7 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medicines that the draft Human Medicines ( Amendment ) ( Modular Manufacture and Point of Care ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 October , be approve . company that the draft Information Sharing ( disclosure by the Registrar ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 May 2024 , in the last Parliament , be approve . environmental Protection that the draft Producer Responsibility Obligations ( packaging and Packaging Waste ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 24 October , be approve . Income Tax that the draft Scottish Rates of Income Tax ( Consequential Amendments ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 14 October , be approve . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . petition - pimp Websites and pay for Sex I rise on the ninth day of the United Nations ' 16 day of activism against gender - base violence to present a petition on behalf of resident of the United Kingdom on commercial sexual exploitation . the minority of man who pay for sex be fuel a brutal sex trafficking trade , aid by pimp website that operate with impunity . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that demand from the minority of man who pay for sex be drive the prostitution and sex trafficking trade , and this sexual exploitation be be facilitate by pimp website that operate with impunity . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003025 ] international Day of Persons with Disabilities Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) today mark International Day of Persons with Disabilities — or disabled people , as we often refer to that group . language be important , so I will use both term . " person with disability " be understand internationally , but " disabled people " be often the preferred term in the UK . this year ' s theme be " amplify the leadership of person with disability for an inclusive and sustainable future , " recognise the important role that disabled people have to play in create a more inclusive and sustainable world . the refrain " nothing about I without I " emphasise the importance of disabled people not just passively participate in but actively lead decision - make process that affect their life . I implore the Government to commit to that . disabled people be define not by their limitation but by their boundless potential , talent and aspiration . across the globe , they be lead as innovator , creator , athlete , entrepreneur , educator and advocate , inspire we with their story and show we that a more inclusive world be not only possible but essential . yet despite progress , significant barrier remain , and the number of disabled people reach their full potential be still far too low . many disabled people — child and adult — still face discrimination , inaccessible environment , unequal access to education , employment and healthcare , and bad . I commend the hon . Lady . the word " champion " be often use , but she have be a champion for disabled people . More work must be do to allow those with disability to live , work and travel independently , include through enhance public transport with lift and ramp for wheelchair user to get on to plane and the tube . although this day rightly focus on the tremendous impact of disabled people in our society , it also highlight failure in society that must be rectify . do she agree ? the hon . member will not be surprised to hear I say that I absolutely agree with he . I will come to the issue on which we need to provide challenge . since 2010 , disability hate crime have increase almost sevenfold — that be absolutely shocking . not only be such challenge obstacle for individual but they limit society . as leader , we need to demonstrate that we want an inclusive society in which we all thrive , not just a minority . the social model of disability view it as a result of societal barrier rather than a person ' s impairment or difference , whether of mind or body . if we be truly serious about have an inclusive society , we need to address those barrier . thirty year on from the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 , that work be well overdue . this year ' s idpd theme be particularly significant as it encourage the international community , include the UK , to consider how to remove barrier to enable disabled leader to develop and thrive . I highlight in particular the good work of those at the National Federation of the Blind , who be on the estate today campaign on float bus stop . do the hon . Member agree that the Government need to ban float bus stop ? the hon . member — a fellow member of the Work and Pensions Committee — make a good point . I be sorry that I be unable to attend that event myself , but I will certainly give that matter some consideration , and I hope that the Government will , too . More than 16 million people in the UK have a disability — nearly one in four of we — and nearly half of all disability be acquire during a person ' s lifetime . in recognition of that , in 2009 the UK not only become a signatory to the UN convention on the right of person with disability , which include 40 article range from education and work and employment to the right to life , but enshrined disability as a protect characteristic in the Equality Act 2010 . we should be proud that we as a country have adopt that , but now it be about how we put it into practice , because we have unfortunately go backwards in many way . despite the important move that the then Government have undertake , the austerity bring in by the coalition Government in 2010 , and amplify by the Conservative Government in 2015 , not only restrict financial and other state support for disabled people — add further challenge to their life — but create a culture of fear , particularly for those reliant on social security support who be unable to work . all too often , disabled people be treat as workshy , with the shirker - scrounger narrative perpetuate in policy and practice and , unfortunately , also in our medium . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate on International Day of Persons with Disabilities . do she agree that a lot of the disability that we need to be aware of be hide disability such as autism , depression and other mental condition ? we do not see those disability directly , but we need to be aware of they , and to deal with issue such as unconscious bias that we sometimes come across . my hon . friend make such an important point — I absolutely agree . I talk about societal barrier and a social model of disability ; we need to recognise that disability can also be hide , so I thank my hon . friend for point that out . the reality be that most people , disabled or not , try to do the right thing , but as the Joseph Rowntree Foundation have show , if you be a disabled adult or a disabled child , your family be more likely to be live in poverty or destitution . thing become so bad that in 2016 , the then Conservative Government be investigate for have breach the UN CRPD . follow an investigation , the UK Government be find guilty in 2017 of systemic violation . as a UN committee spokeswoman declare , " the committee can confirm that some violation be grave , some other be systematic , and some be both : grave and systematic . " in particular , the investigate committee find that the right of disabled people to an adequate standard of living and social protection , to work and employment , and to independent living have be breach . I recently meet with an organisation call Deaf - initely Women , which support deaf and hard of hear woman in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire . it become apparent to I that the voice of those woman be not be hear in the way that service be design . I wonder whether my hon . friend might reflect on that as part of her speech . again , that be a very important point . we have see the decimation of service — social service , but also those in the charity sector — so my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that point . the investigate committee find that the Government have implement a policy aim at reform their welfare system , and that those reform have be justify in the context of austerity measure to achieve consolidation of fiscal and budgetary policy . however , the impact assessment conduct by the Government prior to the implementation of several of their welfare reform measure expressly foresaw an adverse impact on disabled people , but those assessment be ignore . evidence gather nationally by many disabled people ' s organisation , charity , academic and many more show the adverse and disproportionate effect of those welfare reform measure on person with disability . the impact on the health of disabled people be also document in a 2021 report assess the health effect of the Welfare Reform and Work Act 2016 . this should have be a wake - up call for the Government of the day , but unfortunately , even after the tragic death of dozen if not hundred of disabled social security claimant over the past five year , the UN committee publish a follow - up report in March this year in which it say that " no significant progress have be make in the state party concern the situation of person with disability address in the inquiry proceeding " . that report state that while some measure have be take to address the committee ' s recommendation , there be also " sign of regression in the standard and principle of the convention " . as my right hon . friend the Minister will be aware , the committee have ask for a report by March 2029 to update it on the implementation of those recommendation . I know that he take this issue very seriously , but despite the introduction of the Disability Discrimination Act 30 year ago , we have see other area of discrimination against disabled people . the Office for National Statistics conduct qualitative research that examine the experience that people with disability have with activity , good and service in the UK . it find barrier include physical access , restrictive building layout , inaccessible online service , poor information provision and inflexible design of customer service that do not consider accessibility for a broad range of need . our train network do not have level access , about which we hear Dame Tanni Grey - Thompson make a plea in the summer , when what she be put through be outrageous . when I have a presentation on the trans - Pennine route upgrade , I be absolutely shocked to find that the roll stock , which be yet to be commission , be not go to provide level access . it be absolute nonsense that that be not even in the design for that procurement , so we must do well . give that the new rolling stock will not be out until 2029 , I be hope there will be time for people to think again , because that be just not good enough . the difference in education outcome be also shocking . accord to the ONS , only a quarter of disabled people age 21 to 64 have a degree or equivalent as their high qualification compare with nearly 43 % of non - disabled people . in addition , disabled people be almost three time more likely to have no qualification than non - disabled people . disabled people be also less likely to have GCSE grade of C and high in comparison with non - disabled people . we know that disabled people do not have the same experience of UK school as their non - disabled counterpart , and that barrier exist for these child across the educational system . I remember do some work on this in my own constituency , and it be quite shocking to see the difficulty that disabled child face . the cost of living crisis have hit disabled people hard than the wide population . many disabled people have vital equipment that be expensive to run . the extra cost be estimate at over £ 975 a month on average . imagine if that additional cost be one that everybody have to face , because we would really feel the pinch . a survey carry out by Sense find that 85 % of people with complex disability be worried about this rise cost of living . if we look at employment , we need to remember that the disability employment gap sit at nearly 30 % , as it have for many year . accord to the ONS , there be 2 . 2 million disabled people who want to work but need support to get into work . disabled jobseeker can face barrier on seek employment , include from employer who believe that it be too difficult , risky or expensive to hire someone with disability . all organisation need to understand the challenge face by disabled jobseeker . do my hon . friend agree that it be unacceptable that only 7 % of people with a disability in our country be in pay employment when so many more want to work ? do she also agree that it be vital that , as the Government look to get more people into work , we have equal opportunity and equal access to the workplace for disabled people ? I absolutely agree , and that be the point I be try to make . there be a 30 % gap between non - disabled and disabled people in work , with so many — as I say , 2 . 2 million — who want to work and be able to work . we must do well on that , and I know my right hon . friend the Minister be absolutely committed to do so . on top of that , we also have the disability pay gap , at nearly 14 % , which again have increase . this be just not good enough . I be really reassure by the statement by the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on the " get Britain work " White Paper last week , with the recognition of what we need to do and how we need to change , and I look forward to see how this evolve . I be pleased that the Government will , for example , be introduce disability pay gap reporting , which will help lead the way in address the lack of disabled people in senior role . when I be write this speech , I remember when I introduce a ten - minute rule Bill on this point back to 2015 . again , let we try and get this go a little bit more quickly . shine a light on inequality in pay encourage organisation to examine critically their hiring , promotion and compensation process . again , we all know from our own experience how , if we report something that we find be not work correctly , we be more likely to change thing . I know my right hon . friend recognise that not all disabled people can work , and that we must provide appropriate , timely and adequate financial support for disabled claimant , without a punitive and burdensome application and assessment process . I look forward to the Green Paper on that in the spring . I be hearten by the Secretary of State ' s commitment to work with disabled people on that . she use the phrase " nothing about I without I " , which should reassure people . at its core , the theme of this year ' s International Day of Disabled Persons be all about leadership , and as a nation we be introduce legislation and policy to enable a new generation of leader with live experience of disability . as a Parliament we must continue to lead by example and ensure that we make the right accommodation and adjustment for disabled colleague . I be proud that nine of my parliamentary colleague have declare a disability in this House , but we have a long way to go to be proportionately representative of the population as a whole in that sense . nearly four year on from another Adjournment debate I secure , I close my remark by remember those disabled people who live in vulnerable circumstance and be let down by the then social security system . as I say early , there be dozen if not hundred of family affect by the death of a vulnerable claimant , and the book " the Department " by John Pring describe some of those tragic death . I have get to know the family of Errol Graham , Philippa Day and Jodey Whiting . Errol Graham be a grandfather with a severe mental illness who starve to death alone in his flat , month after have his benefit stop . he weigh five and a half stone when he be find . Philippa Day be a young mum who be find dead with a letter beside she from Capita , contract by the Department for Work and Pensions , refuse she a home assessment visit over her benefit . Jodey Whiting also have poor mental health and other complex need . she take her own life a fortnight after her benefit be wrongly cut off in 2017 . they be appallingly let down by the Government of the day who should have be there for they . early this year the Equality and Human Rights Commission finally launch an investigation into potential discrimination at the Department for Work and Pensions through failure to protect claimant with learn disability or severe mental illness . I pay tribute to the family , charity , organisation , and individual who constantly push on that issue to keep pressure on the ehrc to act . as Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , I be pleased that we have re - open the inquiry into safeguard vulnerable claimant , which be pause due to the general election . although the Government have change , and with they have come a change in attitude , the Department ' s failure over the last 14 year must be fully examine to ensure that no more vulnerable claimant die . I urge member to reflect on the past treatment of disabled people , and look ahead at create a welfare system that , like our NHS , be there for all of we in our time of need . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) on secure this timely debate , continue her long - stand record , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say , as a champion for disabled people in Parliament . I be look forward to engage with she regularly as Chair of the Committee , include on the safeguarding work that she rightly highlight . I agree with she : my Department need to drive disability inclusion across the whole of Government , remove barrier , and deliver access and inclusion to disabled people across all area of everyday life . on Saturday I be fortunate to meet nine - year - old Alfred . Alfred have cerebral palsy , and his parent fight endlessly to get he the support he need and be entitle to . he be determined to walk one day , and he recently take his first step . People can follow his progress on his Team Alfred Facebook page . will the Minister meet I , Alfred , and his parent to hear of their struggle and of how the system need to change to make thing fair for Alfred and other like he ? I be pleased that my hon . friend have meet her constituent , and of course I would be glad to meet she , her constituent and his parent . let I set out some of the step that we be take towards our goal . first , we be work hard to provide well support for disabled people who want to work . my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth rightly refer to the " get Britain work " White Paper , publish last week , through which we be determined to tackle that stubbornly large disability employment gap that my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife refer to . we will overhaul jobcentre . we want work , health and skill plan for every area , bring together jobcentre , college , the NHS , local charity and other in each area to equip disabled people for the opportunity there . we will set up a disability employment panel so that we can consult properly with disabled people and their organisation as we firm up our plan for well employment support . as my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth say , the refrain be , " nothing about we without we . " the White Paper also announce an independent review , head by Sir Charlie Mayfield , who use to run John Lewis , on how the Government and business can provide well support at work for people with disability and health impairment . I confirm to my hon . friend that we fully recognise that some people , through ill health or disability , will not be work , and we will ensure that they have the support that they need , recognise the extra cost that she have highlight . I congratulate my friend , the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , on secure this important debate . Keith , a constituent of mine , be a member of my life my Choice , a self - advocacy group in Oxfordshire . its job be to bring the voice of disabled people to mps and into Parliament , so that they be part of the debate . he want I to advocate on his behalf for high - quality adult social care . that allow he to play the full part he could in our community . the Minister would be welcome to come to Oxfordshire to meet he . it would mean the world to the group . what do he have to say to Keith about adult social care ? the hon . member ' s constituent raise an important point . indeed , I be press on that point early today by Peter White in an interview that will be broadcast tonight . our ambition be for a national care service . that be what we be work for , with a long - term plan that sit alongside our long - term plan for the NHS . her constituent be absolutely right to press we to deliver on that goal . we fully recognise that we need to adequately support people through the benefit system , but we know that many of those who be out of work through ill health or disability would , as my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth say , love to be in a job . at the moment , they face insuperable barrier that prevent that , include at time the benefit system . it be tough to bring up a family on universal credit . if someone can persuade my Department that they be too sick to work , they will receive some extra cash , but then no help at all to return to work . the system should not work in that way , and that be what we be determined to change . the Minister talk about barrier ; one significant barrier that people with disability face be discrimination . some people who have protect characteristic have the full force of the law behind they when they be discriminate against , but my concern be that people with disability do not necessarily have that and have to go through the civil court system . do he believe that be right ? I be glad to be able to tell the hon . Gentleman , who raise an important point , that in the race and disability equality Bill , which my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth refer to , we will deliver on our manifesto commitment to disability pay gap reporting for large employer . we will also place the full right to equal pay for disabled people explicitly on the statute book . that will be an important step forward in address the concern that the hon . Gentleman express . that right be implicit in the Equality Act 2010 already , but we will put it explicitly on the statute book . early today , I visit Google ' s impressive accessibility discovery centre at King ' s Cross to look at the late advance in assistive tech . in our forthcoming Green Paper , I want we to look at what more we can do to support access to assistive technology , which can increasingly support disabled people in work . our manifesto commit we to champion the right of disabled people , work with they . I have start to meet regularly with a range of disability group , include : the Disabled People ' s Organisations Forum England , which be make up of member from more than 40 organisation lead by disabled people ; the Disability Charities Consortium , which include nine of the big national disability charity ; and our regional stakeholder network — nine network across the country of member of the public who be willing to use their live experience to improve the life of other disabled people in their area . I also meet the Government ' s disability and access ambassador , senior business leader who encourage improvement to the accessibility and quality of service for disabled people across 20 sector , from advertising to university . we support the British Sign Language Advisory Board , which be set up in the aftermath of Rosie Cooper ' s British Sign Language Act 2022 . we will shortly publish the 2023 - 24 annual British Sign Language report , which I think be the second such report since the Act be pass , describe what department be do to promote and facilitate the use of british Sign Language in their public communication . early this year , the equality hub in the Cabinet Office be replace with the Office for Equality and Opportunity , which will deliver our commitment to break down barrier , boost opportunity and put equality at the heart of all the Government ' s mission . I want to work with other Departments across Government , so that disabled people get the support that they need to overcome the daily barrier that they face . float bus stop be an important issue that we need to reflect on and work on across Government . I be pleased to announce today the appointment of new lead Ministers for disability in each Government Department . they will represent the interest of disabled people and champion disability inclusion and accessibility in their Department . I will chair regular meeting with they and encourage they to engage directly with disabled people and their representative organisation as they take forward their departmental priority . I look forward to this new group of lead Ministers for disability together drive real improvement across Government for disabled people . my focus as Minister for Social Security and Disability be primarily on domestic disability policy , but I make the point that I be also responsible for UK implementation of the UN convention , which my hon . Friend refer to — the convention be extend to Bermuda to a few week ago — underline the Government ' s commitment to protect and promote disabled people ' s right across the UK and around the world . a great privilege of my job be to attend the Paralympic game in Paris in August , which be a fantastic event . early today , I attend the launch of the strategy of the Activity Alliance , which bring together disability sport organisation around the country . in its new strategy , it highlight the benefit for society of disabled people be able to be more physically active . one of the thing that they want to talk to I about be remove the barrier in the benefit system that sometimes make that extremely difficult . I very much congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth on bring forward the debate . I be delighted that we have have good attendance in the House this evening . I look forward to work with she and other member to ensure that disabled people have the power , the right and the opportunity that everyone else do . question put and agree to . House adjourn .