Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Water Sector reform : consultation what step he be take to consult the public on reform to the water sector . what step he be take to consult the public on reform to the water sector . I start by acknowledge , on VE Day , the debt that we all owe to that great generation who sacrifice so much for our freedom . we will remember they and their sacrifice forever . the Independent Water Commission , lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe , will make recommendation to transform our water system and clean up our waterway . the recommendation will form the basis of further legislation to fix our break water system . a public call for evidence that run for eight week and close on 23 April receive a very high number of response . those will be share in detail when the commission publish its recommendation . Sir Jon and the commission have hold more than 130 meeting , include with regulator , environmental group , campaigner , investor , water company and consumer body . Engagement will continue ahead of the commission ' s recommendation to the Government in a few week . I echo the Secretary of State ' s initial comment . South Shields have a long - stand problem with sewage be dump in the sea at Whitburn . just this week , Little Haven beach be hand a brown flag , and myself and local campaigner be completely feed up . the Environment Agency , Ofwat , Northumbrian Water , the council and the last Government all completely ignore our concern . we have already request a meeting with the Water Minister , and I hope she will confirm today that the meeting will happen very soon . I congratulate my hon . friend on her tireless work to represent the concern of people in South Shields about those terrible problem with water pollution . of course , my hon . Friend vote for the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , which have give the regulator many more power , include the power to ban undeserved multimillion - pound bonus . I be sure she will be interested to read , as will I , the finding from the Independent Water Commission lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe when they come forward in a few week ' time . as we act to protect our river and waterway from pollution , regulation will be important . the Environment Agency ' s resource be decimate under the Conservatives . how will the 2025 Act give the Environment Agency the power it need to hold pollute company to account ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the previous Government cut resource for regulation in half , and that be one of the way water company be able to get away with so much pollution . we have change the law to allow regulator to recover prosecution cost so that they can carry out further prosecution and stop those who have be pollute our waterway . can I make an appeal to the Secretary of State , and indeed his whole Front Bench , not to make farmer a scapegoat in any water reform ? clearly , where farming and farmer be involve in bad practice , they should be penalise , but social industrialist , other employer , and indeed those in the public sector , might also pollute river . water be a critical part of the food supply chain and agriculture . farmer look after the environment on all our behalf — in the right way most of the time . my appeal to the Secretary of State be to please get the National Farmers ' Union and farmer involve and not let they become scapegoat . I of course agree with the right hon . member . we be support farmer , many of whom be affect by very severe flooding recently , with the farming recovery fund . I be engage constantly , and will be again today , with the National Farmers ' Union about those issue and many other . by 2050 we will need more than 4 , 000 additional megalitre of water a day , with rise temperature result in a fivefold increase in drought risk . that be concern news for farmer in Glastonbury and Somerton , give the necessity of water for livestock and crop . what step be the Secretary of State take to consult farmer about reform to the water sector , and do he know how important water be to food production ? we recognise the importance of that point . the hon . Lady will be aware that , at the close of the price review process , we secure £ 104 billion of investment now and over the next five year to improve water infrastructure and ensure that we get water to where it need to be . we have also increase flooding funding so that we can take the water away from where it should not be . all of that will support food production as well as many other sector of the economy . Monitoring Sewage overflow : Scotland what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on good practice on monitoring sewage overflow . official and I continue to maintain regular engagement with the Scottish Government on many issue . while sewage overflow monitoring be a devolved matter for Scotland , we continue to share good practice wherever appropriate . the SNP Government should follow this Government ' s lead and introduce robust legislation to clean up their waterway . the beautiful beach of my constituency be mar by sewage - relate debris . in Scotland , under the SNP , we do not even properly monitor sewage overflow . meanwhile , in England , the Labour Government be make great stride to improve water quality — how I wish we have that in Scotland . will the Secretary of State commit to work as constructively as possible with his counterpart in the Scottish Government so that they can learn from here how we can improve water quality in Scotland ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for highlight the pollution and sewage on beach that so concern his constituent . it be deeply disappointing that the SNP Government in Edinburgh be not follow the UK Government ' s lead in tackle sewage pollution . I agree with my hon . friend that his constituent , like mine , and everyone else in Scotland and right across the UK deserve to enjoy sewage - free lake , river and beach . sadly , that do not seem to be what they be get from the SNP . my constituent in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton have be subject to an enormous increase in their water bill . will the Secretary of State reassure the House that his water review will seek way to prevent the cost of water company ' mismanagement be pass on to their customer ? I be sure that the hon . Lady will be reassure to hear that the Government have ringfence money that be earmark for investment in water infrastructure so that it can no long be divert for payment on bonus and dividend . if water company attempt to do anything of the kind , the money will be refund to their customer through a discount on their bill . water Bills : limit increase whether he be take step to limit increase to water bill . I add my voice to all those pay tribute to the great generation as we all remember VE Day . I know that many of we will be travel back to our constituency to join in celebration up and down the country . it be no wonder that the public be angry about pay the price for conservative failure . by allow water infrastructure to decay on their watch , the previous Conservative Government not only fail to ensure proper regulation of the industry but drive up cost of essential repair , result in increase bill for customer . while I can not undo the damage of the past , I can ensure that it never happen again . that be why fund for vital infrastructure have be ringfence by this government so that it can never be divert for bonus or dividend . Roberto , one of my constituent , have see his water bill go up by nearly 45 % in the last two year , and other constituent have contact I to say that their bill have nearly double in that time . I be pleased by what the Minister say about hold the previous Government to account for their failure to invest in infrastructure . what more can the Government do to hold Thames Water to account for its failure to invest in infrastructure , its poor service and these rip - off charge for consumer ? Roberto be right to feel angry about his bill increase , the past performance of water company and the toothless regulation under the previous Government . we have already take action to deliver our manifesto promise to hold water company to account , ban unfair bonus and introduce criminal liability with up to two year in prison . we have also create the water delivery taskforce to ensure that all water company , include Thames Water , deliver on their promise infrastructure improvement . the Government will always support those struggle with their water bill . indeed , this Labour Government and water company be more than double the social tariff support over the next five year . what assessment have the Minister make on the cost of water bill from increase to regulation 31 laboratory testing capacity ? I write to she in December about that and she reply in January . I be thankful for her answer , although it be slightly on the complacent side because she say that regulation 31 do not cause a problem to water quality just now . that be true , but the industry be burn down its asset to chemical and equipment that have be regulation 31 - tested , so a problem be come . what assessment have the Minister make of when the solution will be deliver , and what effect will that have on water bill ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his important question . everything relate to regulation of water be support and look at through the Drinking Water Inspectorate , which carry out an assessment to make sure we have the good water quality in the whole country . if he require any further detail , he be welcome to write to I again and I will make sure I find it . fishing Quotas what plan he have for future fishing quota . on VE day , it be important that we remember the huge contribution make by fisherman , fishing community , farm worker and agricultural worker during the last war to keep the country feed . later today , I shall unveil a plaque to the member of the Women ' s Land Army , one of whom be my aunt , Jean Mead . they make a fantastic contribution during that period . we negotiate a range of fishing quota , and any future quota will be agree only if that be in the national interest . I be pleased that we be engage closely with industry , trialle new method to shape future allocation that will both protect stock and support community . a recent poll by the Scottish Fishermen ' s Federation show that 87 % of scot believe the UK should control access to our fishing water . two - third of seafood land in the UK come into Scotland and it be vital to our economy and to many of our coastal community . will the Minister show the House and rural and fishing community across the country that the Prime Minister will not negotiate away any control of our water during his EU reset later this month ? I thank the hon . Lady for her important question , and I recognise the importance of the scottish fishing fleet and its contribution . she will have to wait a little long to hear the full detail of the outcome of any negotiation , but I have to remind she that the sense of betrayal across fishing community come under her Government ' s watch . Surrey Hills National Landscape what recent progress he have make on the Surrey hill national landscape — area of outstanding natural beauty — boundary variation project . on this 80th anniversary of VE Day , I pay tribute to the city of Coventry , which suffer so grievously in the blitz . the commemoration be mark at the old and new cathedral with the lighting of the torch for peace , a brilliant initiative from the Commonwealth War Graves Commission to mark the contribution of my city to the war effort . Natural England ' s work to consider the Surrey hill national landscape boundary variation have reach the conclusion of the second statutory consultation phase . the response receive will be complete shortly and the analysis of those and the result will be publish in early summer . on VE day , I remember the role of Dunsfold aerodrome in my constituency , which play a vital role in the battle of Britain . I thank the Minister for her response . she know that the propose expansion of the Surrey hill national landscape will have a huge impact by improve biodiversity and natural protection in village such as Dunsfold , Tongham , Bramley , Wonersh and Shamley Green in my constituency . before she make the final decision on whether to go ahead , will she spare the time to meet I so I can explain to she just how important the expansion be to my constituent ? I be always happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman . this and the Yorkshire wold be under active consideration , as I be sure he be aware . there be a legal process to be follow ahead of that , but I know his constituency and will be very happy to meet to discuss the matter far . flooding : protect Vulnerable Communities what step he have take to help protect community vulnerable to flooding . after 14 year , the Conservatives leave our flood defence in the bad condition on record . we be invest a record £ 2 . 65 billion in a thousand project to well protect 52 , 000 property by March 2026 . follow the recent storm season , serious flooding damage the foundation of Radyr cricket club and expose electrical cable , which force the club to close and cancel practice until the site be make safe . the club be also situate next to important electricity infrastructure , which mean up to 930 customer could be put at risk of disruption . I have be work with Councillor Helen Lloyd Jones to try and find a way forward between National Grid and Natural Resources Wales to establish who will take responsibility for secure the river bank and the electricity infrastructure . unfortunately , we be at an impasse , and my constituent continue to be vulnerable to further flooding . will the Minister meet I to establish what the UK Government can do to try and help break that impasse before the next storm season hit ? I be sure they have get a meeting already . I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue , and I be sorry to hear about the issue his constituent be face with flooding — I know at first hand how disruptive and awful flooding can be . as I be sure he know , flooding be a devolved matter in Wales , but I would of course be happy to work with he and to facilitate the meeting that he request . next month , a planning application for a biodigester near Haverhill and Withersfield in West Suffolk will be decide . it be the wrong location for many reason , not least the risk of flooding as the propose site be on flood risk zone 3 land . what be the Government do to prevent development on land susceptible to flooding ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . of course , the national planning policy framework be clear that where development in area at risk of flooding be necessary , local planning authority and developer should ensure that the development be appropriately flood resilient and resistant , safe for the development ' s lifetime and , importantly , will not increase flood risk elsewhere . we be also look at other measure , such as sustainable urban drainage system , to be include in planning as well . I call the shadow Minister . on the 80th anniversary of VE Day , I thank those who fight for our and Europe ' s freedom and , indeed , those who work our land and keep our nation feed . our peatland store 26 time more carbon than forest . they improve water quality and protect community up and down the UK from flood . the Nature Minister rightly call peatland our " country ' s Amazon rainforest " and launch a consultation to protect they . she be right , because once they have be destroy , they can never be replace . at the very same time , the Energy Secretary plan to rip up 2 , 000 hectare of protect peatland on historic land in West Yorkshire for a vast wind farm development , open up community to flood and destroy the peatland that Labour say it want to protect . how can the Government claim to be protect our irreplaceable peatland when the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be actively consider destroy one of our most environmentally important landscape in the country ? I pay tribute to the hon . member ' s ability to weave a question for the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero into a question on flooding . he will have hear from the Nature Minister how important peatland be and how essential they be for this country and hear our commitment to protect they . foot and Mouth Disease what step he be take to help prevent foot and mouth disease enter Northern Ireland . we have discuss this serious issue in the Chamber before , and I know how seriously member on both side of the House take it . the Government make it an absolute priority to protect farmer from the danger of this awful threat . the Government have step up measure to prevent the spread of foot and mouth disease follow confirm case in Slovakia and Hungary . import into Northern Ireland of live animal and susceptible meat product be prohibit from within the restriction zone surround the affected premise in Hungary and Slovakia . I join in the Secretary of State ' s word on VE Day , especially regard Northern Ireland ' s contribution to our armed force and through the armament we supply . when I contact the Agriculture Minister in Northern Ireland about his responsibility , he actually tell I that the issue no long sit within his ministerial responsibility , but come directly under the control of the Environment Secretary . what practical step be the Minister take to protect Northern Ireland farmer , especially in regard to the recent announcement of a case of african swine fever on 2 May in Slovakia , within the same geographical area as those foot and mouth outbreak ? we work closely with the Minister in Northern Ireland for exactly the reason that he would expect . we take this extremely seriously . there be a range of threat in Europe , and that be why we have not only put in place the long - establish and well - trialle measure , but add additional protection measure to ensure that we be properly protect . farmer in Northern Ireland who fear foot and mouth , and even dog owner like I , rely on good veterinary support , but this be no long the world of James Herriot ; a number of large company dominate the market . the Competition and Markets Authority say that remedy be need . do the Minister agree , and will he commit to review the Veterinary Surgeons Act 1966 , which be clearly no long fit for purpose ? my hon . friend make an important point . I can assure he that I and Baroness Hayman , who lead on this in the Department , be very well aware of the recent report and the antiquated nature of the legislation . we will come back with proposal in due course . nature - friendly farming whether he plan to improve support for nature - friendly farming . the hon . Lady and I have discuss these issue before . I know that she share my passion for achieve the transition to the nature - friendly farming that we all want . the Government be invest £ 5 billion in farming over the next two year — the high budget for sustainable food production and nature recovery in our history . through a range of measure deliver through the Government ' s environmental land management scheme , we be support farmer to implement nature - friendly farming practice . we now have more farmer than ever in nature - friendly farming scheme , and reform in the sustainable farming incentive will target fund fairly and effectively towards food , farming and nature priority . we will announce further detail later this year . on behalf of the Green party , on this special day of commemoration , I join colleague from across the House in pay tribute to all those who sacrifice so much to resist and defeat fascism 80 year ago . I thank the Minister for his response . we have indeed discuss these issue before and will continue to do so , I be sure . at the weekend , I spend time on two farm in my constituency — at both I meet group of farmer , include member of the Nature Friendly Farming Network , who tell I of their huge frustration at be let down by the Government ' s policy on farming and the lack of support . they recognise how vital farming be , include the transition to nature - friendly farming , for this country ' s food security , nature protection and climate action . do he agree with the farmer in my constituency about how vital the transition to nature - friendly farming be for those issue , and will he give we a date for when he will introduce such policy — order . we have a lot to get through today — come on . I be always interested to hear reflection from farmer . I have speak to other member of the Nature Friendly Farming Network who be very pleased with the progress be make , but of course we want to go fast and far . we have over 50 , 000 people in the scheme and more money be be spend than ever before . we must recognise the important progress be make . avian Influenza what step his Department be take to help prevent the spread of avian influenza . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise this extremely serious issue . to prevent the further spread of disease and manage the risk of avian influenza , DEFRA and the Animal and Plant Health Agency have implement well - establish outbreak structure to control and eradicate disease , restore normal trade and support recovery in local community . avian influenza prevention zone be in force across the UK . to far protect farmer and help community , we be currently invest £ 208 million in the future of the biosecurity lab at Weybridge . do the Minister agree that avian influenza remain an existential threat to the poultry industry , and — now that the French have decide to vaccinate their duck — will he agree to the National Farmers Union request that we introduce the vaccination of seasonal turkey in order to protect the entire industry ? as ever , the right hon . Gentleman make a well - inform point . vaccination have be consider for some time . there be trade issue , but as he say , the fact that the French be change their position be useful . the Government be commit to explore option for vaccination , and a cross - government and industry avian influenza vaccination taskforce have be establish . it publish an initial statement on 7 March and will report more fully this summer . I call the shadow Minister . avian influenza , sadly , be still very much with we , have devastate both wild and domestic bird in recent year . with bluetongue still here , african swine fever on our doorstep and , alarmingly , foot and mouth outbreak this year in Germany , Hungary and Slovakia , we face significant threat to our biosecurity . disease surveillance , vaccination and control be crucial , centre with the Animal and Plant Health Agency , which I thank in these challenging time . when will this Government finish the work that we conservative start when we commit £ 1 . 2 billion in 2020 to redevelop the APHA headquarters in Weybridge ? labour ' s repeatedly re - announce £ 208 million be a start , but when will it commit the furth £ 1 . 4 billion for this critical national infrastructure , for the sake of UK agriculture and our national security ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his word and his praise for the APHA . these be extremely important subject . we face a range of threat . that be why the Government have increase security in term of personal import through the short strait in particular . on his point about Weybridge , we have have this discussion before . there be a major programme under way , which will take a number of year . it be already a world - lead facility , and this Government be commit to provide the funding that Weybridge need to do its job . we be absolutely committed to that , which be why we have announce £ 208 million this year . climate Resilience plan if he will publish update climate resilience plan . the Government be commit to strengthen the nation ' s resilience to climate change . we be develop strong climate adaptation objective and improve the framework for action . with the effect of climate change already be feel , the Institution of Civil Engineers and other have urge the Government to prioritise infrastructure resilience . follow the Court ruling on the third national adaptation programme , the Government pledge to strengthen the approach , but the Climate Change Committee call this " ineffective " . when will the Department publish its update plan , and how will it strengthen they ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his important question . of course , we welcome the Climate Change Committee ' s assessment . the Government recognise the need to go far and fast to prepare for the impact of a warm world . for example , we be already take active step to include climate adaptation in our flood programme . for the first time , the Environment Agency ' s flood risk modelling integrate potential impact of climate change on flood and coastal erosion risk . the investment of £ 2 . 65 billion into maintain flood defence will help to well protect 52 , 000 property by March 2026 . fly - tip what step he be take to tackle fly - tipping . under the previous Government , fly - tipping skyrocket by 20 % , leave community bury under an avalanche of rubbish . this government be clear up their mess , tackle the waste cowboy , close the loophole that allow waste crime to flourish and clean up Britain . we will hunt down the fly - tipper with the late technology , include drone and mobile CCTV , introduce new power to seize and crush vehicle and increase prison sentence to up to five year for those transport waste illegally . I thank the Minister for that answer . I recently have the pleasure of meeting with the West Lothian Litter Pickers , who be do so much in my Livingston constituency to reduce the cause and symptom of fly - tipping and litter , but it be scandalous that their work be need . in Scotland , the late figure show that only 1 . 2 % of fly - tipping incident have result in a fix penalty notice and a mere 0 . 2 % in a criminal prosecution . do the Minister agree that , in sharp contrast with this UK Labour Government , who be take a zero - tolerance approach and crack down on fly - tipping , the Scottish Government ' s record in this area be , quite frankly , rubbish ? I be sorry to hear that the SNP Government be not take firm action , but perhaps where we have lead the way , they would like to follow . I congratulate West Lothian Litter Pickers and pay tribute to keep Britain Tidy , whose great british spring clean , back by the Daily Mirror , help to tackle the 30 million tonne of litter discard on our street each year , include 5 billion cigarette butt . each cigarette butt can poison 1 , 000 litre of water . if we be serious about marine litter , we have to pick up our butt — and perhaps a little less talk and a little more action from the SNP . I recently meet with the Philpot family at the diverse and successful Barleylands farm in my constituency . fly - tipping be a major concern for they and other local farmer , and they be work together to address it . they tell I that , although fly - tipping be a major issue , it be not the existential threat that the tax increase this Labour Government be impose on they be , with the national insurance tax increase and the massive rise in agricultural property relief and business property relief . they be right , be they not ? I congratulate the right hon . Gentleman on weave in a farm question on fly - tipping , but he be right — [ interruption . ] calm down . please , let ' s calm down ; this be a very important day . I be the decision maker on whether question be right or wrong anyhow . thank you , Mr Speaker . we know that fly - tipping be a very big problem for farmer . I have visit fly - tip site near Watford in the last month and speak to farmer about what they have to do to clear they up . it be clear that many Tory - run county council be not play their part in clean up fly - tipping and make the prosecution that act as a disincentive to these criminal business and their business model . arable farm : cost of Materials what step he be take to help reduce the cost of material for arable farm . annual variation in farm input cost be drive by global market . UK fertiliser farm gate price be tie to movement in the international market , and UK fertiliser supplier compete for market share , provide the good price they can for farmer . farm in my constituency and across Fife produce some of the high quality grain in the world . however , many farmer be struggle to make a profit as import grain be often produce at a different standard . that can undermine or undercut cereal grow in Scotland , which be produce to the high standard . scottish grain be a vital ingredient for high - quality Scotch whisky , and with the news this week of the trade deal with India , welcome by the Scotch Whisky Association , demand for scottish grain be likely to rise . what step will the Minister take to increase standard for import grain , and ensure profit for farmer in my constituency and a consistent supply for sector include Scotch whisky ? I can assure my hon . friend that we will always maintain our high standard . all import product will continue to be subject to clear control , include limit for pesticide residue . I join he in share the really good news on that trade deal : it be good news for Scotch whisky and good news for british producer . my farmer in Northern Ireland and Strangford , and farmer across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , produce some of the good product . price be rise , sometimes due to thing we can not prevent , but farmer need well price from the supermarket . what be be do to ensure that our farmer , who produce a quality product , get the right price for the effort they put in ? I be always grateful for a contribution from the hon . Gentleman . as he will know , a series of fair deal clause be include in the Agriculture Act 2020 ; they be be bring into effect at the moment and we expect to see more progress make in that regard . he be absolutely right to raise the point that farmer should get a fair deal . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . fly - tipping scandalously shoot up by over a third under the previous Conservative Government , and the public be rightly furious when they see their community bury under an avalanche of rubbish . this government will clean up our street , town and village . we will support council to identify , seize and crush waste criminal ' vehicle by close the Tory fly - tip loophole that prevent tough action . we will increase sentence for dump waste to up to five year , and we will make fly - tipper pay the cost of impound their vehicle before they be crush , because we believe that the polluter , not the public , should pay . this government will call time on fly - tipper so we can restore people ' s pride in their neighbourhood . the River Camel multi - use trail in my North Cornwall constituency attract more than half a million user every year and bring over £ 3 million to the local economy . will the Minister please meet I to discuss a river trail extension to Camelford as part of this Government ' s manifesto pledge to create nine new river walk and connect thousand more people to nature ? I be delighted to hear that people be enjoy the River Camel trail . it be wonderful to visit and we want to extend more of these walk across the country so that more people can enjoy they . I will of course make sure that the hon . Gentleman can meet the appropriate Minister to raise his concern . I call Diane Abbott — not here . I call the shadow Secretary of State . as we mark the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe , I remember the great role that my constituency play , include 617 Squadron , fly from RAF Woodhall Spa ; we must also remember and thank those woman and man who form the Land Army in order to feed our troop and our nation . many of their descendant still farm the same field that their ancestor farm in the war , but that tradition be under threat from this Government . before Christmas , I warn the Secretary of State that a farmer have take their life because they be so worried about the family farm tax . the Secretary of State respond with anger , and later stop the farming resilience fund , which help farmer with mental ill health . this week , I have receive the devastating news that several more farmer have take their life because of the family farm tax . that be the Secretary of State ' s legacy , but he can change it , because this change be not yet law . will he set out these tragedy to the Prime Minister and demand that labour policy be change , or offer , on a point of principle , his resignation ? order . this be a very important matter , but I be bother that nobody else be go to get in , so I hope the shadow Secretary of State ' s second question be short . I express my regret that the shadow Secretary of State would seek to politicise personal tragedy in this way . it be immensely regrettable that she would seek to do that ; none of we can know for sure what happen in matter of personal tragedy . it be beneath she to try to weaponise the issue in the way that she have do . this government take issue of mental health very seriously indeed . we be set up mental health hub in every community , so that we can support farmer and other who be suffer from mental ill health . I gently remind she that this be a problem that escalate during her time in office as Secretary of State for Health , when she fail to address the problem that people be face . I be sorry , Mr Speaker , but I be simply confront the Secretary of State with the reality of his policy . another policy be distress farmer and other people : the removal of our ancient property right , first enshrine in the Magna Carta . the Planning and Infrastructure Bill give a quango , Natural England , power to seize private land , not for house building but for undefined environmental reason . it can seize not just agricultural land , but our constituent ' garden , and it do not even have to pay market value for that land . will the Secretary of State now commit to an amendment to the Bill to save our constituent ' garden , or be this Labour ' s garden grab ? as be so often the case from that particular source , that be a complete misrepresentation of the truth . nothing of the kind be happen . rather than try to politicise and weaponise the matter , the right hon . Lady would help herself and people who be genuinely concerned about those issue by stick to the fact . I must thank the Land Army , too . I be only here because my grandma meet my grandad on his farm when she be work in the Land Army . Cornwall have a successful horticultural industry , specialise in cauliflower , daffodil , potato and courgette . the industry welcome the extension of the seasonal worker visa scheme until 2029 , but what metric be be use to ensure that visa allocation will meet the industry ' s need ? without sufficient access to seasonal labour , there be a real risk to Cornwall ' s horticultural sector . I thank my hon . friend for her question , and note that even in those time of distress , woe and horror , some good relationship be form . the seasonal worker visa scheme for 43 , 000 seasonal worker visa be announce a few month ago . that number include 2 , 000 extra for poultry . at the National Farmers Union conference , the Secretary of State announce a five - year extension to 2030 . that will provide certainty , but my hon . friend be right that we need to analyse and assess very carefully what the industry need to ensure it have the resource require . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . on behalf of all member on the liberal Democrat Benches , I add my tribute to those who fight and die to secure our freedom . I also pay tribute to those in rural community , like our in Westmorland , who feed this country and welcome evacuee child from the city , and to our community in Windermere , who welcome the child who have survive the Nazi death camp after the war . we remember they all with deep gratitude . have the Prime Minister consult the Secretary of State on the potential impact on british farmer of the US - UK trade deal ? it be a matter of fact that US animal welfare standard be bad than our , which mean that import cost be low , so allow equal access be not free trade — it be unfair trade . it be throw our farmer under the bus , just as the Conservatives do through their deal with Australia and New Zealand . will the Secretary of State support Liberal Democrat call for the deal to be sign only if it support farmer , and after a vote in this House ? there have be no announcement yet , and I can not pre - empt they , but we have be crystal clear that we have red line . we will not allow british farmer to be undercut on environmental or welfare standard in the way that the Conservatives do when they agree a trade deal with Australia ; it undercut british farmer and cause they immense damage . we will never go the way of the Tories ; we will stand four - square behind our farmer , and I be delighted to hear that the liberal Democrats feel the same . on a similar theme , I congratulate the Government on secure a good deal for our farmer in the India trade deal , which be welcome by the president of the NFU , who say it show that this Government have " clearly listen " , in marked contrast to the previous Government . what assurance will the Secretary of State give I that our farmer will still be include in negotiation on the US trade deal ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for welcome the trade deal with India ; it be a £ 4 . 8 billion boost to the UK economy , and very good news for our whisky and gin producer — and for the producer of salmon , lamb and chocolate , which be all now tariff - free export to India . this government will always negotiate in the national interest , and that be exactly the approach we will take with the US trade negotiation . Solicitor General the Solicitor General be ask — Crown Court : reduce the Backlog what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help reduce the Crown court backlog . today we mark the 80th anniversary of VE Day . it have be 80 year since the ally victory in Europe that bring an end to the second world war . I pay tribute to the extraordinary courage , sacrifice and determination of our veteran and all who make that victory possible . their legacy live on in the freedom that we cherish and enjoy to this very day . let I be absolutely clear : victim be wait far too long to see justice . that be completely unacceptable . it have hit confidence in our criminal justice system , and this Government simply will not stand for it . that be why we be commit to work with the Crown Prosecution Service and partner across the criminal justice system to slash those backlog and get case through the court more quickly . a review be ongoing of how we can reduce the backlog , and I be confident that what emerge from that review will mean that we can get delay down and set about the kind of reform that will deliver the change that the public deserve to see . on the topic of backlog across the justice system , the Ministry of Justice ' s successful campaign to recruit more magistrate be stretch the capacity of local training committee to provide sufficient mentor and appraiser to support new appointee . what more can the Government do to fill the gap in training capacity to well serve the interest of justice ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the vital role that magistrate play in our criminal justice system . as we seek to reduce the intolerable court backlog that we inherit from the previous Government , I have absolutely no doubt that magistrate will continue to have a crucial role . it be essential that any new magistrate receive the right level of training , and I be happy to raise the matter that my hon . friend have speak about with colleague in the Ministry of Justice . I refer colleague to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . mediation and alternative dispute resolution be critical in reduce backlog in the court . I urge Ministers , in addition to hold the review , to look very carefully at the opportunity to use mediation more , particularly mandatory mediation . the right hon . member be absolutely right . I know from my day in practice that mediation and ADR have a very important role to play . it be critical that we get this intolerable backlog in our Crown court down , and this Government be take substantial action to do that . we have increase the number of Crown court sitting day . as I refer to , the Lord Chancellor have ask Sir Brian Leveson to conduct an independent review of our criminal court , and we be also increase the sentencing power of magistrate court . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Criminal Bar Association have report that more than 1 , 300 case be adjourn last year due to a lack of available prosecuting or defence barrister — a 20 - fold increase since 2019 . in the south - west , there be half the number of legal aid provider that we have in London , and my inbox reflect that , with many constituent unable to access legal advice or representation , particularly in housing case involve rogue landlord and unscrupulous management company . meanwhile , Citizens Advice have close its branch across Cornwall . what assessment have the Solicitor General make of how these regional disparity in legal aid provision be drive Crown court backlog , especially in rural area such as my constituency of North Cornwall ? the hon . member raise an important issue . it be crucial that justice be accessible for everyone in this country ; indeed , access to justice be a fundamental tenet of the rule of law . that be why we have undertake a comprehensive review of civil legal aid , and in December , we announce a £ 92 million boost for criminal legal aid solicitor . start this year , we will also be introduce free independent legal adviser for victim of adult rape . there be much more to do — we be clear about that . clearly , there be deficiency in access to justice , but I can assure the hon . member that this Government understand the scale of the problem and be commit to address it . prosecution of Rural Crime what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of rural crime . the Government ' s safe street mission be not just about town and city centre ; it apply equally to our market square and rural village green . rural crime can have devastating consequence for community . this Government be commit to crack down on crime and disorder in rural area , with tough power for the police to tackle antisocial behaviour and prevent farm theft and fly - tipping . that be why the Crown Prosecution Service work closely with local police force to tackle those offence . accord to the late figure in the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society ' s rural crime report , in 2023 , the cost of rural crime increase by 4 . 3 % year on year to £ 52 . 8 million , with criminal gang target farm up and down Wales — include , unfortunately , in my constituency . prosecution rate for livestock theft in particular be very low — often below 1 % , despite the huge financial and emotional toll that this type of crime take on farmer . what action be the Government take to tackle those low prosecution rate ? the hon . member raise an important issue . we know that rural and farming community face acute and bespoke threat from criminal , include highly organise crime group that be exploit our rural community . he have refer to livestock theft , but those community also face fly - tipping and machinery and fuel theft . we be commit to implement the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 , and be also commit to far funding for the national rural and wildlife crime unit . we have announce additional funding for those unit , because we recognise just how critical it be to crack down on rural crime . I should also mention policing , because our neighbourhood policing guarantee cover the entirety of this country — not just urban area , but rural area too . Serious Fraud Office : tackle Economic Crime what step her Department be take to support the Serious Fraud Office in tackle economic crime . what step her Department be take to support the Serious Fraud Office in tackle economic crime . this Government be determined to crack down on the scourge of economic crime , and the Serious Fraud Office do crucial work to tackle complex fraud , bribery and corruption . under its new director , the SFO have open nine new overt investigation and charge 16 defendant . just last week , I see the SFO ' s crucial work at first hand when I observe a dawn raid carry out in relation to a new multimillion - pound bribery investigation . the vast majority of UK business play by the rule , but fraud be estimate to cost UK taxpayer — include my constituent — between £ 55 billion and £ 80 billion per year . what be the Serious Fraud Office do to encourage business to self - report wrongdoing ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; the vast majority of business do play by the rule , and fraud be so damaging precisely because it undermine everyone who play fairly . that be why this Government be so determined to tackle it . I welcome the SFO ' s recently revise guidance , which aim to drive up the number of corporate that self - report wrongdoing . that be a positive development that will foster good corporate citizenship , and it be an important contributor to this Government ' s economic growth mission . I thank the Solicitor General for her answer . since their introduction in 2015 , defer prosecution agreement have result in the SFO raise some £ 1 . 7 billion in fine , yet those dpa have dry up — the last dpa that the Serious Fraud Office sign be some four year ago , in 2021 . I welcome the SFO ' s new strategy to ramp up enforcement , include new guidance to make it simple to report crime , but I believe we can and must go far . can the Solicitor General outline what step the Government be take to support the SFO in ensure that whistleblower be also incentivise to come forward ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the director of the SFO have express strong support for the financial incentivisation of whistleblower , and the SFO ' s five - year strategy commit to explore option , work with partner in the UK and abroad . reform would require careful assessment , and it be right that any suggestion that could enhance the SFO ' s efficiency and our ability as a country to tackle serious fraud , bribery and corruption be properly consider . one thing that concern I in Northern Ireland be criminal gang and former paramilitary gang be involve in all sort of crime , now include economic crime . they see business as a way of create more wealth for their criminal activity . what be be do to take on these criminal gang , whose tentacle reach right across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and , indeed , far afield , which we also have to address ? criminal gang have to be take on and have to be take out of operation and put in jail . do the Al Capone on they — put they in jail for economic crime . your problem be solve , Solicitor General . the hon . member be absolutely right that fraud do not stop at national border , so it be vital that enforcement activity do not stop at national border either . that be why the SFO take co - operation with international partner extremely seriously . in fact , most recently , the director launch a new international anti - corruption prosecutorial taskforce with swiss and french partner agency to strengthen exist tie between these country and to lead to great joint work on case , as well as the sharing of insight and expertise . I would argue that we need more of those agreement and great international co - operation to tackle the issue that he raise . I call the shadow Solicitor General . I wish to add my own tribute to those who bravely fight for our freedom . Marks & Spencer be a much - love cornerstone of the great british high street and an important part of our economy . many member right across this House will be shock to learn that over half a billion pound have be wipe off its value follow a serious ransomware attack . harrod and the Co - op have also be attack , and yesterday the Legal aid Agency be attack too . can the Solicitor General confirm what role the Attorney General ' s Office have play in ensure that the criminal justice system treat such attack robustly ? how be it oversee the response of the Crown Prosecution Service and other relevant agency to economic and cyber - crime more broadly ? the shadow Solicitor General raise an important issue . we know that this type of crime be on the increase , and it be clearly vital that enforcement agency and the CPS give it due prominence . she refer to some extremely well - know and much - love brand . it be important that all those agency play a role in enhance awareness of this type of crime , such that it can be properly prevent . the SFO in particular play a role in raise awareness of online crime so as to protect the public as well as business . I thank the Solicitor General for her response . can she confirm what assessment she have make of the economic and legal risk pose by ransomware attack on large UK business ? can she give an indication of what step the Government be take to ensure that company of national economic importance be well protect and support in the aftermath of such incident ? as I say , the shadow Solicitor General raise extremely important issue — issue that the Government be alive to . this be a cross - Government issue , frankly , and it be important to all those partner enforcement agency . I can assure she that work be ongoing and be be do to protect business and the public from these kind of attack . Road Traffic Act 1988 if the Attorney General will meet the hon . member for Swindon North to discuss prosecution by the Crown Prosecution Service under section 3zb of the Road Traffic Act 1988 . I be aware of the tragic case to which my hon . friend refer , and which he have be campaign on . I would like to take the opportunity to extend my deep condolence to the family of Harry Parker . every single death on our road be completely unacceptable , and increase the safety of our road be a priority for this Government . I thank my hon . friend for her response . Harry Parker be 14 year old when he get run over . the person who take his life do not have a drive licence or any insurance , and do not stop , yet last November the charge be drop . this be partially down to section 3zb of the Road Traffic Act 1988 . will my hon . friend review section 3zb and meet I to see how we can close the loophole ? it be fundamental that our road be safe for all who use they , and that those who break our road safety law be bring to justice . that be why we be commit to deliver a new road safety strategy , and the next step will be set out in due course . the Government keep motor offence under review , include those for drive unlicensed and uninsured . as my hon . friend know , the CPS prosecute matter independently of Government , but I would nevertheless be more than happy to meet he to discuss this matter . stalk what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of people who commit stalking . just last month , National Stalking Awareness Week serve as a sobering reminder of just how crucial it be that perpetrator of stalk be deal with robustly . this Government be absolutely determined to protect victim of stalking , which be why we be take action by extend stalk protection order so that court can impose they on conviction and acquittal , give victim protection when they need it most . we be also conduct a review of stalk legislation to ensure that it be fit for purpose , and we be empower the police to release the identity of online stalker . I thank the Solicitor General for her answer , which largely anticipate my subsequent question . I recently meet a constituent at a surgery appointment who , alongside her family , have experience significant psychological trauma as a result of stalking , and who have concern about the police response . in the light of what the Solicitor General have say about strengthen stalk protection order , what more can be do to ensure that the police be brief and support to implement they , so that family can live their life in safety ? the hon . member raise an important issue , and I be glad that I largely manage to pre - empt his question with my first answer . stalk case be on the rise . we be see more referral to the police and , indeed , more conviction . this government be take strong action on stalk , because we recognise the scale of the issue . we be introduce statutory guidance to empower the police to release the identity of online stalker , which we recognise be extremely important . I mention that we be extend stalk protection order , which be clearly important too , and the review of stalk legislation be ongoing to make sure that that body of law be fit for purpose . my colleague will update the House on that in due course . that complete question . may I just say to the Serjeant at arm that I be very concerned that member who have question on the Order Paper have not be allow into the House ? can we take this up with the police ? they have no right to stop a Member enter this House . I take it very seriously . before we proceed to the business question , I should inform the House that the Government have indicate that there will be a statement this afternoon on US - UK trade . the timing of that statement have yet to be establish , but it will appear on the annunciator once it have be confirm . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 12 May include : Monday 12 May — remain stage of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . Tuesday 13 May — Opposition day ( 7th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Wednesday 14 May — consideration of Lords message on the great british Energy Bill , follow by , if necessary , consideration of Lords amendment , follow by motion to approve the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 . Thursday 15 May — general debate on solar farm , follow by general debate on long - term funding of youth service . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 16 May — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 19 May will include : Monday 19 May — second reading of the Mental Health Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 20 May — second reading of the Victims and Courts Bill . Wednesday 21 May — Opposition day ( 8th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Thursday 22 May — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the Whitsun recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 22 May and return on Monday 2 June . this be of course the 80th anniversary of VE Day , when all Britain rejoice at the defeat of fascism and the end of the war in Europe . I be sure I speak for the whole House in put on record once again our profound thank and our celebration of the immortal memory of that extraordinary generation who — through their courage , their selflessness and their sense of duty — make victory in Europe possible . let we all pray that we can be worthy of their memory . if I may turn back from the sublime sweep of history to the mundane business of our politic , the Government have make valiant effort to crowd the airwave on trade this week , but the unfortunate truth be that they have have another dire week in office . the financial fact of life have not change : growth be stagnant , as a nation we have to raise defence spending rapidly and the Government have make themselves a prisoner of their fiscal rule . before the Leader of the House start in on the local election result , may I remind she that , for all the horror of last week , the opposition still end up with three time as many council seat as the Government ? let we look at those cost pressure a bit more closely . just eight month after a 22 . 3 % increase in pay for junior doctor — an increase describe at the time by the British Medical Association as " a good enough first step " , the House will recall — the BMA have now announce it will ballot its member to strike for more pay . meanwhile , the somewhat unlikely pairing of Tony Blair and Gary Smith , the general secretary of the GMB trade union , have both denounce the Government ' s decision to ban offshore licence in the North sea . Blair describe it as an " irrational " policy " doom to fail " , the backlash to which threaten to " derail the whole agenda " . he say it be cause by Ministers afraid of be cast as " climate denier " . he be not talk about the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , of course ; he be talk about all the Ministers and mps on the Government Benches who know well , but be too frit to say so . Gary Smith say that " climate fundamentalism " — that be the Secretary of State for Energy — would " accelerate the decline of domestic oil and gas production and increase our dependency on gas import " , directly contrary to the Government ' s suppose growth strategy . as he point out : " across society , bill - payer will question why they be subsidise a domestic clean power sprint that be offshore UK job and value . " only today , we have have the news that Ø rste be mothball its giant new offshore wind farm , as it have make it clear it be hold out for even great subsidy , know that the Secretary of State have no choice , and have in effect say that he have no choice , if he want to hit his target . we all want a just and rapid energy transition , but do the Leader of the House not think that the word of Tony Blair and Gary Smith be simple common sense ? there be one other issue that I think we should highlight . the Leader of the House have receive universal condemnation for dismiss concern about groom gang as " dog - whistle politic " . in response , she put out a tweet that conspicuously do not contain an apology for what she have say . the Secretary of State for Health say that her remark be " indefensible " , but the truth be that she have talk in the same way about groom gang from the Dispatch Box , when she accuse people of jump on bandwagon on 9 January this year in business question . I hope we can agree now that this be an extremely serious national issue and that no one , whether or not they hold public office , should be deflect or deny its seriousness . I hope that in her response now , the Leader of the House will put aside party politic , avoid criticise other and speak from the heart . so I ask she : have she now watch the Channel 4 documentary , and if so , how do she feel about it ? do she agree that the dismissal of these entirely valid concern have be one of the factor behind what even today remain a huge continue national scandal . will she now back the call of many victim for a comprehensive national inquiry into groom gang . finally , would she like to take this opportunity to speak directly to the hundred of vulnerable woman involve , and say sorry ? Mr Speaker , far to your statement , talk on the US trade deal development continue at pace . with your permission , the House will be update later today . I will come on to VE Day shortly , but may I first address the remark of the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise what I say on an episode of " any Questions " last week , so that I can be absolutely clear with the House today , and especially to the victim and survivor of child sexual abuse and grooming gang , that I be very sorry for those remark , as I make clear over the weekend . I , and every member of this Government , want your truth to be hear , wherever that truth lead . your truly appalling experience need to be act on , for those responsible to be accountable and face the full force of the law , and for justice to be serve . I would never want to leave the impression that these very serious , profound and far - reach issue , which I have campaign on for many year , should be shy away from and not air — far from it . no stone will be leave unturned . what the victim want , first and foremost , be for action to be take and for the many , many recommendation from previous inquiry to be implement in full , include mandatory reporting of child sexual abuse , for which I have call for nearly a decade . shockingly , those recommendation remain sit on the shelf until we come into government last year . Baroness Louise Casey , who conduct the no - holds - bar inquiry into Rotherham , be carry out an audit on the scale , nature and characteristic of groom gang . she will be report soon . it will include the question on ethnicity . every police force in England and Wales have be ask to look again at historic grooming gang case . they will be reopen , where appropriate , to get the perpetrator behind bar . I hope the House be leave in no doubt about my commitment to these issue and my apology to those victim for any distress I have cause they . I be surprised to hear the shadow Leader of the House try to claim some success in the local election for his party . I be not quite sure that that be what those on the conservative Benches be feel . let I address the issue of our need to move to be a clean energy superpower . I be afraid that yet again at the Dispatch Box the right hon . Gentleman and his party be show a serious misunderstanding of the economic and the reality of the transition to net zero . we face the bad cost of live crisis in generation , because his party leave this country expose to international fossil fuel market as a direct result of their failure to invest in clean energy . it be only by invest in clean energy that we will bring down bill in future . he might want to remind himself of what his former Prime Minister , Theresa May , say about this issue : " the sceptic say that the green transition will cripple business , we say they could not be more wrong . " this be a global race for the job of the future , to get bill down , and that be exactly what we be do . the right hon . Gentleman should know well than anybody that new oil and gas in the North sea will not take a penny off bill , because oil and gas be trade on the international market and therefore we be lock in . the only way to decouple that be by invest in cheap renewable energy , as the Government be do . it be a previous Conservative Energy Minister who say in 2022 : " more UK production wouldn ' t reduce the global price of gas . " the right hon . Gentleman might want to remind himself of that . we have all come together in the Chamber today to honour our veteran and all those who play their part in secure peace and victory in Europe and end the second world war . today , we mark the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe Day , and will shortly recreate the procession of Members from the Chamber to a service of thanksgiving on 8 May 1945 . in address the House on that day , Winston Churchill convey his " deep gratitude to this House of Commons , which have prove itself the strong foundation for wage war that have ever be see in the whole of our long history . we have all of we make our mistake , but the strength of the parliamentary institution have be show to enable it at the same moment to preserve all the title deed of democracy while wage war in the most stern and protract form . " — [ Official Report , 8 May 1945 ; Vol . 0 , c . 1869 . ] as we represent our parliamentary democracy today , these word ring as true now as they do then . we will never forget the sacrifice , bravery and spirit and the million of life lose in defeat fascism . today , we also remember her late Majesty the Queen , whose youthful , joyous celebration symbolise VE Day , and whose long reign shape the peace and prosperity that follow it . today and every day , we remember the immense contribution of the second world war generation and thank they for their service . woman ' s aid report that 82 % of domestic abuse case go unreported . reporting and prosecution rate be disproportionately low for black and minoritised survivor . do the Leader of the House agree that consistent collection and publication of disaggregate datum be key to assess whether Government action be work for all woman ? absolutely — I thank my hon . friend for raise that . as she know , violence against woman and girl be a national emergency and tackle it be one of the key mission of this Government . I agree that this datum need to be bring to light and disaggregate . I mark the 80th anniversary of VE day by commemorate the sacrifice make not just by those who fight and fall in the second world war , but by those who continue to serve our country in our armed force and all who support they , include their family , who often spend long period of time away from their love one . last week ' s local election be the first time in history that the Liberal Democrats beat both the Conservatives and Labour at the same local election . we be proud of the trust that voter place in we , mean that our party now control more council than the Conservatives . last week also see some of the most widely divide result our country have ever see . the winner of the West of England mayoral election , from the Labour party , take the seat with just 25 % of the vote ; put another way , three out of every four voter put their cross in somebody else ' s box . however , the low win vote share be in Cornwall , where the winner in one race — a liberal Democrat — be elect with just 18 . 9 % of the vote . just seven and a half percentage point separate the top six candidate . it be clear that we be witness the end of the traditional two - party system — [ interruption . ] like it or not , our antiquated first - past - the - post system simply be not design to cope with a multi - party system — at least , not for those who believe in fairness , as I hope the Government do . will the Leader of the House now grant time for the Bill bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) to be debate in full , and will she encourage all her colleague across Government to finally support the propose move to proportional representation ? I join the hon . Lady in congratulate all those who be successful in last week ' s election and in pay tribute to the many councillor and candidate who be not successful for their campaigning . the hon . Lady raise some important issue about turnout and engagement in election . we both have a political challenge to ensure that people be engage in the debate and feel energised and enthuse to take part in election , but we also need to look at how election be conduct . this Government be commit to bring forward an election Bill in due course , which will address some of these issue . I be delighted that the United Kingdom stand on the brink of a trade agreement with the United States . do the Leader of the House agree that this be vindication of the firm , but fair , calm and measured approach of the Prime Minister , in stark contrast to the shrill voice from those on the conservative Benches that would have land we in a trade war week ago ? absolutely . may I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the Prime Minister for his determined , consistent and stoic leadership in this area , which be bring dividend to this country , and will ensure future prosperity and growth through the trade deal that he have agree to ? I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . let I make some addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce . next Thursday , there will be a Select Committee statement from the Work and Pensions Committee . on Thursday 22 May there will be a debate on access to NHS dentistry , follow by a debate on dementia care . in Westminster Hall , on 13 May , there will be a debate on the impact of church and religious building on community . on Thursday 15 May there will be a debate on funding for Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance and the Global Fund , follow by a debate on World Asthma Day . on 20 May there will be a debate on pension for people live overseas , and on Thursday 22 May there will be a three - hour debate on the EU - UK summit . yesterday , the renowned charity , standwithus , publish a report on antisemitism on university campus . dozen of student have give their testimony to the failure of university to protect they and their right . they have come out with a series of recommendation , include sanction against university that fail to protect student and an independent inquiry to get to the bottom of why university be not protect student . can we have a statement next week from the relevant Minister on what be go to happen to make sure that jewish student be protect on our campus ? I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for announce the forthcoming Backbench Business . I thank he , too , for all his work . he raise an important report that be out this week . this Government stand firm on antisemitism . we need to root it out on all our university campus , and wherever it exist in our society . I will ensure that he get a full update from the relevant Minister . as the chair of the medicinal cannabis under prescription all - party parliamentary group , I have work closely with Hannah Deacon , the mother of Alfie Dingley , over the past eight year . this woman have change the law , but , sadly , she lose her fight with cancer the day before yesterday . will the Leader of the House pay tribute to she and send condolence to her family , as the work that she have do have change the life of so many young child live with epilepsy ? will she join I and Hannah ' s friend who be here in the House today ? this woman be incredible , and I just want everybody across this House who have have the opportunity to work with she to know that , and to stand in solidarity and send their love to the family — to Drew , Alfie and little Anni . I be sure the whole House will join I in send all the love and good wish to my hon . friend and to her dear friend , Hannah Deacon , and her friend who be here in the Public Gallery today . I remember my hon . friend mention and raise this campaign many time on her behalf . I can truly say that Hannah have change the life of many and she have change policy . her life will be long remember by many , many other and we all pay great tribute to she today . many member of the grooming and rape gang that systematically abuse white work class girl have never face justice , and neither have the councillor , official and police officer suspect of collusion and cover - up . can we have a debate on the need for a national inquiry into these disgusting crime ? will the Leader of the House tell we please who exactly it be she believe be use these horror as a " dog whistle " ? everybody up and down this country be horrify about the crime that have be commit over many , many year by despicable grooming gang . that be why we be , first and foremost , implement the very many recommendation from the recent inquiry , most of which sit on the shelf until the general election last year . those recommendation include mandatory reporting of child sexual abuse , which be something I have campaign on for many year , as have the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and the Minister for Safeguarding , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . we will leave no stone unturned to ensure that the victim of these terrible atrocity get truth , justice and accountability wherever that be need . yesterday I speak with colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs about the progress of the treaty on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction — sometimes know as the global ocean treaty . I be assure that , as far as the Department be concern , the matter have be deal with and be all do , and I be assure that be also the case with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , but when I speak to colleague from the Cabinet Office , they have not hear of it . the Leader of the House will know that the United Nations ocean conference will take place next month , and it be really important that we get ratification of that treaty for the conference . the world be look at we , and if we want to take leadership on this issue , we need to act . I can assure my hon . friend that , give my responsibility for the business of this House , I be well aware of the need to ratify the treaty and all that that involve . we be committed to do so , and I can assure he that we will do so in good time . last week the Permanent Court of Arbitration allow the UK to uphold the ban on sand eel fishing around the UK , include around the Isle of May in my constituency . the ban be do so much to support the native puffin there . it also affirm that policy ban sand eel fishing be base on scientific evidence . however , the impact of the remainder of the judgment be unclear , with different ruling in relation to English sea that muddy the water considerably . will the Government bring forward a debate in Government time so that the House can fully hear and consider their response to this ruling ? I be sorry to hear about the impact that the ruling be have on fishing in the hon . Lady ' s area . I be not aware that the House be to be tell of any development , but the Government will ensure that she get a full ministerial reply , and if the House need to be update , it will be . my constituency have the most leaseholder in the country . I commend this Government ' s work to give leaseholder the accountability that they should have . will the Leader of the House support I in invite the Minister responsible to come and talk to the leasehold action group here in the Cities of London and Westminster about mandatory qualification and secure accountability against their landlord ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the feudal leasehold system be a plague for many homeowner in our country . many of the issue she have in her constituency I share in my own , and I know that the Minister responsible for leasehold , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , would be delighted to meet her constituent , as he recently do with hundred of mine , to discuss this Government ' s plan for leasehold reform . in March the complaint commissioner conclude that the Financial Conduct Authority fail to identify risk relate to the owner of the funeral firm Safe Hands Plans , despite receive information about breach and other serious risk connect to the company . as a result , Safe Hands go into administration in 2022 , with those who have invest in funeral plan lose thousand of pound . can we therefore have a statement on the role of the Financial Conduct Authority in the collapse of Safe Hands and the need for redress for constituent who have be impact by this situation ? I thank the hon . member for raise Safe Hands , which be an issue for many mp across the House . I will ensure that he get a full update from a Minister and that time be find to discuss some of the issue raise by this case . on Saturday I will be join hundred of people from across Beckenham and Penge at Beckenham Rugby Club for a rugby tournament and beer festival . it be a fantastic example of how our small business support and enhance our local community , and I would like to thank Matt and his team at the Three Hounds for all their work on this event . will the Leader of the House join I in wish everyone attend a great weekend ? I do love the sporting question from my hon . friend , for which he get quite a lot of cut - through . I join he in support all those from Beckenham Rugby Club on what sound like a great day out . may I welcome the UK - US trade deal and congratulate the Prime Minister on it ? it be very much in the national interest , although the devil be in the detail . may we have a debate on that trade deal and the concern of british farmer about chlorinate chicken , hormone - treat beef and antibiotic in pig farming ? will the Leader of the House assure the House , Shropshire farmer and british farmer that british agriculture be safe with this trade deal ? we can assure the right hon . gentleman of that . there will be a statement to the House later today — these issue be still unfold — but he be right to praise the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade for the amazing work that they have do to get we to this point . he will be aware that the issue of food standard and agriculture have be red line for the Government in those trade talk , and he will get the detail later today . we be currently face a chronic staffing crisis in adult social care , which have lead to increase recruitment from overseas . migrant worker now make up 16 % of the workforce in England . while many arrive in good faith , they be too often meet with extortionate recruitment fee , wage reduction , exploitative working condition and the ever - present threat of deportation should they raise concern or lose their job . I have be contact by a number of constituent who have witness a shocking litany of failure , negligence and exploitation of migrant worker at the hand of a private company in my constituency of Stockport . many worker have not be pay or have find themselves in overcrowded , substandard housing , and at time without any work at all . as such , will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on the exploitation of migrant worker ? we totally condemn the exploitation of international care worker by rogue employer in the sector . we be take robust action , include by revoke sponsor licence where that be deem to be the case . I will ensure that my hon . friend get an update on his case . I be concerned to read report in the newspaper early this week that train station will not be allow to have step - free access if they have few than 1 , 000 passenger a day or be within 30 mile of a station with step - free access . People in rural area will not be able to use the train if there be no alternative public transport and they can not access a car . will the Leader of the House commit to a debate in Government time so that we can talk about the importance of people in rural area be able to access public transport and , in particular , station such as Whitchurch in my constituency , where there be no step - free access to the southbound platform ? the issue of step - free access at station be always raise with I at business question . I assure the hon . member that the Government be commit to the Access for all programme , and the Rail Minister be review what we can do to support it well . I will ensure that the House be update on that . the Government have today announce good value update for five local authority , include Warrington borough council . the finding for Warrington have highlight a number of serious conclusion that must be address . however , we should also recognise the pressure that local authority face under the last government , with significant reduction to funding and increase demand on their service . Warrington council must now go far and fast to improve , restore trust and deliver good value for my constituent . will the Leader of the House make time to debate the important topic of local government finance and the action that the Government be take to support local authority ? I thank my hon . friend for raise issue in Warrington . she be right that the Government have give record level of funding to local government — £ 69 billion this year , I think — and be commit to restore service and local government in place such as her constituency . Baby Jack be just 16 month old when , on box day 2022 , he pass away from sudden unexplained death in childhood , which be incredibly heartbreaking . it be something that unfortunately we just do not know enough about . I want to commend Jack ' s parent , Cheryl and Darren from Silsden , whom I have meet . they have be fund - raise on this issue ever since that fateful day . this weekend they will be take on their big challenge : cycling from Leeds to Liverpool along the canal . I hope that hon . member across the House , include the Leader of the House , will join I in send our thought to Cheryl and Darren and their eld son Louis on their fortitude and determination , and wish they the very good of luck in their cycling challenge this weekend . I look forward to see they come through Chorley . I be sure the whole House will join I in send the very good to Cheryl and Darren with their fundraising activity this weekend . I be really sorry to hear about the sudden death of Baby Jack — what an awful thing for any parent to go through . that they have be able to turn that into fundraising and campaigning be truly commendable . I look forward to they hopefully pass through Manchester on their way from Leeds to Liverpool . that be a funny route for the canal . victory in Europe day : Commemoration Mr Speaker , I ask that you now suspend the sitting so that we may attend at Westminster Abbey to give thank and to commemorate the 80th anniversary of VE Day — the great victory in the history of our great nation . we will now follow in the footstep of our predecessor 80 year ago . on 8 May 1945 , hon . member form a procession out of the House of Lords , where they have secretly relocate because the House of Commons Chamber have be destroy during the blitz . today , we shall again follow the Mace , but this time from our own Chamber , through the bomb - scar Churchill Arch , which stand as a permanent reminder of the fortitude of those who stand firm through the war . sitting suspend . Green economy : Natural Capital Environmental Audit Committee Select Committee Statement we now come to the Select Committee Statement on behalf of the Environmental Audit Committee . Mr Toby Perkins will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement ; these should be brief question , not speech . question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , and not the relevant Government Minister , and Front Benchers may take part in questioning . I be pleased to present the Environmental Audit Committee ' s report on the role of natural capital in the green economy . this report be initiate by my predecessor as Chair , the right honourable Philip Dunne , the former Member of Parliament for Ludlow . I wish to pay great tribute to he for his excellent contribution as Chair . Mr Dunne enjoy what I suspect be an unusual distinction of have both ask question and answer they in the witness session that lead to this report . have originally initiate the report in January 2024 and then see Parliament dissolve before the report could be publish , he be kind enough to return as a witness in December 2024 to brief the successor Committee on the evidence that his Committee have hear and to provide his own insight . I wish to take this opportunity to place on record my gratitude and , I know , the gratitude of member of the Committee past and present to our former Clerk , Martyn Atkins , who recently leave the service of the Committee for a period of absence after many year of service to the House . Martyn have play a huge role in the work of this Select Committee and many other and will be very much miss , as will Chloe Jago , who recently stand down as press officer on the Committee after five year of excellent service to take up a role close to home . I thank all those who have contribute to this report , the many people and organisation who submit write and oral evidence , the Committee staff — particularly Alex Farnsworth , who have work tirelessly to complete the report — and the member of the current and predecessor Environmental Audit Committee . let I turn to the report itself . we be delighted to see that recommendation no . 1 — that the Government should produce an impact assessment of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill — be satisfied within a day of our report be publish . at this pace , we really could get somewhere . however , we still need to learn more about how the nature restoration fund will interact with biodiversity net gain . I be glad to see that the Minister be here to expand on that in his response . the Dasgupta review make clear the value of nature . nature and the service that it provide underpin both our economy and our way of life . in 2022 , the Office for National Statistics find that the UK ecosystem ' s service be equivalent to 3 . 5 % of gdp , or £ 1 . 8 trillion . the UK have experience significant biodiversity loss in recent decade , with the " State of Nature " report 2023 show an average of 19 % specie abundance decline across more than 750 specie between 1970 and 2021 . the Committee agree with the Government that economic and financial decision making should support the delivery of a nature - positive future and we would like to hear a repetition of that commitment and , indeed , to see it actualise in the forthcoming spending review . the Committee agree with the assertion of this Government and the previous Government that , in a time of spending restraint , taxpayer money alone be no long sufficient to deliver the necessary level of environmental restoration , so private finance must play its part . we be pleased to hear from the Minister for Nature that work be ongoing to well quantify the current size of the annual investment in natural capital . the Committee therefore recommend that , within 12 month , the Government provide a report to Parliament on current and projected level of private investment into nature recovery in England , so that we can see both the progress that have be make and the size of the funding gap . for the Government to deliver on protect 30 % of land by 2030 , they must provide landowner with the confidence to invest in nature restoration . the long - promise land use framework will help , and will give assurance that there be a strategic approach to balance the compete need for our land in regard to food production , nature restoration , renewable energy , residential and commercial development , and other area . it will , however , require a natural capital approach to be embed throughout Government . the Committee hear concern that the change to the agricultural property relief regime have add to uncertainty , although the Government ' s decision to give nature investment equal treatment under inheritance tax at least answer the charge that the Government be prioritise nature recovery ahead of food production . voluntary driver of market demand alone will not deliver the demand that the Government need . compliance mechanism and the expectation of future compliance requirement will drive market demand , so the Government should look at bring in increase compliance requirement , such as by expand biodiversity net gain requirement or mandate corporate disclosure of nature - damage activity . the Committee seek assurance that the propose new nature restoration fund be an addition to , rather than a replacement for , Government investment in nature recovery . without clear support for biodiversity net gain , Ministers risk cause uncertainty in nature market , which could undermine investment in restore nature . it will be good to hear a full - throate defence of BNG from the Minister in his response to the report — a defence that we hear from he , and indeed from myself , when in opposition . although the Committee support an approach that allow nature recovery initiative to be pool , the Government must ensure that we do not end up with nature recovery mile away while there be a further eradication of nature within urban setting . one of the strength of BNG be that the community that suffer the nature blight also benefit from the recovery of nature locally . it will be good to get a commitment from the Minister about that principle remain in place under the nature restoration fund proposal . nature can grow hand in hand with our economy , and money from growth should go back into help nature thrive . the report provide the Government with a road map to restore nature by capitalise on our huge national strength as a global financial leader . it caution the Government not to undermine the progress already make and offer our support for the measure that help nature ' s recovery come hand in hand with the economic growth that the Government rightly demand . I be delighted to speak in support of the Committee ' s report , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee on the way in which he have lead the Committee and on how he take up the remnant of this report from the last Parliament as the first report for our Committee in the new Parliament . he be right to recognise that natural capital be the foundation of our economy . with the spending review next month , do he agree that the Government should set out precisely how they have take a natural capital approach to the evaluation of spending decision ? do he agree that the new national wealth fund should be empower to invest in the natural capital project , as highlight in our report ? to return a compliment , my hon . friend be the only person who be there at the start of the evidence and at the end , and we be very grateful for the continuity he provide . he be right that , as the Committee ' s report lay out , we need to see a natural capital approach embed right through Government . the forthcoming spending review be a great opportunity to see that , and I really hope that we do . he make an important point about the national wealth fund ; it provide a huge opportunity and we look forward to hear what the Minister have to say on that both at this juncture and in his response to the report , which we will get from the Government in due course . I commend the hon . member for the quality of the Committee ' s first report of this Parliament . the National Trust have warn that the Planning and Infrastructure Bill be a " licence to kill nature " and the Office for Environmental Protection have advise the Government that it be a " regression " in environmental law . do he share my concern that a nature restoration fund could create risk to the UK economy by undermine our natural capital , and do he agree that without substantial private investment in nature , government pledge to protect 30 % of land by 2030 , halt the decline of specie and improve people ' s access to green space could be at risk ? I thank the hon . member for his kind word . I will start at the end of his question . he be absolutely right , and we agree with the Government that we need to be able to attract more private investment if the 30 by 30 aspiration be to be realise . it be notable that when the Government come to the Committee , they make it clear that they do not yet know — as their predecessor Government do not know — exactly how much be be raise by the private sector . the starting point of assess whether the Government be on track to meet their target be know how well they be do right now . one of the recommendation in the report be therefore that the Government should get on with identify the full scale of the current level of private sector investment . we will absolutely look to do that . the jury be still out on whether the nature restoration fund will be a good or a bad thing . it offer real potential . a one - for - one approach on small scheme be sometimes expensive to provide and offer relatively limited value , so there be real value to a pooled approach that enable money to go in so that wide - scale improvement can be deliver . however , as I say , we need to be really sure that that do not mean that urban area get the blight and rural area get all the nature gain . we need to see it deliver close to where the initial plan be be deliver . I welcome the publication of the report , which remind we all once again that nature be the true foundation of all wealth in our country and around the globe . a wide range of environmental organisation and eminent academic — include Sir Partha Dasgupta , professor emeritus of economic at the University of Cambridge , whose review for the Treasury underpin the Committee ' s entire report — have publicly write to warn that propose plan in the Government ' s Planning and Infrastructure Bill be " not a tool for ecological recovery " but " a licence to kill nature , with no evidence to suggest this would in any way help our economy . " do my hon . friend agree that when leading economist , former Government adviser and leading conservationist with decade of collective experience have express such deep concern about government legislation , Ministers must listen and think again ? I thank my hon . friend for that and for the excellent contribution he be make to the Select Committee . Professor Dasgupta be hugely respect , and his warning should be take very seriously indeed . I think that all Labour Members recognise the need for growth , but we demand that it come hand in hand with nature recovery . we be one of the most nature - deplete nation on Earth and , as my hon . Friend rightly say , nature be the foundation stone on which all economic growth should be build . a nation that prioritise economic growth over our environment be one head down a dangerous and foolish path . we have hear some really positive commitment from the Government , but we need to see they actualised . I completely agree with what he say . I congratulate my hon . friend and welcome this excellent report , with its focus on the value of natural capital . on such an important day as Sir David Attenborough ' s 99th birthday , I be sure that member across the House will wish to join I in express many happy return to he for his important work in this space . in coastal and rural constituency like mine in South East Cornwall , the natural world and its biodiversity be both cherished and central to local job and to the economy . do my hon . friend agree that integrate natural capital into policy through tool like the nature restoration fund and the nature market framework offer a vital opportunity for the Government and land manager to restore and increase the UK ' s natural capital in way that strengthen nature , boost local resilience and improve wellbee for community and for future generation ? I thank my hon . friend for her congratulation . as I say , it be not my report ; it be ours . I thank she for her contribution to the Committee . she be right about that commitment , and I think all of we on the Committee be drive to make sure that growth be hand in hand with nature , rather than at its expense . I agree with she entirely . Backbench Business St George ' s Day and English Affairs I beg to move , that this House have consider St George ' s Day and english affair . I be grateful to my colleague who co - sponsor this debate , and I wish all those right across our island home a belated but very happy St George ' s day . the cross - party support for this debate speak to the power of St George and our collective pride in our Englishness . while the debate bring many colleague together for all the right reason , regardless of background or political persuasion , we as a House must be very clear that no political party , politician , region , faith , colour or creed have a monopoly on patriotism or pride in our national identity . we gather here 80 year to the day since VE Day — the day of victory in Europe , victory against fascism and victory for decency , democracy and all that make England and our United Kingdom great . as we celebrate 80 year since the end of the most terrible global war in modern history , I will , like many other colleague who would otherwise be here , head back home to my constituency to celebrate with my neighbour , friend and constituent . I pay tribute to all those who fight so that we could live . I give thank for their life and legacy , and on behalf of the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme , I rededicate myself to build a world that be more tolerant , more respectful and , yes , more peaceful . as Churchill say on this day 80 year ago , " long live the Cause of Freedom ! God save the King ! " — [ Official Report , 8 May 1945 ; Vol . 410 , c . 1869 . ] from Newcastle - under - Lyme to North Northumberland , from Newquay to North Yorkshire and everywhere in between and beyond , St George ' s day be a time to celebrate England and our englishness and to show pride in our country — my country — and in our value , our flag and our history . my Englishness be central to my identity . my family root be from all over the Commonwealth , and I have speak in this House before about my grandfather who leave the colony , as they be , to help the war effort here in the United Kingdom . yet it be in England where I be bear and raise ; it be England that shape I and allow someone of my mixed background to thrive , succeed and get on in life . that be the story of our England . I have say in the House before that I be proud of my Englishness and my Britishness , and of the simple truth that in our beloved country — " this blessed plot " , as Shakespeare once call it — we can be anything we want to be with the right support , a work ethic , real opportunity and a good heart . there be so much that any , many and all of we could say about our nation home , but the time limit do not allow I that opportunity — although , Madam Deputy Speaker , you be well known for your indulgence . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate and thank he for do so . it be important . I be one of those people — I suspect many of we be — who be proud to be english and proud to be british ; I recognise they as different thing that we should celebrate uniquely . do he agree that those who seek to use Englishness to divide we , rather than bring we together , do a huge disservice to what be English be all about ? do he also agree that those of we who believe that we can have huge patriotism and pride in our englishness , but who also recognise the value of inclusivity and generosity that our nation have show over the year , need to do a much well job at define exactly what it be as we go forward in difficult political time ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for make a very important intervention . there be so much more that bring we together , and it be incumbent on all member of this House to make that case , and to focus on bring people together , rather than push we far apart . England ' s great asset be its people . that be nowhere clear to I than in Newcastle - under - Lyme , the northern corner of the ancient county of Staffordshire that be my home and my constituency . our people be hardworke , and many be God - fear , decent folk who do not walk by on the other side , but who turn up to be count . we see that in our national health service , in our school , on our railway , in our veteran ’ centre and in community up and down England . we see it during the pandemic and in the struggle alongside the people of Ukraine against Putin ' s tyranny . we see it every single day . one of England ' s great feature be our countryside , and my home of Newcastle - under - Lyme have plenty of it . our farmer , who produce food of the great quality to the high standard , deserve real and meaningful support . they feed we , work hard and lead the world when it come to tend to and care for our land , and I urge Ministers in this government to keep that in mind . where the previous Government fail , we must listen , learn and turn up to be count . the contribution of the english language to western literacy be simply immeasurable . England be home to the great writer of all time , William Shakespeare , and the work of Shakespeare alone continue to put England head and shoulder above the rest when it come to influence on global literature . alongside he , England can claim t . s . Eliot , the Bront ë sister , George Orwell , Jane Austen and many more . english music be some of the most popular and influential music of all time . still today , the Beatles — I see the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) — be consider by many to be the great band of all time , but that be a debate for another day . alongside the Beatles , we have the Stones , David Bowie , Amy Winehouse , Queen , Adele , Elton John , Kate Bush , the excellent Joan Armatrading , Cilla Black , Oasis , the Clash , Pink Floyd and , of course , Robbie Williams — a man of and from north Staffordshire , whose mother live in my constituency of Newcastle - under - Lyme . England have make some of the most enduring and significant contribution to music of any nation on our planet , and that be without mention the many other cultural endeavour master by the English . english film remain dominant globally . a new James Bond film be still one of the premier cinematic event , and no tariff will get in the way of that . Christopher Nolan , an Englishman , be arguably one of the most exciting and skilled film director work today . we give thank for actor like the late Dame Maggie Smith and the late and wonderful Glenda Jackson , formerly of this parish , and to those still go strong like Dame Joanna Lumley and Dame Judi Dench , who I have the pleasure of celebrate my birthday with last year — [ interruption . ] a story for another day , Madam Deputy Speaker . as the birthplace of Reginald Mitchell , the designer of the iconic spitfire plane ; home to a university ; birthplace of a Prime Minister — albeit that he move to Australia to serve in that high office — and the home of the founder of the modern circus , Philip Astley ; the ancient and loyal borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme have leave its mark on english history and culture . if that be not enough , we also have the popular Stoke City clown icon Nello Baldwin — a constituent of mine . speak of Stoke City , I could not make this speech without mention England as the home of the beautiful game . with the local football landscape back home in mind , I of course also pay tribute to Port Vale . today it be important to call for action to ensure that the truth of England ' s story and potential be preserve . we must work to ensure that people across England , and indeed all across the United Kingdom , continue to feel pride in our flag and our community , and feel hope for the future and respect for our past . any talk about love for flag and country must be match by an investment in the people who make they what they be — investment in our national health service , our education and employment support service , our art and culture , and our village , town and city . I do not want my speech to focus solely on the past , when there be so many exciting thing to say about England ' s future , but it would be remiss of I not to touch on some part of our history that fill I with a particular sense of reverence . our democracy be one of the old in the world . an English Parliament have exist in some form since the 13th century , and monumental event , such as the signing of the Magna Carta , have solidify England ' s position in history as a forebearer of individual right and freedom of political expression . those right be fight for and hard win across century by brave woman and man who have the vision to see a well country and a well world for all of we . there be many thing I could say about England ' s relationship to the wide world , but one of the endure strength of our country that I always come back to be the courage , tenacity and character of ordinary english people right across history . England be home to people from all over the world , and we be much well for it . of course , we can not forget that England , too , leave its mark on all corner of the globe . for some — misguidedly , in my view — talk England up be alien to they . to speak of the exciting future ahead of we in the vibrant country that we have become be difficult for some to do . all they seem able to contribute to our national conversation be a view of England as a nation in decline — a nation once great , now not . I have spend much of my several minute speak outline the incredible success and achievement of England ' s past , but for those people , there be nothing more to England than its past . to they I say , " you don ' t know England . " we have face our fair share of adversity , and today of all day remind we of that , but as Disraeli say : " the english nation be never so great as in adversity . " I be never so proud to be English as in those moment . it be when time be tough that I be blow away by the courage , tenacity and generosity of the good people of this country . the English have always find a way to get on , persevere , and , as Churchill put it , " keep bugger on " , whether after the destruction of two world war or through the heartbreak of a disappointing Euros final . we will continue to do so . I will continue to look back at our past with the respect and reverence that it deserve , and look forward to our future with hope and optimism , because do so be part of what make we english , and thing can only get well . I leave my final word to the last verse of one of my , and my late grandfather ' s , favourite hymn . he move to this country in the late 1940 to help ensure that we beat fascism and defend democracy . I shall resist the temptation to sing the verse to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] disappointing ? not for some . " I will not cease from Mental Fight , nor shall my sword sleep in my hand : till we have build Jerusalem , in England ' s green and pleasant Land . " we have much to do , in this House and in community right across the country , so let we get on with . Happy St George ' s day to one and all ! I call the Father of the House . it be a great honour to follow the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , who be fast establish a reputation as an effective parliamentarian and a thoroughly nice chap . his speech be appropriate and excellent in every single way , and I agree with everything he say . it be not often that Labour mp quote former Tory Prime Ministers — that be certainly a first , and we all much enjoy it . of course , as we all do , the hon . Gentleman rightly mention the famous people from his constituency . well , I can match that for Lincolnshire . I can talk of Sir Isaac Newton , John Smith of the pilgrim father , the great poet Alfred , Lord Tennyson , and Joan Plowright . I can also mention one other person who come from Lincolnshire . I do not want to break the cosy consensus of this debate , but it be a lady whom I greatly admire . I believe that she restore greatness to this country when she be Prime Minister — I need not even mention her name because she be so famous . St George be a saint . he be not English , of course . when the far right try to capture the flag of St George , they should perhaps try to remember that he be an Anatolian Greek . I think it be quite good that our national saint be not actually English , and that we know virtually nothing about he . what we do know be base purely on legend and be almost certainly wrong . I think that say much about the easy - go nature of the english people . we be surround by saint here . in the Undercroft , we have St Etheldreda , St Edward the Confessor , St Margaret of Scotland , St Edmund and many more . in Central Lobby , we have the four great patron saint of our country . there be a well - wear joke about St Andrew be on the way to the bar , St Patrick on the way to the exit , St David on the way to this Chamber , where we all like to talk , and St George on the way to the Lords . saint unite ; politician divide . I have many time express in this Chamber — it be rather an unfashionable point of view , but I will mention it briefly — the importance of religion in bind people together . religion , on an ecumenical basis — be proud of one ' s religion and its social ethos — should be a unify factor . all the great religion have much the same moral creed , and I think the decline of religion in England have be rather sad . the theme I want to talk about , so that I do not indulge entirely in clich é s , be the essence of a nation be a sense of community — a community in which everybody be in a project together , all do their bit . sadly , there have be a decline in that sense of community in our nation . for instance , my parent , although English , be bring up in France . they come here as refugee in 1940 when the Germans invade France because they have british passport , and they meet in Bletchley Park . they have a very mixed upbringing , but they have a complete dedication to this country . when my mother be very old , she would still insist , despite be very infirm , on totter off to the polling booth . the wartime generation , who we be celebrate today , have an absolute sense of duty and community , and we want to recreate that . let I make one or two point that may be more controversial . there be some factor that be break our sense of community , and , frankly , we all see from the result last week that they be fuel a feeling of disillusion . one , of course , be illegal migration . we have get to understand that this infuriate everybody . it do not just infuriate right - wing people who do not like the idea of migrant . it also infuriate many people who be work hard and feel that some be take advantage . I do not want to make any criticism of migrant , and I do not want to attack they personally . take a somali migrant — why be he try to come here ? because for hundred of year , his family could fish off the coast of Somalia , and then we in the west send in huge trawler to take all the fish away and take away his livelihood , so he resort to piracy . quite rightly , we then send in warship to deal with that , so once again , they be starve , and he be now on the way here . I do not think we should approach the issue of migration in a nationalistic way . what I like about the speech make by the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme be that it be patriotic , not nationalistic , and it try to heal division . the fact be that illegal migration be an open wound in our society . it be not just the cost of it , with £ 4 million a day spend on hotel ; there be also a sense for many in our country that people who could apply for asylum in the proper , normal way be bypass that route . we have see from a study in the Daily Telegraph this week how easy it be to pay a people smuggler , come over here , be put in a hotel and act as a courier . that be really infuriate people . our fate in the conservative party , because we be no long in power , be that we be dependent on the Labour Government solve this problem — and they will have to solve it , because we can not go on as we be . it be fuel a great sense of anger in the nation . the Government have to get a derogation from the Strasbourg Court , as I have argue many time , in order to arrest , detain and deport people , and then this horrible trade will stop immediately . of course , there be a humanitarian point to be make here : these people smuggler be put life at risk , and people be die . they be feed on human misery . we can not do much about it in the conservative party ; Labour be now in power . my advice to the Government be that if they want to resist this sense of disillusion in society , with people turn away from both the Labour party and the Conservative party , they have to do something about it . they have to do something about legal migration , too . there be a great sense among people who be work hard here that people be pour in or have pour in . I blame my Government as much as any other ; I do not make a party political point here . the Labour party have take over a difficult issue . we all know the reason to do with the pandemic and all the other excuse , and about how we have to keep the NHS and our care home go , but the fact that the Conservative Government allow 1 million people in legally last year be infuriate people , and it be depress wage . it might be good for overall gdp , but it be certainly bad for individual wealth . again , we can do very little about it in the conservative party , but the Government need to act . I know they be try to take step . this be relevant to the debate about St George because it be about try to recreate a sense that we be one nation , and that everybody work hard , everybody pay their taxis , and we get benefit such as free education and free health so that when we fall ill we be help by the state . I be talk to a constituent only today and she be clearly a lady in some distress . she can not move but have just have her personal independence payment cancel . she have be tell she have to work from home , but she can not work from home because she do not have those sort of skill . ever more people be feel angry that they have do their bit and work hard , but when they fall ill or need benefit they be not be help . we have to all work together to try to again get that sense of the wartime spirit — that be a bit of a clich é , but it be about a time when everybody muck in , everybody have a job , everybody do their bit and there be , frankly , very few freeloader . I represent an agricultural constituency . one might wonder why I be now get on to that subject , but again there be a sense among people in agricultural constituency that the Government do not understand their point of view . we be all in favour of green energy in Lincolnshire . we be lead on green energy with wind farm in the North sea ; there be no opposition to they , but we be angry that entrepreneur be import solar panel from China make by slave labour and cover 10 , 000 acre in my constituency with no proper local planning . we be not against solar farm and we be not against the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero ; we just want a sense of fairness that local community have a say in this and there be some sense of proportion . I think I have say my bit . I congratulate the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme and hope we have a very good and worthwhile debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure this important debate . it be poignant that this debate be happen today , on the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe Day — a day to commemorate the sacrifice , bravery and resilience of so many , as well as the courage to stand up for what be right . that , to I , be the embodiment of St George ' s spirit . sometimes the magnitude of the privilege of be in this place really hit home , and today be one of those day . look around , I be think more than I usually do of the sacrifice make by so many veteran and current service personnel from Weston - super - Mare , Worle and the village , across the country and across the Commonwealth . I have think more deeply than probably ever before about the sacrifice of my own dear grandparent during the second world war and the sacrifice of my very love family member currently serve our country in the Royal Air Force . it be such a privilege to stand here in this place and pay tribute to they in the spirit of St George and all the good that he can represent . in the past , St George ' s day be mark by grand festivity across the land , with feast , parade and community gathering that bring people together in celebration of what it mean to be English . if ever we need to revive that spirit , now be the time . we should take full advantage and celebrate our share heritage and rebuild pride in our country and hope for the future , because patriotism be much more than rose - tint nostalgia , and it be not the preserve of one political party or ideology . too often , patriotism be wield as a weapon , its true meaning lose in the noise of performative gesture and narrow nationalism , but the patriotism I value be show up for the people , place and principle that define our country . this St George ' s day , I launch a campaign in Weston - super - mare to make St George ' s day a bank holiday . I invite my constituent to add their support to the campaign and be strike by the variety of response we receive . many embrace it with enthusiasm , while other meet it with scepticism and cynicism . it get I think again about why patriotism should feel suspect or shameful for some . we need to own it , because this love of our country be not exclusive to any one faction or class . it be deep pride in who we be , our share value , and the common ground upon which we all stand . true patriotism be not about cling to an idealise past either ; it be about strive for a fairer , kind , more just future . it be about compassion , decency , the rule of law and a good dose of common sense . and it be not blind loyalty either ; it be principle commitment to make this country well for everyone . for I , patriotism be about the everyday thing in life that make England the good place in the world to live . it be walk along Sand Bay beach in my constituency , as the sea breeze whip through the air and the rain bat we in the face , make sure that we feel alive ; it be listen to my favourite Frank Turner album , " England keep my bone " , burst with pride about the country that I be from ; it be fish and chip on the Grand Pier ; it be Wallace and Gromit and Victoria Wood on tv ; and it be a pot of tea to warm up after take the dog for a walk around Ashcombe Park . it be also stand up to injustice and care enough to say , " we can do well than this . " love your country do not mean settle for the way thing be , but strive for how thing could be . it be about people find their voice among those loud and vexatious people who seek to dominate with hate and division . those who show up , do the hard graft , and organise and campaign for a well future be the patriot . so too be the teacher who stay late to help a struggle student , the single parent juggle work and family , and the many volunteer who give up their free time to serve their community , drive not by a need for recognition but by a deep love for their neighbour and their country . those be the everyday patriot who be too often leave out of the national story . meanwhile , there be those who wrap themselves in the flag , while eagerly chip away at the value it represent : equality , freedom and justice . my grandfather , a proud Dunkirk veteran , who do not like to talk about any of his time during the war , know who those mendacious charlatan who would wear the flag but not represent any of its value be , and he instill in each and every one of his grandchild how to spot they . he give we a few tip about how to take they down as well . it be time that we reclaim patriotism as a unify force for good . we should not shy away from it ; we should own it , because what be more patriotic than strive to make this country fair , kind and more inclusive ? from the suffragette to strike miner , from steelworker to civil right campaigner , our country have always be full of people who love this country enough to demand well . if we abandon patriotism to those who use it as a blunt instrument of exclusion , we allow its true spirit to be distort . we must champion a different kind of patriotism that be not performative or exclusionary , but principled and inclusive ; one that honour and support our armed force , but also the carer , the bus driver and the immigrant work tirelessly in our health and care service to look after our sick and elderly . Loving England do not mean pretend everything be fine , but care enough to fix what be not . it mean believe in the uniqueness of our community , the warmth of our people and the promise of our future , and it mean make sure that every single one of we , regardless of background , be part of that story . let we renew that commitment , not just to symbol and ceremony , but to real , meaningful patriotism — the kind that bring people together , strive for fairness and justice , and dare to imagine a well country for all . I rise to take part in this very important debate on St George ' s day and english affair . I commend the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure the debate . I will say a bit more about the hon . member later on , because I believe that he be a fine addition to this House and that he demonstrate patriotism in all that he do . before I do so and before I speak more generally about St George ' s day , may I say that today we also meet in solemn remembrance and in proud celebration of 8 May 1945 , 80 year ago , when the gun fell silent across Europe ? victory in Europe Day mark not just the end of a long and brutal war on our continent , but the triumph of courage , unity and unyielde resolve over tyranny . in Romford , Essex and across England , the church bell ring out , neighbour embrace and family pause to remember those who have lose love one , but also to welcome those who have return . we remember the generation who face that unimaginable darkness with unwavering bravery : the soldier who fight on land , at sea and in the air ; the family who endure the blitz ; the worker and nurse who keep our nation go ; and those who make the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom . let we never forget that peace be not simply inherit , but earn , and it must be defend anew by each generation . as we reflect on victory in Europe Day , we honour our past by commit to a future shape by democracy , justice and international co - operation . I pay tribute to my father , Frederick William Rosindell , who be an officer in the Royal Air Force during the second world war and fly transport plane . he also serve in the Royal Canadian Air Force , with which he train in Canada during the second world war . we owe so much to all my constituent and their loved one who serve during that conflict and give we the freedom that we enjoy today . I be proud to be at the town hall in Romford today alongside the mayor of the London borough of Havering , Councillor Gerry o ' Sullivan , to raise the VE flag in tribute to all those who serve King , queen and country and give we the freedom that we sometimes but should never take for grant . St George ' s day run deep . we should all celebrate the spirit of St George with great pride . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on british heritage and of the Houses of Parliament branch of the Royal Society of Saint George — my deputy chair be none other than the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme — I be so pleased that we be able to speak today in this general debate about our Englishness and all that it entail . the hon . Member speak passionately about flag , country and people , and as far as I be concerned that sum everything up . I again thank he for everything that he do to promote british and english patriotism and respect for our heritage and tradition in this place and across the country . as I say early , he be a fine addition to the House of Commons . thank to the kind permission of Mr Speaker , the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme and I host a parliamentary St George ' s day reception in the state apartment in Speaker ' s House on St George ' s day on 23 April . that celebration bring together english music , food , wine and politician to celebrate our country and all that be great about our heritage . I offer a special tribute to the band of the Romford Drum & Trumpet Corps , which play the fanfare on that day , and to Kerrie Kavanagh , who organise that . I also offer a tribute to the wonderful pianist , Drew Steanson , who play english music on Mr Speaker ' s grand piano in the state apartment , and to the outstanding opera singer , Terry Bosshard and Marie McLaughlin , who sing " Jerusalem " and the national anthem for we . I can not possibly forget the Silverhand Estate winery in Kent , which donate the magnificent English sparkle wine . I also offer a tribute to all those who volunteer their time and effort to make it such a special annual occasion , which Mr Speaker host for we here in Parliament . I be pleased to let member know that they will be able to avail themselves of the opportunity again next year , as Mr Speaker have already invite we to host another St George ' s day reception . I pay tribute to Nick Dutt , the chairman of the Royal Society of Saint George , for the work that he do , and to Cliff Trowse , the co - ordinator of the Houses of Parliament branch of the Royal Society of Saint George . I do not think I be mean to show prop , but I will do so for one second if you will allow I , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be the foundation charter of our branch of the society here in Parliament , which be inaugurate on 23 April 2009 . I invite all hon . member of all party and member of the other place to join the Royal Society of Saint George here in Parliament to show support for England and our tradition and for the magnificent work of the society not only in this country , but throughout the world . I also pay tribute to Tony Appleton , the magnificent town crier of Romford . he be also a royal town crier — he announce royal birth outside Buckingham Palace — but he be the Romford town crier , and he be in Parliament on 23 April two week ago to ring the bell and announce the order of service for the day . finally , of course , I pay tribute to Barry Hearn OBE , who kindly support this year ' s event so generously . the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme mention some great people — national treasure , great figure in the culture and history of our country — but he forget a few . I will mention one or two who regularly attend our St George ' s day celebration here in Parliament . of course , we can not forget Su Pollard , who come to our St George ' s day event most year , or Patti Boulaye OBE , who also attend and regularly sing for we in Speaker ' s House . finally , I would like to mention Vicki Michelle MBE — from " ' Allo ' Allo " , of course . what well person to remember on this day of VE 80 ? I also thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; if you could convey our thank to Mr Speaker for host that wonderful event , I would be grateful . I hope that hon . member will join we next year . although the great feast day of St George , the patron saint of England and Englishness , be now celebrate with zeal in this place and in many town and village across our country , it be notable that in wide cultural and civic life the celebration of Englishness can sometimes be frown on and english culture can even be demean by some . that be part of the reason for the existence of the Royal Society of Saint George , under royal patronage . it have the noble object of promote Englishness and the english way of life , which I be proud to support as both a Member of Parliament and chairman of the society ' s branch in the Houses of Parliament . it be , however , important to note that the need for great recognition and appreciation of England and her people run beyond the level of culture , deep into the root of our constitutional and devolutionary arrangement . under the devolutionary arrangement enact at the turn of the century , with piece of legislation such as the Scotland Act 1998 that create the Scottish Parliament , regional parliament be also create . for the first time in century , the unifying linchpin of these island — the Crown in Parliament — seem to have be wrench out of place . it be demonstrably true that this have weaken the national unity of our nation and cause some regional , nationalistic and factionalised tendency , which I believe run counter to Britain ' s cultural , institutional and constitutional heritage . however , it be the reality we must operate in today , even if we do not relish it . perhaps the most intellectually consistent response would be to advocate for the reversal of devolution , but of course , there be unlikely to be such a political appetite today to do so . what must be acknowledge be that England , the most populous region with the big economy , be the only home nation not to have her own devolve Parliament . this have create a democratic deficit in which the proud people of England — such as those in my constituency of Romford , Essex — be leave with the rich cultural heritage I outline early but a rather diminished democratic voice . please spare we another Parliament . my right hon . friend will know that I be a very strong supporter of this Parliament and this United Kingdom . I be not , of course , a Member of this House when devolution be introduce , but have I be here at the time , I most certainly would not have vote to break up our United Kingdom in the way that we have do by create different Parliaments and Assemblies across the UK — include the London Assembly , which I would love to see abolish very soon . I appreciate that the hon . Member be speak about St George ' s day and english affair , but I would just take issue with his use of the phrase " break up " to describe the effect of devolution on our country . we devolve some of the power close to the people so that they feel more represented . that be not an attempt to break up the country . I say as a member of the party which , along with the Labour party , be instrumental in achieve devolution that it be to hold the country together while allow people to feel close to where decision be make . I have the utmost respect for the hon . Lady , and she make an extremely valid and important point . nobody want to break up the United Kingdom , and I do not intend to cause offence by say that . I believe that all member of Parliament should be equal . elect representative should be equal , but if we create different type of elect representation at different level , it mean that english mp have a different role from scottish mps , because they have MSPs in Scotland , who have another role . by do so , we be muddle up our constitution , and I regret that that happen , but we have to move on . that be now a quarter of a century ago , and we need to think about the future . there have be certain attempt to deconstruct that democratic deficit . we have english vote for english law , also know as EVEL . that procedure be bring into the House . unitary authority and mayoralty have be create across England , and we be see more be create as we speak . the procedure for create mayoralty be too remote and the procedure to make they meaningful and to appeal to people who feel ignore be look at with contempt . these mayoralty be not support by most people . I think they believe in local democracy at a truly local level , and that be not solve by create vast regional mayoralty and assembly that be not in tune with local people in local community . there may be merit in the new devolutionary arrangement be consider at local government level , but those will only be effective if they address the cultural , economic and political reality of the locality with which they be concerned . for example , yesterday I lead an Adjournment debate about the London borough of Havering and Essex devolution . apparently , Havering be not allow to be consider as part of devolution in Essex . in that debate , I highlight how successive regional London authority and the plan for Essex devolution have ignore the local Essex identity of my constituent , particularly in Romford . that have happen under successive government . the historic county , in the patchwork of traditional England , will play an important part in devolution . I hope the Minister will take back the point that perhaps the historic county and the ceremonial county could be align to avoid the muddle and confusion . many member and I have to debate with people over whether place such as Romford be really Essex or London — what be we ? it muddle a lot of people ' s mind and create a lot of confusion , and it need to be resolve . align the historic and the ceremonial county would go a long way to solve that . it would mean that local government could be purely for administration and the provision of local service , and it would mean that people ' s local identity be not mix up . I therefore request that the Government open up a discussion and a plan for restore all the facet of the english way of life , so that my constituent no long feel that they be be ignore . it be an obvious but integral point that any attempt to deconstruct and replace the current devolutionary arrangement can only be successful if hard - work people , like my constituent in Romford , Essex , be listen to and hear . I be sure that all member of the House would agree that their constituent ' voice must be hear . english democracy might then be restore to the place of pride it use to occupy , just as the english cultural repertoire that have pride of place in Speaker ' s House early this year make such an impact on so many of we . as we reflect on our proud english history , our magnificent british tradition , the Commonwealth of nation , the british overseas territory , the Crown dependency and the wide british family , and all that our forebear achieve in give we the magnificent land and magnificent island nation that we have today , I can do no well than to quote the word of Sir Winston Churchill : " Advance Britannia ! long live the Cause of Freedom ! God save the King ! " — [ Official Report , 8 May 1945 ; Vol . 410 , c . 1869 . ] I , too , congratulate the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on bring this debate to the House . I be delighted to join member from across the House in celebrate St George ' s day and english affair , for it be only right that we take the time to celebrate our history , our heritage and our national character , to reflect on what it mean to be English , and to come together in unity and pride . I fondly recall mark St George ' s day last year as a Minister in Downing Street , where we host an event that bring together business leader , charity , veteran , community leader and voluntary organisation — outstanding member of the community who all play a vital role in our country . it remind I just how proud we should be of our country . we must take pride in our history in order to instil the richness of our culture and our value in the next generation , and to reclaim what Britishness mean to we all . for a small country , we have well and truly punch above our weight . we have defend the world not once , but twice , in two world war — something that must never be forget . before this debate , we rightly mark the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe Day over in Westminster Abbey . the great - great - grandson of Sir Winston Churchill light the candle of peace 80 year on from Sir Winston ' s famous speech , in which he tell the nation that the war have end . like so many other member , we will leave the House straight after this debate to go back to our constituency . I will be go to comberbach in Tatton to share in the VE Day celebration this evening . as we reflect and commemorate VE day , we must ask ourselves one crucial question : have we live up to the example set by those great patriotic individual who fight and die to protect our freedom and give we peace ? for peace and freedom do not just happen ; they be fight for . in ponder that question — and we may have different answer — we need to rethink what our duty be to one another and to our country , to make sure that we do stand up for those same freedom today , and to protect the legacy of those who stand before we and make the ultimate sacrifice , for we can not and must not cower to those who deny our great past , or be traduce by those who be embarrassed or who denounce it . the voice of the right - minded majority must remind those detractor of what we stand for and what we have give the world . our great country be the cradle of the industrial revolution , and the birthplace of the computer and the internet . we give the world football , rugby and cricket . we discover gravity and evolution , and we eradicate smallpox . we have produce literary genius such as Shakespeare , Dickens and the Bront ë s , great composer from Elgar to Britten and , from my home town , the Beatles — those four lad who take music to the world . we have produce artist such as Constable , Turner and , yes , even Banksy . innovation and entrepreneurialism be in our country ' s DNA , and that must be remember and continue . I know that our english character be to be stoical — to find a queue and wait patiently in it — and not to brag . in fact , we would rather hide our light under a bushel than extol our virtue , but now be not the time for that . in an era of speed and fast communication , when fact can be lose and fake become real , we need to remember who we be and what we have give to the world . we be a positive voice in an ever - more complicated and dangerous world , and we need to take heed of Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , which rightly celebrate their national day . we must do the same , too . let we be clear : it be time for the majority of law - abide , hard - work and patriotic people of England to have their say , to stand up for our value — the value of honour , courage , faith and freedom , which have stand the test of time — and to sing with one voice that we be proud of England , proud of Great Britain and proud to be british . we need to take on the mantle of St George , the warrior saint who be the patron saint of England , as a symbol of strength , conviction and righteous purpose , who remind we that our nation have never be afraid to stand up for what be right . in the Chamber where I be deliver this speech , and where we have all speak so positively today , let I say that I be very proud , as I know we all be , to serve in this Parliament . it be the mother of Parliaments , and the heart of a thriving democracy that have be the model for so many other country around the world . let we speak with one voice , with pride and unity , and say clearly and unapologetically that we be proud to be English , we be proud of our past , and we believe in our future . today we stand together to celebrate what make we all English , to celebrate that we be all british and to remember , today of all day , victory in Europe . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . allow I to start by thank the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for propose this debate and congratulate he on his excellent introductory speech . he talk about the importance of see the flag of St George as a positive , and avoid the temptation in some quarter to demean it . that point be also make by the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) and for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) . the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme also talk about the influence of english language , culture , sport and history all over the world , and highlight the courage and tenacity of the english character . of course , today of all day , I join all member across the House in pay tribute to the english and british people who fight in the second world war — enable we to have this debate today — to protect democracy across Europe . like the hon . member for Romford , the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme mention singing , and I surely speak for the whole House when I express my disappointment that he opt not to sing to we , but I hope he will rectify that on a future occasion . he also pay tribute to former Prime Minister Winston Churchill — as do the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , the hon . member for Romford and the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) — who exemplify public service , as do Members of this House to this day . the right hon . member for Gainsborough take we through a little of the history of St George , and I will do a little bit more of that . Legend have it that St George slay an evil dragon that be plague a local town and save a princess . it be traditionally a christian celebration , as the story go that St George offer to kill the dragon only if the town convert to Christianity . however , the historical record point to the fact that George be likely among those who suffer for their faith during the last great persecution of the Church initiate in the year 303 by the roman emperor Diocletian . in fact , it be not until the mid - 13th century that George become firmly associate with the english nation , especially with the Crown and at time of war , and it be not until the time of Henry VIII that the St George ' s cross become the national flag . veneration of George have always have a strong popular dimension , and this be help along by his dragon - slay power . depiction of the saint in combat with the fearsome serpent date from at least the ninth century . a revival of contemporary St George ' s day celebration emerge in the 1990 , with the St George ' s flag a regular feature at sporting event , in church and in use by local government and other public body . my Oxfordshire constituency of Didcot and Wantage have some important contribution to make . we have Dragon hill near Uffington , where legend have it that St George slay the dragon , and the quintessentially english village of Upton have the recently refurbish George public house , which be very much enjoy by parishioner of that village and many from far afield . elsewhere in Oxfordshire there be the St George ' s tower in Oxford castle , a key battleground of the english civil war , which be key to the foundation of our constitutional monarchy and parliamentary democracy . but it be also interesting to note that St George and St George ' s day have an international dimension to this most English of special day . it be a day of celebration in , among other : Hungary , Portugal , Spain , German , Brazil , Serbia and Greece . the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare mention call for St George ' s Day to become an english national holiday , call support by English Heritage and the organisation in which the hon . member for Romford be very active , the Royal Society of St George . I be sure that be something that many member would support . contribution to the debate have also reflect on what Englishness mean to we today . St George ' s Day be an opportunity to take pride in our country ' s achievement , include the pivotal role England and its Parliament play in the birth of modern democracy . England ' s story be one of community spirit , innovation and compassion ; our strength lie in the rich tapestry of rural village , bustling town and global city that make up our country . we believe that patriotism should never mean exclusion . to be proudly English be to embrace the rich diversity of our country , and the right and freedom we all share . hon . member , in particular the hon . member for Romford , talk about what England need to thrive . the Liberal Democrats support the establishment of a UK constitutional convention to draft a new federal constitution , clearly define power at each level of government , base on democratic engagement , liberal value and fair resource distribution . the convention must develop an inclusive structure for government in England , give all region a say in how they be govern . every part of England should have the right to secure a devolution deal that work for local people and be tailor to the unique local dynamic of England ' s region . devolution must come with proper funding . council and combined authority need a sustained increase in funding , reflect demand and reverse the severe pressure face local service . we back the creation of a UK council of minister , bring together devolve Governments and english regional leader to collaborate on national policy and uphold the principle of federal co - operation . decision on local government reorganisation must be drive by council and community , not impose without consultation . it be unacceptable for change to bypass district council and exclude public input . it be essential that any devolution should promote inclusive economic growth , well public service and democratic accountability , so that we can continue to ensure that England be a great place . I call the shadow Minister . it be a privilege to rise on behalf of the shadow Culture team to mark St George ' s day . I thank the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this important debate . " with St George in my heart keep I English , with St George in my heart I pray , with St George in my heart keep I English , keep I English till my die day . " Madam Deputy Speaker , I be proud to be english and so should we all . far from be just a nation of shopkeeper , as wrongly claim , England ' s accomplishment be vast . we have give so much to the world : from the writing of Shakespeare to football , rugby and cricket , and to parliamentary democracy itself in this mother of all Parliaments . England ' s history be one of hero and bravery : Nelson , Wellington , Churchill ; good triumphing over evil ; freedom overcome tyranny ; and the sacrifice of the great generation , which we rightly celebrate this week for VE Day , 80 year on . and we give thank to our incredible armed force serve today . we Conservatives be not ashamed to celebrate England ' s long and storied history ; to remind the world that England be not a sleep lion , but a proud and great nation ready to roar again . England ' s culture be live , breathe and shape by the people who have call this green and pleasant land home in time go by , and by all of we today . we should never take that inheritance for grant . culture matter : it bind we together , give we a common identity and pride , and it provide the foundation for our civic life . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be sure you will agree with I that one of the most important role of every Government be to protect and promote the cultural fabric of our nation . St George be more than a figure of legend . as our patron saint , he represent ideal that be weave deeply into the english character : courage , service and honour . his story have inspire generation to stand firm in defence of what be right , and it remain a powerful symbol of national unity and christian faith . those value and his inspiration be exemplify by those we commemorate throughout this week with our VE Day celebration nationwide . while in this House on the anniversary of VE Day itself , I want to recognise the immense sacrifice those veteran make for we . for our tomorrow , they give their today . their courage , service and duty must inspire we all in this House . I be a proud uncle today , as my seven - year - old niece take my great - grandfather Jack ' s and my great - uncle Bill ' s medal to her school party . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will quote Sir Winston Churchill ' s word 80 year ago today : " we be the first , in this ancient island , to draw the sword against tyranny . after a while we be leave all alone against the most tremendous military power that have be see … but every man , woman and child in the country have no thought of quit the struggle … this be not victory of a party or of any class . it ' s a victory of the great british nation as a whole . " I be sure that every Member will have see how these value be preserve and express in not only our institution , but our everyday life and throughout our history , tradition , literature and music , and in the spirit of local community around the country . we must make sure that english culture — both historic and contemporary — be properly support and celebrate , which mean protect heritage site , fund grassroots art , civil society and music , champion English literature in our school , and give local community a strong voice in how their story be tell and preserve . this be not about nostalgia ; it be about an endure national pride and have the confidence to tell England ' s story , wart and all , and teach the next generation that our past be not to be erase , but to be understand and learn from . we must be clear : english identity be not exclusionary . it be inclusive , civic - minded and root in share experience . from the village green to the city high street , from brass band to bustling market , english culture thrive in our community — not in Whitehall , but in area such as my home of Bexley , and in every town and city across our great country . in this House , we rightly celebrate the Union of our United Kingdom . but England , with its unique blend of people , culture and voice , must never , ever be take for grant . in this St George ' s day debate , the Conservatives will continue to proudly fly the flag not just for tradition ' s sake , but for what it represent : an England that be resilient , creative and confident in its future . let we therefore support and invest in the cultural life of our nation , not only for the obvious economic return , but because our culture be the heart of our nation and we should be proud of it — every field , every hedgerow . together across this House , let we reaffirm our commitment to tell England ' s story — rich , complex and full of hope — with a renew pride . in closing — if you would indulge I one final time , Madam Deputy Speaker — I will quote Shakespeare ' s " Richard II " : " this royal throne of king , this scepter ' d isle , this earth of majesty , this seat of Mars , this other Eden , demi - paradise , this fortress build by Nature for herself … this blessed plot , this earth , this realm , this England " . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) and for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure this important debate , as well as the co - sponsor of this debate , my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) and the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) . we have hear incredibly heartfelt and powerful speech today from the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) , the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) and the Opposition Front Benchers , the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) and for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) . the twenty - third of April — the feast day of St George — have be celebrate in England for hundred of year and remain an enduring symbol of our heritage and national spirit . St George himself be a soldier of the roman empire who stand up for his belief , refuse to renounce his faith even in the face of persecution . his unwavering courage make he a symbol of strength , fairness and perseverance , earn he sainthood and recognition across the world . those value of courage , strength , perseverance , fairness and decency be a distillation of what it mean to be english — so much of which we see reflect across our society , throughout our history and in our present day . to be English be to be proudly part of the United Kingdom . we be bring together by our share value , faith in democracy , the rule of law , individual liberty , mutual respect , and tolerance . as a family of nation , we be strong together than we be apart — strengthen by our diversity and bind by our common endeavour . it be of course fitting that we reflect on these value , as we mark VE Day today , and remember all those who fight bravely for our nation . on the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe over the force of fascism , we honour the sacrifice that they make for our freedom . as we have hear throughout this debate , St George ' s day give we the perfect opportunity to celebrate our heritage — to reflect on what make England great and to unite people under a share sense of belong and national pride . the hon . Lady speak passionately about the importance of St George ' s day , but will the Government consider make St George ' s day a public holiday in England ? we can learn from the wonderful example of Ireland where St Patrick ' s day be a public holiday throughout the island of Ireland . can we not do the same for England ? the hon . Member make an important point . I will not be able to respond with a positive answer right now , but as he be a powerful advocate and campaigner , I know that he will continue to make the case to this Government . England be a nation of invention and innovation , as other have point out . from the creation of the world ' s first vaccine to the invention of the computer and the world wide web , we have be at the forefront of technology , science and healthcare , make a global impact on the challenge that define our time . we have so much to be proud of . we be a nation of creativity and culture . we be the land of Shakespeare , Austen , Bront ë , Newton and Magna Carta , and the land of one of the old Parliaments in the world . we be the mother of Parliaments . England have give voice to the play , literature , song , television programme and film that have define the story that have be tell for generation . hon . member have powerfully and beautifully describe the rich heritage and culture that define this nation , but we be also a nation of sporting success , from football and cricket to triumph in world cycling , Formula One and much else . England have a proud history of entrepreneurial ingenuity , from the pioneer trade of our market town and historic mill to today ' s thrive tech hub , creative start - up and world - class financial centre . England ' s spirit of enterprise have adapt , innovate and drive progress , shape our economy and influence the world , from the industrial revolution to the digital age . England be also a place of distinct beauty . from the enchanting cornish coastline to the rugged wilderness of Northumberland , the tranquil lake of Cumbria and the majestic cliff of Dover , our landscape captivate , inspire and be cherish by people who live here and by people who visit . beyond the achievement lie something more powerful — our sense of service and community . we see this commitment every day , from the courage and bravery of those in the armed force to the compassion and skill of our doctor and nurse in the NHS , from the dedication of our teacher to the generosity of volunteer in our charity , faith group and community organisation across the nation . together , their effort embody the very good of England and the United Kingdom . we be proud to be a nation that foster opportunity and aspiration for all . this be where someone from a working - class background can rise to become Prime Minister , and where a british Hindu can hold the high office in our country as Prime Minister . on a personal note , it be a great source of pride for I to be respond to this debate as a Minister of the Crown . I say that as someone who be bear in Bangladesh , be elect as Britain ' s first Bangladeshi - origin MP — and whose father be bear in 1937 , be 10 year old during partition , at the end of empire , and come to this country in the 1960 to work here and make a life for himself . it be a great source of pride that Englishness and Britishness be about all of we , and that I and other in this House can feel that we too belong and be english as well as british , alongside our multiple identity , as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme demonstrate when talk about his heritage and background . close to home , member mention event in Speaker ' s House . event like those and the St George ' s day festival in Trafalgar Square help to celebrate our rich heritage through music and Morris dance — I have not try the latter , but perhaps member will be inspire to do so after this debate . we have also see a bustling parade in Manchester , with an array of community group and local resident come together to show how proud they be of their local area , local heritage and our identity . sadly , as a number of hon . member have point out , there be some who seek to divide we . it be on all of we to make sure that we fight against the force of division . such individual seek to sow division between we and our community and to create an idea that english national identity be an exclusive , white - only identity . that be not the case . we see that in this debate today and in the contribution we have all make . identity be not pure ; it be mixed and complex . we must stand up for the value of respect , tolerance and fair play ; they be the essence of Englishness and Britishness , and define we as a nation . the Government be commit to invest in our community and channel a spirit of pride , perseverance and positivity that reflect the good of St George ' s day . through our plan for change , we be focus on what matter : ease the cost of living , restore pride in our public service , make street safe , build the home people need , expand opportunity for all and support our veteran with real home for hero . we know that this change start with what matter most to local community — the place we call home . the " English Devolution " White Paper set an ambitious new framework for english devolution , move power out of Westminster . mayor will have a range of power across housing , planning , transport , energy , skill and employment , and more , in order to deliver the mission that we have set out to transform our country . the new £ 1 . 5 billion plan for neighbourhood will deliver up to £ 20 million in funding over the next decade for 75 community across the UK , include 58 in England . the plan will lay the foundation to kickstart local growth and drive up living standard . we will also invest in our heritage . english identity exist in our heritage and culture , and this Government will protect the place that form our community . England ' s fine heritage building be an integral part of our culture . we be allocate £ 15 million for heritage site that be at risk , provide grant for repair and conservation to heritage building , with a focus on the site in most need . this funding will restore local heritage , such as shop , pub , park and town hall . we be also provide just under £ 5 million for the heritage revival fund to empower local people to take control of and look after their local heritage . it will support community organisation to own neglect heritage building and bring they back into good use . as we take pride in these place , we must also protect they for the generation who walk these path after we . we will also support our business and entrepreneur to thrive , and the Government will publish a new small and medium - sized enterprise strategy later this year . this government will protect our shore against external threat and against those who seek to harm our way of life or divide we . we have show that through our big defence investment since the end of the cold war . our strength as a nation be measure not just in what we stand against but in what we stand for , which be community , service and a share belief in a well future . we must inspire the next generation to carry forward the good of England through education , opportunity and the belief that no matter who you be or where you come from , you belong , and you can help shape this country ' s future . I thank all hon . member from across the House for their powerful contribution to this important debate . on VE day , we honour those who give their life for our freedom and for a well tomorrow . as the Prime Minister say at the recent St George ' s day reception at 10 Downing Street , let we take pride in our national identity and in all those who keep the country go . I be grateful to all colleague who speak in the debate . my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) have to return home for a family emergency ; otherwise , she would have take part . the same go for my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) . I be grateful to the Father of the House for his wise word on immigration , faith and community . I be grateful for his compliment , which will do wonder for my reputation in the Government Whips Office . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) , who give an excellent speech — that be no surprise because he go to school in Newcastle - under - Lyme . I be grateful to the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , who mention English sparkle wine , while I forget to . that be no surprise , because he be a man who keep it successful and thriving . the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) know that Merseyside have an important role in my family ' s life . I thank she for her speedy talk on England ' s character and history . I enjoy she typically lefty reflection on the power of Banksy , and thank she for that . in all seriousness , she give an important speech and , like she , I be proud to be british and proud to be English . I thank the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) for his generous comment . he want I to sing . I want to get re - elect , so I be not sure that singing would be a good idea . if I do it not here but at home , I suspect that my neighbour , the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , would have something to say about it , so I will not take up his invitation . I be grateful to both the shadow Minister and the Minister for their generous remark and the uniformity of their comment . this have be an excellent debate , celebrate all that be good about England , all that we have achieve and all that we must do together . it be no surprise , but it be also unfortunate , that there be only three party represent in the House for the duration of the debate : the Labour party , the Tories and the Liberals . let that be a lesson to many in our community up and down England . England be a great country , where so much good have be do , but there be so much more to do , so let we get on with it . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider St George ' s Day and english affair . Brain tumour : Research and Treatment I beg to move , that this House note that Brain Tumour Awareness Month take place in March ; further note that there have be no progress in NHS treatment of brain tumour in 20 year and that they be the big cancer killer of people under the age of 40 ; call on the Government to demand that the National Institute for Health and Care Research take action to spend the £ 40 million provide by the Government for brain tumour research in 2018 for innovative and meaningful drug trial , follow the death of the late Baroness Tessa Jowell ; and far call on the Government to encourage the pharmaceutical industry to undertake research into the repurposing of drug for brain tumour and to require the NHS repurposing service to consider the repurposing of drug for brain tumour . on Saturday 27 November 2021 , Margaret collapse in front of I without warn . she lie on the floor convulse in epileptic fit . by 4 am , two young doctor at University College hospital tell I that she have a brain tumour . on the Wednesday , as I approach her bed on the ward , she say , " look at that doctor . he can ' t look at I — the news from that scan must be really bad . bring he over . " of course , as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , she be always right . my brilliant sister Margaret — the fierce , strong , brave , kind woman I have ever know — have a glioblastoma brain tumour . when it come to such brain tumour , there be an average life expectancy of nine month from diagnosis and a five - year survival rate of just 5 % ; there have be no improvement in NHS treatment in 20 year ; and the UK be grade 27th out of 29 comparable country for its performance . Glioblastoma be the only opponent that my sister have never beat , but over 18 month , she give it she very well shot . stand here , just six week before the second anniversary of her loss , I remain as determined as ever to fight for a cure for this savage cancer in the face of what can only be describe as indifference from the NHS , the pharmaceutical industry , the National Institute for Health and Care Research , the Medical and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency and , I regret to say , most of the cancer charity . in fight this , I believe that we can find a path to improved treatment for not just glioblastoma but all rare cancer . however , that will happen only if we — member of this House , cancer campaigner , patient and the bereaved — make it happen , because the system currently conform to Einstein ' s definition of madness : it continue to do the same thing but expect different outcome . Don ' t get I wrong ; the system would like to cure glioblastoma , but it be just prove a bit difficult . what be laughingly describe as the gold standard of NHS treatment have not change in 20 year . it include surgery , which do not actually remove the tumour , a brutal eight week of radiotherapy , and then as much temozolomide chemotherapy as someone can take , which in Margaret ' s case be not very much . then , nothing from the NHS . those with saving , home , pension or the ability to fundraise use everything they have to travel to other country where people believe that those diagnose with a terminal disease should have access to all available treatment . in Margaret ' s case , that person be Dr Sahinbas in D ü sseldorf . as for those for whom that be not an option — and there be many — our holy , revere NHS expect they just to lay down , take their fate and die . just as I would not let Margaret lay down and die , we should not let anyone in the UK simply lie down and die from a glioblastoma . here be how we can change thing . first , we need early diagnosis . in the vast majority of glioblastoma case , the neuro - oncology multidisciplinary team can diagnose the tumour from an MRI scan . in most case , they wait for surgery , which could take a full eight week from the MRI . give that develop groundbreake immunotherapy treatment be base on give the drug ahead of surgery , early MRI diagnosis would allow improvement in treatment and outcome . secondly , we need drug trial . the only way to find a cure for glioblastoma and other rare cancer be through drug trial , but as those with such cancer know , there be none . nhs trial have collapse and the pharmaceutical industry concentrate on the large , lucrative condition : breast , prostate , bowel and lung cancer . if we believe that no cancer should be leave behind in a country with some of the most innovative pharmaceutical company and a healthcare system as universal as ours , the Government should broker a partnership between that industry and the NHS to make sure that new or repurposed drug be trialle for all cancer . they should share the early risk ; the NHS should run the trial and the drug company should be expect to provide the drug . will the Minister and the Department of Health and Social Care directly support a test case project for glioblastoma treatment , in which a strategy be develop with AstraZeneca , which have set up a rare cancer unit ? thirdly , we must keep cost down . cost be always a barrier to more drug trial . however , trial carry out through the National Institute for Health and Care Research be conduct at a reduce cost . to keep cost down , trial into glioblastoma and other rare cancer should automatically be NIHR - badge , and all fund trial should be give access to NHS resource . fourthly , the mission of the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency should be review . the MHRA be the gatekeeper of drug license in the UK , and it understandably require that all datum on all trial be publish , but in my personal experience from speak with pharmaceutical company , that be a barrier to they provide their good and most innovative drug . while I accept that all information should be publish , information on drug trial should be publish for their respective cancer . if a drug that be originally for lung cancer be trialle on glioblastoma , that should be record separately . fifthly , we need to change the purpose of the NHS medicine repurpose project to provide exist drug for trial . many of our lead medical oncologist believe that there be already a drug in use that could improve and maybe even cure glioblastoma , but it have never be trialle . that be why I be call for the repurposing of the NHS medicine repurpose programme ; we should add the aim of supply exist drug for the treatment of glioblastoma and other rare cancer . I have submit these five propose pledge to the Government ' s consultation on the national cancer plan . they be bear out of my personal experience of talk to anybody who move about glioblastoma over the last two year . I be only one MP , with a GCSE in biology , but I hope with all my heart that my submission will be take seriously , and that the Government will grab it with both hand to ensure that nobody else go through what my sister go through . I thank the hon . member for that move speech . I would like to place on the record my love and admiration for her sister Margaret . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . this be a debate that I wish we be not at . I wish there be no need for we to have this debate , but sadly there be . this be an issue that I have come to know more about personally in the last few month , after a young constituent come to I . Archie be a 22 - year - old elite athlete from Edinburgh , training for the Commonwealth game and the olympic trial . he be diagnose with an inoperable and terminal IDH - mutant low - grade glioma — a rare form of brain tumour that disproportionately affect young people . as I say , he be 22 year old . however , there should be good news , because there be a new highly promising drug — so promising , I be tell , that the trial be stop midway through , and those on the placebo be give the drug , because it be prove so successful in inhibit the growth of the tumour . it be develop in Edinburgh and be available to eligible patient through a name patient programme , through which it be be administer free of charge , but not everywhere — only , in Scotland , in the NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde and NHS Tayside area . however , Archie have not be give access to the drug because of the routine blood - testing and the cost to NHS Lothian . I and his MSP have write to NHS Scotland and the lothian health board , and I have write to the drug company , to ask how we can make the drug available . it seem the cruell of thing that a drug be available , have be partly develop in Archie ' s own city , but he can not have it . I know that the NHS be devolve , but drug policy be not . it seem unfair that we live with a situation in which lifesave treatment be decide by postcode . People be pass from pillar to post only to be tell that they can not or will not have treatment that be available , and that the only option be radiotherapy , chemotherapy and the other intervention that the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden describe , which could be replace . one word cover a lot of the excuse that we have be give : affordability — as if we be deal with anything other than a human being whose situation be no fault of their own . I understand the pressure on finance , on resource and on the NHS — we all do — but that can not mean a limit to our ambition in what we can do for those who be suffer . we be all here because we believe that we can make a difference . I certainly do not come here with the intention of sit back and accept that I could not help when it come to health or that we would talk about save money when we should talk about save life . I count myself lucky to have meet so many dedicated and strong people since I be invite into Archie ' s home to talk with he and his family about the challenge they face and how we could help they . one of those people be Dawn from the Astro Brain Tumour Fund , whose son Shay be diagnose with a grade 2 idh - mutant astrocytoma . he say : " chemotherapy and radiotherapy . that ' s what the future hold for I . after battle through an awake brain surgery , month of rehabilitation , wake up every day battle this disease in my own head , put a smile on my face for those around I , just to have to go through another year of turmoil and appointment , only to be leave with potential long - term cognitive issue and even far away from the 24 - year - old I know on 9 April 2021 . that be not a cure . " it be no long good enough to say that treatment be too difficult or expensive . family be crowdfunde for treatment and look abroad . this be not the nhs that Bevan envisage ; it be not the NHS that any of we want . we be let people down if we do not do as the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden suggest by test such drug on everyone and make they available everywhere . when such a drug come up and can save people ' s life , surely we should ensure that it be available throughout the country , without geographical limit . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for the way she have pursue this issue seriously and with such emotion . I know her sister Margaret . she be a Labour party organiser and I know she for 45 year . she terrify I , to be honest , over the year , but I always admire her commitment to the Labour party and the wide community . I think Margaret would be proud of her sister for the speech she make today and the work that she have do . I congratulate the Milan group , a woman ' s group in my constituency — they call themselves a lady group . it be a group of asian lady who come together when one lose their daughter to a brain tumour . they come together every year , include last weekend , when they raise £ 2 , 500 for the Brain Tumour Charity . each year , they get I to do something . this year , I sing in Punjabi , and they have to lock the door . the previous year , I dance to bhangra music — I try to purchase the video off they because it be go viral at one point . that raise a large amount of money and show the commitment in the wide community , as people become more aware of the situation and of the impact of brain tumour , particularly among child . People realise that something must be do . I want to make a particular point to reinforce what my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden have say . there be a desperate need to look at the mechanism by which new drug be bring forward and trialled and people can access those trial . I be a member of the all - party parliamentary group on brain tumour , and we meet one family who be desperate to get on to a trial of a particular drug , but the drug be be delay through the mechanism we have at the moment . I completely understand the process we have to go through to ensure that a drug be safe and do not cause harm , but there be frustration at how long that take and the fact that some people who have no other option be not be allow to access those trial quickly or effectively enough . on that one occasion , we meet the drug company , and as an all - party group , I think we do have a beneficial effect in bring forward the trial and enable some of the sufferer to access those trial , which we hope will be successful . one of the most important point my hon . Friend make be that the system just be not work at the moment . it be produce an element of frustration and a lack of confidence in the NHS , which be disappointing . that be because the treatment be not be bring forward quickly enough , the access to the trial be tortuous to say the least , and there do not seem to be any mechanism by which we be co - ordinating well with the pharmaceutical industry and try to set priority for it . my hon . friend mention why the industry concentrate on other cancer — because that be where the big profit be — but there have to be some way in which we can incentivise these company to focus on this range of condition . the problem be that there be so many type of brain tumour , and it be difficult to see a company invest a large amount of money when there might be only a limited impact on a small group of patient . however , that be where Government come in . the resourcing of the experimentation , research and trial be so important , and that fall to the state . my hon . friend have make the point in previous debate and in meeting of our all - party group that , even where the money be there to enable that to happen , it be not get out there . we have go through the different organisational structure to investigate what the issue be . I think it be a lack of leadership , and that need to come from Government . one of the suggestion I put to the Minister be that there need to be a conference — it might be a one - off — where we bring everybody together again . the Government have put forward their proposal in the cancer strategy , and they have look at the pathway , but a new element of zest be need . we need to bring the pharmaceutical company in and have an honest discussion about whether the exist structure be work well enough and whether there need to be some rationalisation , to ensure that we be more effective and speedy in our action and to investigate what the pharmaceutical company need in order for research to be undertake speedily , more effectively and with great patient access . as the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) say , there be an issue with the funding of individual drug . if there be to be a rationing process , it be well to be open and transparent about how rational the implementation be across England , Scotland and Wales . at the moment , there seem to be a bit of a postcode lottery in people ' s ability to access these individual drug , in particular when they be be develop for trial . we need a fresh initiative . I be sure the Government will commit to do all they can in the come period , and I hope that more resource will be apply , but unless we get the structure right , the application of those resource will be as frustrating as it be at the moment . as I think the Minister can understand , there have be an expression of frustration at each of our all - party group ' s meeting , because the structure be not implement what the Government themselves want : the wise investment of resource and a more effective link - up with private sector pharmaceutical company . we need some form of breakthrough event to enable we to move forward more effectively and more rapidly . finally , I pay tribute to the various charity , include the Brain Tumour Charity , that be do such hard work to raise fund and to give hope and comfort to people as their family go through this appalling experience . I thank they for all the support they have give we in the all - party group . I thank the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for share her story and for all her endeavour in this House on behalf of her sister and other . I hope she will forgive I for say that she have a big heart , and she express that in this Chamber often . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say he be afraid ; I can not believe he would be afraid of anybody , but I be sure she be not too formidable no matter what the case may be . for any family to receive the news of a brain tumour be instantly worry , and we think of all who have lose their life to this dreadful illness . just recently we mourn with a dear friend of mine whose daughter go to hospital with a suspect stroke and within two month have go to eternity with a glioblastoma brain tumour . she give I an image of a red squirrel in the nearby Mount Stewart estate , run by the National Trust , and that will always have pride of place in my office . in Northern Ireland , 2 , 043 brain tumour case be diagnose between 2017 and 2021 — some 409 case per year . at the end of 2021 , there be almost 5 , 500 people live with a brain tumour , with the diagnosis occur between 1997 and 2021 . during that period , 53 . 2 % of brain tumour case be among woman — as in the case that I know of and in that raise by the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden . if I be to ask for one thing out of this debate today , it would be for extra money to be make available for research and to find the cure , because that be really what we want . brain tumour be the big cancer killer of child and adult under 40 . in the UK , 16 , 000 people be diagnose with a brain tumour each year , and incidence rate of brain tumour be significantly high in Northern Ireland and Wales than in other UK country . brain tumour case be project to rise in Northern Ireland by some 36 % by 2035 , which be really worrying . the Minister always endeavour to give we the answer we all seek , and I ask she to work alongside the Department of Health in Northern Ireland to see how all of we in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can work together to take on glioblastoma cancer and tumour . despite treatment such as surgery , radiotherapy and chemotherapy , some patient find themselves resistant to therapy and they relapse and unfortunately may face death after some 15 month . queen ' s University Belfast be make giant stride in research and repurpose exist drug to ascertain if they can make a difference to these dreadful statistic . while it be thankful for the funding give by Brainwaves NI and other charity , the Government need to assist those charity and other group by make funding available to the highly qualified scientist who could find a cure and have a path to take , but have be preclude from do so due to the lack of money . the statistic be startling : more child and adult under 40 die of a brain tumour than of any other cancer , yet only 1 % of national research spending go on brain tumour research . More research and more spend could make a great difference ; this must be rectify . the difficulty be that no symptom be unique to brain tumour . headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision or weakness of the limb can be due to other pressure effect within the brain . a tumour can also cause seizure due to infiltrative effect on the brain substance . there be many symptom , include deafness , visual disturbance , and problem with the sense of smell . I want to give a wee example . my parliamentary aide have be suffer from a 10 - day headache . she be the one who write all these speech for I every week — a very busy lady . she book an eye test after she do some research and ask for a far intensive scan , which she pay for herself . thankfully in a way , it turn out that her eye have deteriorate but that the headache be not due to anything that she have fear . there be a good point to make here : how many young people would not think to do this or would say , " I can ' t afford to do that " ? how much awareness be there that a headache be not always down to dehydration ? how many people understand that an eye test be an essential part of our healthcare ? perhaps the Minister would consider make eye test free at source for those who work , as well as those on benefit , to increase the number of people have an eye test who need one but just do not think about it . in conclusion , ever conscious of time , I understand that money be not unlimited and that the Government must make effective use of funding , but when I stand at the funeral service and watch the heartbreak of my friend , I think that there be nothing more important than stop that heartbreak in Northern Ireland and across this great United Kingdom . research be the key and we must find the promising research as a matter of urgency . I hope that the debate today will be a step in the right direction . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) on secure this important debate . she be a tireless campaigner on this issue , which be clearly very close to her heart . I thank the hon . member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) for co - sponsor the debate . their joint sponsorship demonstrate the cross - party nature of support for tackle this issue ; no matter which party we belong to , we can all get behind that . my constituent , Alex , from Horwich , get in touch with I about his story . with his permission , I would like to share some of that with hon . member today . Alex ' s powerful testimony remind we just how important it be that we support effort to improve treatment for those suffer from glioblastoma and brain tumour more broadly . in June 2023 , Alex suffer a seizure at home and be initially diagnose with epilepsy , but he be later diagnose with a glioblastoma . despite go through surgery , radiotherapy and chemotherapy , a process that must have be incredibly difficult to bear for his wife , Emma , and child , Joseph and Eloise , the cancer return . Alex have recently have his secondary surgery at Salford Royal and tell I that , though the team and lead doctor he have deal with have be outstanding , the treatment available have hardly change for 20 year , as colleague have already note . I will read some of Alex ' s own word , as they speak much more eloquently than I can to the struggle that he have face . he say : " the real challenge be know what to say to our loved one , especially our kid . we choose to drip - feed relevant information , allow life to carry on , even during gcse . whether that ' s right or wrong , I don ' t know , but we keep go and that ' s what matter . " one in three people in the UK know someone affect by a brain tumour . it kill more child and adult under the age of 40 than any other cancer , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention , but receive just 1 % of the national spend on cancer research . since his diagnosis , Alex have fundraise vigorously for Brain Tumour Research , and recently arrange for Bolton town hall to be light up in honour of Brain Tumour Awareness Month . on Alex ' s behalf , I praise the amazing work do by brain tumour charity , such as Brain Tumour Research , for all they do in raise awareness and funding research , and the staff at the Christie and Salford hospital for their outstanding care , despite the constraint around treatment . those charity clearly can not do it all on their own , and the Government must support where they can . as well as increase , well - use funding , I would like to see more clinical trial and fast diagnosis and treatment by the NHS . that be vital give the speed with which the illness can take hold and the challenge associate with diagnosis . finally , I echo call by colleague and the Brain Tumour Charity for a national brain tumour strategy , and I urge the Minister to give that serious consideration . such a strategy be vital give the current shortfall in the research landscape that have hold back progress to date . I too thank and commend the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for secure the debate . it have be a pleasure to work with she and we be all in awe of her single - minded relentlessness on this topic , from which we can all learn . I have a similar story . two year ago , I receive a call from my nephew and my two niece ask I to come over quickly . I jump in the car and drive as fast as I could to my sister ' s house , where I find her semi - conscious on the floor , which be the start of a journey over the past two year . she be diagnose with a glioblastoma . she undergo surgery , chemotherapy and radiotherapy . she be somewhere up there in the Gallery now , and she be do incredibly well . she be an absolute inspiration to everyone who meet she in her raw courage , determination , empathy and joy in the world . we do not know how it go from here , but she bring home in her thinking how wonderful and beautiful our world be . she have also be a drive force . we have raise £ 60 , 000 and count so far for the Brain Tumour Charity , which do a wonderful job , and she have bring people in left , right and centre who have suffer or be suffer from GBM or have lose love one to GBM . she be engage , thoughtful and determined , and my heart go out to she . I will mention the stat . we know that there be 120 type of brain tumour . some 12 , 000 people be diagnose with a brain tumour every year and — the nasty one — 5 , 300 people die from a brain tumour each year in the UK . in May 2018 , the Government announce a research fund of £ 40 million on the back of the death of Baroness Tessa Jowell to encourage new research into brain tumour , administer through the National Institute for Health and Care Research . on that day , the then Health Secretary , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , say : " at this agonising time , I hope her family can draw comfort from the fact that her legacy will be life save and heartbreak avert for thousand of other family . " however , three year later , in May 2021 , the then Health Secretary report that just £ 8 . 8 million of that £ 40 million have be allocate for dedicated brain tumour research . three year after that , in March 2025 , under a new government , spend to date directly on brain tumour research be just £ 11 . 3 million . concerningly , a little bit of text be add after that , which say : " plus an estimate £ 31 . 5 million in infrastructure " . I have three key question for the Minister , which I would love some answer to , because more than 5 , 000 people die each year be far too many . this have be go on for far too long . we need to do more and fulfil the promise that this House have make . the three question be as follow . will the Minister confirm that the new wording be not an attempt to include the £ 31 . 5 million of infrastructure spend in the £ 40 million headline number , with a view to get the NIHR and the Government off the hook on their commitment to spend the full £ 40 million that they have commit to new research into brain cancer ? will the Government commit to allocate and spend the £ 40 million within a decade , which be already far too long , of their original May 2018 commitment — by May 2028 , which be three year from now ? that be doable if we put our mind to it , and we need the Government ' s help . will the Government stand by the May 2018 commitment to host an annual global conference to bring together world expert on brain cancer ? that have not be do , and we commit to that as a House . will we stand by that , commit to it and kick off a conference by the end of the year ? I salute the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for secure this debate . hopefully we can turn her personal tragedy into a national triumph if we work together . she be absolutely correct in say that individually , certain type of brain tumour be very rare , but collectively they be very common . the simple fact that only 1 % of our national cancer research funding go to they be absolutely unacceptable . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be a national health service optometrist . I will speak on that topic , because a simple eye test can detect a brain tumour , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say . I have unfortunately — or fortunately , in certain case , because we have be able to detect they early — be in the position of see people who be completely asymptomatic or people come in with a simple headache have brain tumour detect . that be why I really want to emphasise that the avenue of use eye test be undervalue and underutilise . they be completely un - invasive , cost efficient and accessible , and they can save so many life . be it at all possible for we to have a national awareness campaign as part of a broad body to ensure that eye test can be link to brain tumour , so that they can be detect ? I pay tribute to Mr and Mrs Atwal in my constituency , who lose their daughter and have be do fundraising . one of the most effective thing they have be do be ensure that at local community event there be a stall that provide information about how to access a diagnosis . that have prove to be incredibly effective , as a range of other professional have pick up on the information . I pay tribute to Mr and Mrs Atwal for their creativity . this be about awareness campaign . People should be aware that 39 % — I think — of child unfortunately diagnose with a brain tumour experience some kind of sight loss or vision change , and one in three people diagnose report a problem with their vision that convert into a brain tumour . an eye test can not detect all brain tumour , but it be a really valuable tool . over 112 , 000 people have sign a petition demand that brain tumour research be no long leave behind . these be not just signature ; as we have hear from today ' s powerful testimony , they be family , and they be story of life cut short and miss chance . we can not allow that to continue any long . I thank the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and my hon . friend the Member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) for bring forward this debate . it have be a privilege to sit through such excellent speech on this very important topic . I be sure that the hon . Lady ' s sister Margaret would be very proud of she , and I be sure that my hon . friend ' s sister be proud of he too . as the hon . Lady and my hon . friend have outline , a brain tumour diagnosis can be utterly devastating and life - change . some 12 , 000 people a year be diagnose with a primary tumour , while many other be diagnose with a secondary tumour that have spread from elsewhere in their body . primary tumour be largely unpreventable , and cause the death of more adult and child under 40 than any other type of cancer . as primary brain tumour do not spread around the body like other cancer type , they do not receive the same staging categorisation . current NHS programme for diagnose cancer early do not include brain tumour , as they focus on target and improvement for catch more cancer in stage 1 and 2 . nearly half of people diagnose — 49 % — be find to have a so - call benign tumour , a grade 1 or 2 tumour that grow more slowly . those tumour be not technically cancerous , so they be not cover by previous cancer plan or initiative for improve cancer care . however , the treatment and care for patient with a low - grade tumour have long - last impact and can be life - altering . I would like to mention the experience of my constituent Madi Ruby , who have tirelessly campaign and fundraise on this issue . she have experience both a grade 1 and a grade 2 tumour . she first experience symptom of a brain tumour in 1995 with numbness in her right arm , and go on to write backwards and develop headache . she go for a CT scan when that numbness spread to her foot and she be involve in a minor car accident . only then be she diagnose with a grade 1 meningioma measure 6 cm , which be remove — she be only 23 at the time . although that surgery be successful , Madi develop partial epilepsy . she be eventually discharge after five year of clear scan , but as we have hear , tumour still impact life . she have have poor mental health and become depressed , and in 2013 , her brain tumour return . that tumour have also be remove , but she still deal with partial epilepsy , constant headache and migraine , and suffer daily . she be also an inspirational person ; she have bravely speak out about her depression , train to be a counsellor , and be now an associate dean responsible for nursing and ally health professional at Wrexham Glynd ŵ r University . I also want to mention my constituent Shaun Burgess , who raise more than £ 11 , 000 for the Brain Tumour Charity and the Meningioma Support Group by run 3 , 000 mile across Shropshire last year . he be raise money after his wife Mo be treat for a non - cancerous tumour , but not everyone diagnose with a brain tumour get that second chance ; Shaun have lose a friend to a more aggressive brain tumour . we must end the tragedy of people lose their life because treatment for brain cancer take too long to start . as my hon . friend the Member for Witney have outline , progress on the treatment of brain tumour have not be good enough . the diagnosis and treatment of cancer should be a top priority for any Government , and the UK should be a global leader in cancer research and outcome . I urge the Minister to listen to the plea of member from across the House on that point today . for so many people , diagnosis and treatment be too difficult to access . my constituency be a typical example . the major hospital in Shrewsbury and Telford face a number of challenge and regularly have some of the long waiting time in the NHS for cancer screening and treatment . in December 2024 , just 64 % of patient be treat within the 62 - day period , despite the target be 85 % . the average across England be much well , but still poor at 71 % . not only do too many people live in treatment desert , but when they be finally offer the treatment they need , it be hard to access . anyone live in rural North Shropshire would say that . have wait anxiously for week or month for a scan and the result , they then , if the news be bad , have to travel extremely long distance for the treatment they need . Most of North Shropshire be an hour and a quarter away from a radiotherapy centre on public transport . for patient with brain tumour , public transport be fundamental if they can no long drive . one of my constituent have face exactly that problem , have have their drive licence suspend by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency after be diagnose with a tumour . apparently that could be remedied if his consultant provide a bt1 form , but he have not be able to get through to the doctor . in the meantime , he be trap without freedom in a constituency with some of the bad public transport in the country . ongoing funding issue , which we know be a huge challenge for the Government , continue to afflict brain tumour patient in a number of way . another constituent of mine tell I their experience after be refer to a care navigator follow their diagnosis . the care navigator ' s job be to contact patient on a monthly basis , see whether they have any problem and concern and guide they through an experience that be extremely traumatic . however , the care navigator position have now be cut , and my constituent have be leave in the dark , with grow anxiety and no one to speak to . no one should be go without treatment because there be not enough equipment , and no one should suffer because there be not enough staff to support they . what would Liberal Democrats do ? we would recruit more cancer nurse , so that every patient have a dedicated specialist support they throughout their treatment . for brain tumour , we would like to see an improvement in diagnosis , the care people receive and the range of treatment option available . diagnosis target need to reflect the fact that brain cancer do not occur in stage in the way that other cancer do — otherwise , we risk brain tumour fall through the crack of NHS target and objective . low - grade brain tumour , such as that suffer by Madi , need renew attention , include in the upcoming cancer plan , which we look forward to see . the Liberal Democrats have commit to boost cancer survival rate more generally by pass a cancer survival research Act , which would require the Government to co - ordinate and ensure funding for research into the cancer with the low survival rate , such as brain tumour . we would halve the time for new treatment to reach patient by expand the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency ' s capacity and ensure that every patient start their treatment for cancer within that 62 - day urgent referral target . we would replace age radiotherapy machine and increase their number so that no one have to travel too far for treatment . measure such as Margaret ' s law , which the hon . member who secure this debate have press for , would be an important step in the right direction to improve research in glioblastoma in particular , and I urge the Minister to consider that too . do the Government have any future plan for allocate support to research into vaccine treatment for brain tumour , which have reportedly show remarkable progress against glioblastoma in recent study ? too many patient with brain tumour have be let down by previous government over many year , and I hope that this Government will step up and make brain tumour , cancer and NHS care their no . 1 priority . I call the shadow Minister . I start with a personal apology to my constituent on this VE Day . while I can not stand there in person among those mark our victory in remembrance in Hinckley and Bosworth in north - west Leicestershire , I be carry out the very duty that people give their life to protect . the sacrifice of those who fight in world war two ensure that the work of this Parliament and democracy itself endure . their courage live in every free debate , every vote cast , and every moment we serve the public good . that should never be forget or take for grant . I be therefore privileged to respond on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition to such an important topic that resonate with so many — brain tumour . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) for bring forward this debate . I be also pleased to hear this important issue raise only yesterday in Prime Minister ' s question by the hon . member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) , talk about his constituent ' s remarkable and inspirational story about overcome glioblastoma . although the Prime Minister do not respond with detail about brain tumour specifically , these be important opportunity to raise and debate this topic while tell the human story , and I look forward to hear from the Minister today . one such story be an example from my own constituency of Hinckley and Bosworth , involve Katherine and Simon Tansey and their daughter Isla . I have tell this story in the House in year past , but it be so poignant that I be not shy about tell it again . we can choose to be affect by the world or we can choose to affect the world , and my constituent Isla choose the latter . in August 2017 , seven - year - old Isla Tansey wake up unable to walk . after many horrible treatment , surgery and radiotherapy , she be diagnose with DIPG — diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma — in January 2018 . Isla ' s mum describe the terminal illness as the most traumatic and heartbreaking experience for a family to go through . sadly , Isla pass away in July 2018 , but not before inspire thousand around the world with her positivity and creativity through her hobby : paint stone and pebble . Isla ask other to join she by paint their own stone with any design , but she ask they to include the hashtag # islastone and the word " photo . post . rehide " , and then to send picture to a dedicated Facebook page for she to see . they be subsequently to leave the stone somewhere hide so that when they be find , they could spread a little bit of the joy that Isla have give they . Isla ' s mother Katherine hope that one day a child might find the stone , learn about Isla ' s story and become a researcher in childhood cancer . thousand of people take part , and more than 149 country be involve . although Isla could no long walk , she love to see where all the stone end up and where they would travel next . this include the Taj Mahal , New Zealand , Disneyland and America , with one stone reach Antarctica . through the stone and the people who make they , hide they and post their photo , Isla travel the world . the hashtag # islastone grow to a community of over 65 , 000 member from all across the world . in 2019 , a year on from Isla ' s pass , a world record be set at the Celebration of Smiles event in Hinkley for the large display of paint stone , with 8 , 542 — all in remembrance of Isla . off the back of that , Simon and Katherine set up the Islastones Foundation to raise research grant , awareness and smile to help fight childhood cancer . they be award the Points of Light award from the then Prime Minister in 2023 . why do this matter ? we have all hear the statistic in this debate , but these be the real story behind the case , and our constituent all rightly ask for real understanding , for listen and for something to change . I be remind of the quote : " your life be a message to the world . make sure it be inspiring . " Isla ' s message be truly inspiring , and I hope the Government ' s message on cancer and brain tumour will be the same . I turn to the substance of the debate . it be clear today that member be ask for great priority to be give to accelerate research into brain tumour and treatment . the motion partly focus on the £ 40 million of funding provide by the previous Government for research into brain tumour , and I understand the frustration of mps from across the House at the speed of allocation to project since 2018 . at this point , I must pay tribute to the Tessa Jowell Brain Cancer Mission for its work with the NIHR . this collaboration have lead to the NIHR issue funding call for researcher to evaluate treatment for brain tumour and to expand the network of trial for brain tumour , include the national brain tumour consortium . look over the debate , I notice that the Minister say on Second Reading of the Rare Cancers Bill : " in the five year since 2018 - 19 , the NIHR have invest £ 11 . 3 million directly in brain cancer , with a furth £ 31 . 5 million to enable brain tumour research in 227 study involve 8 , 500 people . the commitment remain in place . I can confirm that there be no upper limit on that funding . we be explore additional research policy option to encourage more clinical trial in early phase research and the development of medical device and diagnostic . " — [ Official Report , 14 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 1434 . ] that be of course encouraging , but campaigner want to see project up and run as soon as possible . to that end , would the Minister consider the call from Brain Tumour Research to create a set of dedicated funding stream for early - career researcher , improve access to clinical trial and well integration of brain tumour in cut - edge cancer initiative , especially give the propose abolition of NHS England ? it be that deep desire to get research move into potential new treatment that lead to the Rare Cancers Bill , propose by the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) . the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , be pleased to support the legislation when it be introduce in March . I be glad to note that the Bill receive Government support , and it be endorse by the Brain Tumour Charity , Brain Tumour Research and other patient group . I welcome the Bill ' s intention to encourage industry to concentrate more research on treatment for rare and less common cancer , include brain tumour , particularly through the review of the orphan drug regulation . however , it be vital that there be alignment with the national cancer plan , which be likely to set the direction of cancer policy for the next five to 10 year . can the Minister confirm whether the key measure in the Bill will be include in the upcoming national cancer plan ? as well as accelerate research into brain tumour , we must take step to increase participation among those personally affected . one of the aim of the Rare Cancers Bill be to get more patient into clinical trial for rare cancer , include brain tumour . it be sober that the Brain Tumour Charity ' s survey find that only 12 % of respondent have participate in a clinical trial . we also know from the Institute of Cancer Research that brain tumour clinical trial have the low recruitment of any cancer type . this be why the last Government ask Lord o ' Shaughnessy to review the barrier to commercial clinical trial in the aftermath of the covid pandemic . I know that the Government have state that they be commit to implement the recommendation of the o ' Shaughnessy review , but can the Minister provide further detail on what progress have be make to date ? on a side note — but a related one — at a recent ve Day celebration in Donisthorpe I meet a constituent who raise with I the issue of the acquire brain injury strategy . that cross - party initiative have be champion by the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , who be now a Labour Minister . somewhat fortuitously , I be able to tell my constituent that I be take part in a debate on brain tumour today . she and the like of Headway and the Child Brain Injury Trust be keen to ensure that they be able to support people through the change that the Government be push through on personal independence payment and disability support , so would the Minister consider review or update the acquire brain injury strategy in the light of these change ? finally , I want to end on a positive note . the discussion between the MHRA and Northwest Biotherapeutics be provide hope that people live with new or recurrent glioblastoma may have access to a new treatment , DCVax - L , which could make a real difference in prolong their survival from this terrible disease . it be important that we build on these development , and take step to reduce barrier to research in brain tumour and access to new treatment as they develop . after all , as one brain tumour survivor say : " Hope be the anchor that keep I steady through the storm of my diagnosis " . I hope that this very debate will bring hope to those suffering and their family , and will demonstrate that the Government be listen and work for well outcome . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and the hon . member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) for secure this vitally important debate . they have both be powerful voice in this place for more research , great care and well treatment for patient with brain tumour . my hon . friend speak so powerfully , as always , and in the name of her sister Margaret . I thank the hon . member for Witney for share his sister ' s story . I commend she for her fundraising activity and wish she the very good . the hon . Member ask three very clear question , which I hope my response will cover . I also thank other member who make powerful contribution in what have be a very constructive debate . I hope my response will answer their query , but if not , I will endeavour to write to all member follow this debate about any gap that be leave . the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) speak about disparity of drug access . my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) ask for z , and speak about the requirement for it . he express the frustration of the APPG and other at the speed at which we be able to make progress . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) speak about the importance of research , and my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) speak about clinical trial . the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) bring his expertise on optometry to bear , and speak about how useful an eye test can be . the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , talk about low - grade tumour . I commend her constituent , whom she speak about , for their work . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , for share the story of Isla ' s stone . what a powerful metaphor and a powerful remembrance . he also speak about the acquire brain injury strategy . my remark will focus on brain tumour , but I can confirm that the ABI strategy remain in play and in development . I will update the House on that as soon as possible . first , I pay tribute to some fantastic charity for their advocacy — the Brain Tumour Charity , Brain Tumour Research , Cancer Research UK and Tom ' s Trust , to name just a few . innovative research be vital in our fight against this devastating disease if we be to offer people the most cutting - edge treatment and the high - quality care . the Department of Health and Social Care , through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , invest over £ 1 . 6 billion per year in research . in the past financial year alone , it invest over £ 130 million specifically in cancer research . that have enable 261 brain tumour study to happen in the NHS , involve 11 , 400 people in potentially life - change research over the past six year . since 2018 , the NIHR have directly invest almost £ 12 million in brain tumour research project ; it have also spend around £ 37 . 5 million on wide infrastructure investment in facility , service and the research workforce , make research possible . in addition , over five year , between 2020 and 2024 , the Medical Research Council commit more than £ 18 . 5 million to brain tumour research . our investment be have an impact . NIHR - fund research have show that a new target drug combination treatment can give well outcome for one of the most common type of paediatric brain cancer , but of course there be still so much more to do . too little be know about how to prevent , diagnose and manage brain tumour , and they remain one of the hard cancer to treat and a challenging area for research . that be why we be committed to further our investment in brain cancer research and have already take some step to stimulate scientific progress . I would like to offer the House just three example from the past year . first , in September , the NIHR announce a new package of funding opportunity for brain cancer research for both adult and child . secondly , in December , the NIHR establish a new national brain tumour research consortium . the consortium bring together research from a range of discipline and institution to drive fast scientific advancement in how we prevent , detect , manage and treat brain cancer . this complement the NIHR ' s dedicated funding call on research into wraparound care , rehabilitation and quality of life for patient with brain tumour . it have receive a high volume of application , and those application be under consideration by an independent expert peer review panel . thirdly , the Department be work actively as a member of the Tessa Jowell Brain Cancer Mission to fully support the vision of bring the good care to all brain tumour patient in the UK . together , we will work with the brain tumour community to accelerate research and bring new insight to the field . this summer , the mission will launch the Tessa Jowell ally health professional research fellowship to train early - career health professional in conduct vital research on how we improve patient ' quality of life . the commitment to spend at least £ 40 million on brain cancer remain in place . the limit factor have not be restriction on funding , or fund be spend elsewhere , and every research proposal assess as be fundable have be fund . my Department be now focus on how we grow the scientific community work on brain cancer to get more research fund . we be committed to increase spending on brain cancer research , and the £ 40 million target be not a funding ceiling — it will not end there . however , it be important that only high - quality application be fund , so that public fund be invest well and produce impactful and usable research evidence . we will continue to work hand in glove with partner who fund research on new scientific discovery , such as Cancer Research UK , the Medical Research Council and brain tumour charity . we stand ready to translate these much - need discovery as quickly as possible into new treatment for patient via the NIHR . my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden raise the issue of partnership with industry to develop treatment , and I can confirm that we be commit to work with the pharmaceutical industry and other with the common aim of create a fast , more efficient , more accessible and innovative clinical treatment delivery system . we expect these effort to attract more commercial investment in clinical research , and to yield a broad and diverse portfolio of clinical trial in the UK , so that we can provide innovative treatment option for patient , include those with glioblastoma . the new brain tumour research consortium , to which I have refer , will bring together people to work on that , and will work to detect , manage and treat rarer and less survivable cancer in child and adult . clinical trial be a crucial part of cancer research . they be the key to advanced medical progress , improve patient outcome and more hope for the future . Britain be already one of the good destination in the world for clinical trial , but we want to go far . on 7 April , the Prime Minister announce action to accelerate the set - up and delivery of clinical trial ; the time take to set up study will be cut to 150 day by March next year , down from 250 day , accord to the late datum , which be collect in 2022 . the Department of Health and Social Care be commit to be a world - lead destination for clinical trial . work be ongoing to streamline and reform the set - up and delivery of clinical trial through digitalisation , and by reduce unnecessary bureaucracy . that be drive a " right research , right set " initiative , and we be move from reactive to proactive portfolio management , include by support the workforce and continue to embed a research and innovation culture across the health and social care system . the Government also support the private Member ' s Bill on rare cancer , bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) . the Bill will make it easy for clinical trial on rare cancer to take place in England by ensure that the patient population can be easily contact . this Government be commit to back innovative clinical research ecosystem in the UK , so that british patient can be among the first to benefit . we will bust bureaucracy , fast - track clinical trial and give patient improve access to cutting - edge treatment and technology , include for brain tumour . " be Part of Research " be our landmark service , allow people from all walk of life across the UK to find and participate in research relevant to they , which could transform life . I urge everybody watch at home to sign up to " be Part of Research " and to get involve . we have speak about medicine repurpose , whereby medicine approve for a particular condition be use in new way to treat different condition . repurpose drug may have particular value for rare cancer , such as brain cancer , for which drug development have be limit . as my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden note , NHS England have suspend its medicine repurpose programme , but not because it be unimportant ; it have show that opportunity to use exist medicine in new way can be deliver without the support of a formal repurposing programme , include , for example , through local off - label prescribing . this create opportunity for NIHR and other funder to support proposal for clinical trial that use repurpose drug for rare cancer . we will help researcher work with industry and clinician to strengthen the evidence base for new drug , and for new use of drug , so that we can find out how patient can well be help . how well will that work be co - ordinated if it be do on a local , sporadic basis , and how will the repurposing of drug be co - ordinated centrally if NHS England be no long undertake that work ? NHS England have find that create that environment do not necessarily provide new and well way of repurpose drug , and that can be do far more efficiently and far less bureaucratically by use local off - label prescribing . we be look at how we can incentivise researcher and clinical trial to explore repurpose drug . we be determined to make the NIHR and other funder grasp opportunity to support those proposal . we will help researcher work with industry and clinician to strengthen the evidence base for new drug . the NHS be work hard to diagnose and treat cancer on time . there be more to do on early diagnosis and fast treatment , in order to improve patient experience and survival . the NHS be focus on improve diagnostic waiting time , and on provide MRI , CT and other test to reduce cancer wait , because , as Lord Darzi ' s investigation have show , we face significant challenge if we be to bring this country ' s cancer survival rate back up to the standard of the good in the world . we know that the good way to improve survival for those with brain tumour , and with all cancer , be to diagnose patient early and treat they quickly . in our first six month , 80 , 000 more patient receive a diagnosis or an all - clear within 28 day than do in the previous year , thank to investment in cut NHS waiting list . in March , more than 80 % of patient in England refer for cancer have it rule out or diagnose within 28 day — it be the first time that target have be meet in year . [ Official Report , 2 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) but we must go far , and we will . our reform to cancer care will see more than 100 , 000 people diagnose fast , and thousand more start treatment within two month across the NHS . there be no single solution to this complex challenge . that be why my right hon . friend , the Secretary of State , have be clear that there will be a national cancer plan publish later this year . this plan will ensure that rare cancer , include brain cancer , will not be leave behind . it be my absolute privilege , as a person with cancer , to be drive that cancer plan . I be delighted that we have so far receive more than 11 , 000 representation as part of the call for evidence . I can assure my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden that her contribution and all other will be take seriously . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson also talk about low - grade cancer . there be a difference between staging and grading , and it be important that we be clear about that . low - grade brain tumour be consider non - cancerous , and they grow more slowly and be less likely to spread , but although low - grade brain tumour be generally non - cancerous , they can have similar serious symptom , and require surgery or radiotherapy to treat they . the Government be invest in new life - save and life - improve research to support people diagnose with those cancer . in closing , for those affect by this devastating disease , every discovery , every treatment and every moment matter . we recognise that more need to be do to stimulate high - quality , high - impact research into brain tumour . through our targeted package of support , that be what we will do . we completely understand the strength of feeling on this issue , not least because three Ministers in the Department of Health and Social Care be cancer survivor . we know how terrifying it be to receive a diagnosis . we have sit in waiting room , hope for good news and fear the bad — and we have hear the bad . we have have those difficult conversation with our love one and see the devastating impact on their life . that be why we be committed to make a real difference for patient with brain cancer . we will leave no stone unturned until they get the first - class care that they deserve . I look forward to far discuss how we can achieve this when I meet member of the all - party parliamentary group on brain tumour next week . I call Dame Siobhain McDonagh to wind up . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your kind word about Margaret . I thank everybody who have take part in the debate . I appreciate that they have be take from their constituency , where there will be great celebration for the 80th anniversary of VE Day . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for the debate . I suggest to the Committee that I do not want last Thursday because it be polling day , so when I be offer 8 May , I do not really feel that I could refuse . I say to the Minister , the shadow Ministers and all hon . member that if we rely on the system as it be , there will be no progress . the only way to bring about progress be to intervene and to challenge . to that end , I be delighted to say that in July we will be launch the first drug trial in Margaret ' s memory , to try immunotherapy on people with glioblastoma . we will be do that only on one site , at UCL and UCLH . that be because the structure of drug trial in the NHS continue to be so difficult — this be identify by Lord O ' Shaughnessy in his report — that go to more site would take year . People diagnose with this condition have not get year , so we all have to intervene . Most Ministers in the previous Government and those in this Government have be incredibly well organised and well motivated . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his intervention , which have make our trial possible at this speed , but unless we personally get involve , no great speech , wish or hope will make a change . the system do not want change . we have to enforce change . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House note that Brain Tumour Awareness Month take place in March ; further note that there have be no progress in NHS treatment of brain tumour in 20 year and that they be the big cancer killer of people under the age of 40 ; call on the Government to demand that the National Institute for Health and Care Research take action to spend the £ 40 million provide by the Government for brain tumour research in 2018 for innovative and meaningful drug trial , follow the death of the late Baroness Tessa Jowell ; and far call on the Government to encourage the pharmaceutical industry to undertake research into the repurposing of drug for brain tumour and to require the NHS repurposing service to consider the repurposing of drug for brain tumour . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sorry to ask this , but we need to understand what be happen about the trade negotiation and the statement that may be come . I ask because three of we here — the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) , the hon . member for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) and I — have plane to catch . I understand that other in the Chamber have make travel arrangement as well . if the statement be not happen , let we go . I thank the hon . member for his point of order . while member be aware that a statement be expect on trade negotiation , I have no further information on the timing . his comment be now on the record . I suspend the House until further notice . the Annunciator will give further information , and bell will be ring before the House resume . sitting suspend . on resume — I believe we be now come to the statement . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . it have be the intention of the Government to make a statement to the House this afternoon immediately follow the scheduled press conference by the US President and the word of our own Prime Minister . both of those set of remark be delay , with the result that , at this relatively late hour , the Government would now suggest respectfully to you that it would be more courteous to the House to be able to provide all member with the opportunity for a full statement on Monday . if that do not — order . the Government have to come forward with a statement . they convert an urgent question to a statement this morning , so a statement have to be make . what the Minister say can not be do on a point of order , as that would be unfair . I understand that people be go around tell member to go home as there would be no statement , because Downing Street have decide that . we do not do business like this : it be totally wrong . to give he the benefit of the doubt , I be sure he would like to update the House on the position now , and I would of course expect the detail to come on Monday . I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , and I of course defer to your judgment and will issue the statement — order . it be not my judgment ; these be the rule of the House . an urgent question be put in , and it be convert by the Government into a statement , so it be for the Government now to come forward with the statement . Trade negotiation thank you , Mr Speaker . let I make the statement , as request . within the last couple of hour , a deal have be announce by the Prime Minister and President Trump respectively . I therefore welcome the opportunity to update the House on the term of the agreement that have just be reach . back in February , I stand before the House and say : " what british industry need and deserve be not a knee - jerk reaction but a cool and clear - head sense of the UK ' s national interest , base on a full assessment of all the implication of US action . " — [ Official Report , 11 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 182 . ] it be this approach , which the Government have take , that have bring we to the front of the queue today . indeed , no other country have be able to secure an exemption from the tariff impose by the United States until today . in March , the United States Government announce tariff on steel , aluminium and auto . this be follow by an announcement of a global tariff , with the UK on the low rate of 10 % . throughout this period , the UK Government have be engage in an intensive and continue dialogue with the Government of the United States to advance the UK ' s national interest in this challenging and change global trading environment . the deal we have agree be the first step in deliver on the commitment make by my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister and President Trump in February to reach an economic deal in our respective national interest . first and foremost , the deal will protect UK job , while lay the groundwork for increase transatlantic trade and investment . as the Prime Minister have comment within the last hour , " this be job save … not job do . " to that end , I can inform the House that the deal we have secure secure reduction to the 25 % tariff impose by the United States on the UK car industry . UK export to the US will face a low tariff of 10 % for a quota of 100 , 000 vehicle . that be positive news for iconic british luxury brand such as Aston Martin , Bentley and McLaren , but it be also good news for our country ' s large vehicle manufacturer , Jaguar Land Rover , which employ 34 , 000 employee directly in the UK , with 135 , 000 further job in its wide supply chain . as the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders point out , the US be Britain ' s second large car export market . a deal like this be desperately need to support job and economic growth on both side of the Atlantic . furthermore , the deal secure the removal of the new tariff the US impose on steel and aluminium in March , through duty - free quota . it reinforce our commitment to the steel industry , follow our swift action last month to protect British Steel and its 2 , 500 employee . turn next to agriculture , for the first time ever , the deal will open up exclusive access for UK beef farmer to the US market . currently only a few other country , such as Australia , enjoy such access . this be a major opportunity for british farmer to increase their export to the world ' s large consumer market , help they to grow their business . let I be clear that the import of hormone - treat beef or chlorinate chicken will remain illegal . the deal we have sign today will protect british farmer and uphold our high animal welfare and environmental standard . any agricultural import come into the United Kingdom will have to meet our high SPS — sanitary and phytosanitary — standard . on economic security , the deal will ensure co - operation on non - market policy from third country , investment security and export control . with the United States Government , we will continue to advance the UK ' s national interest in key sector where discussion continue , such as pharmaceutical , semiconductor , critical mineral , copper , lumber and film production . we will seek the good possible deal and outcome for these vital part of our economy , and those work on our critical infrastructure . we have also commit to further negotiation on tariff reduction to enhance the UK - US trading relationship . without this Government ' s swift action , the economic impact of US tariff would , candidly , have be extremely severe . follow agreement on the outline of the deal today , there will now be a process of formal negotiation with the US on a bind legal framework . the negotiation aim to deliver an ambitious set of outcome in area such as digital trade , tackle non - tariff barrier , agree mutual recognition agreement for industrial good and an agreement on domestic service regulation , collaborate on economic security , and uphold standard in area such as intellectual property and labour practice . I can , of course , confirm to the House that hon . member will have the chance to scrutinise the deal we agree with the United States Government , as well as legislation implement the deal . to reiterate what the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade have tell the House , we be not seek to change exist statutory scrutiny process . it be vital that Parliament have the opportunity to make its voice hear on this important set of issue . I be pleased to confirm that the Secretary of State yesterday brief the First Ministers of Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland on progress in the negotiation . we will continue to work closely with the devolved government throughout the negotiation that will follow today ' s announcement . as a government , we be grateful to business across the United Kingdom for their extensive and continued engagement in recent week , and look forward to continue that engagement through the remain negotiation . I would also like to place on record the Government ' s gratitude for the work of official here in London and in Washington for their effort in secure the first stage of this agreement today . it will have escape nobody ' s attention in this House that this agreement with the United States have be reach on the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe Day . that victory be secure not simply by the heroism and courage of the british armed force , but by strong transatlantic alliance that have serve we well over the eight subsequent decade . in the come year , the Government of the United Kingdom will continue to work to secure international agreement that uphold our national interest . for all those reason , I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you for ensure that the House have the opportunity to hear this statement today , Mr Speaker . free trade better we all . it have lift billion from poverty and have make we the country we be today , and the country that have the ability to join the fight for Europe ' s freedom 80 year ago . unfortunately , this be not the historic free trade deal we be promise . any reduction in tariff be welcome , but british business be still face high tariff now than they do in February . this be not the deal we be promise , and the Government still have much work to do . let we be crystal clear : it be our freedom to make our own trade policy that make even today ' s deal possible . I hope the Government be now convert to our cause , and regret the 48 time they try to take we back into the European Union . as the Government limber up for their surrender summit later this month , I ask the Minister to rule out today — once and for all — any form of dynamic alignment . we be the only party whose position on trade with the United States have be consistent . when the Conservatives publish the opportunity for a deal in 2020 , the now Prime Minister say he would never countenance an agreement , the now Education Secretary call it foolish , and the now Energy Secretary say it be a spectre hang over we . the Conservatives do welcome the news of a reduction in select tariff on thing like automotive export and steel today . any reduction be well than no reduction ; job and investment be at risk , and all mitigation be to be welcome . however , if I have understand the Minister correctly , we be still not back to the position as it be at the beginning of February . perhaps he can clarify that british good will still be more expensive in the US than they be before — for all the talk of the special relationship , that put we in the same category as country like Burundi and Bhutan . More than what be in this deal today be what be not . from the little the Government have share , it be clear that it do not go anywhere near far enough . it be a Diet Coke deal — not the real thing . it be not the comprehensive free trade agreement that a true plan for growth require . what about the film and television industry , which be be threaten early this week with a 100 % tariff ? can the Minister assure we now that there will be no such imposition ? what be the price of this deal ? will the Minister set out clearly to the House the trade - off that have be make ? I note with concern that two day on , we have still not have sight of the detail of the UK - India trade deal . will the Minister confirm when we can expect to see the full detail of both deal ? how do this deal defend our beef , lamb , pork and poultry farmer , with not just word , but action ? do it protect the special status of Northern Ireland , and do it cover the british overseas territory ? in the meantime , while business continue to suffer and struggle with elevated US tariff and as they face quota and uncertainty , will the Minister finally take step with his colleague to ease the burden his Government choose to impose on they ? will he announce a pause of the devastating job tax until a full trade agreement can be conclude and stop the surge in business rate so many business be face , and will he finally shelve the unemployment Bill that be already see british business cut job and choke under 300 page of incoming red tape ? lastly , will he ask the Prime Minister to sack his Energy Secretary and finally produce a real policy to cut energy price to globally competitive level ? if the Government be serious about help business , now be the time . what we see be that once again , when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . where to begin , Mr Speaker ? as I seek to reflect in my statement , and as the Prime Minister remark only a few minute ago , " this be job save … not job do . " it be significant that two former conservative Prime Ministers — the former Members for Henley and for Maidenhead , as I recollect — seek and fail to deliver a US trade deal , in the same way that the former Government fail to deliver a deal with India . important though it be to hear the view of the Opposition about trade deal that be not do , I think it be also important to hear from the Government about trade deal that have actually be do . I be grateful , none the less , that the shadow Secretary of State find it in himself to welcome the tariff reduction that have be achieve . I think there will be relief at JLR in particular this evening that the calm , cool - head approach take by the Prime Minister and the negotiator have yield a significant reduction of tariff to a critical supply chain and a critical set of british exporter . on Brexit , I respectfully say that this House have debate Brexit innumerable time over the year since 2016 . I simply observe that we as a Government be more interested in new market than in old argument , and that there have be plenty of opportunity to rehearse those old argument . I can also assure the House that , as we look ahead to the first EU - UK summit on 19 May , have deliver deal with India and the United States , we be now look to reset that relationship with our friend , neighbour and partner in the EU , not least because three of our five large trading partner be actually member of the European Union . on the specific point about the film industry , we continue to negotiate on the UK ' s behalf — [ interruption . ] the shadow Secretary of State , who be chuntere from a sedentary position , seem to suggest that we can unilaterally declare the policy of the United States . negotiation involve two party . that be a lesson that the Conservatives could have learn when they fail to secure a US trade deal in the past . it be by listen and work together with our partner in the United States that we have be able to make progress today . as the Prime Minister say : " this be job save … not job do . " there be further work to be do , and we fully intend to take that work forward . on agriculture , I think it be important to say that the red line that we maintain consistently in relation to SPS measure have be protect . I be grateful to have the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs on the Front Bench with I . we have maintain those critical animal welfare standard . all of the speculation in relation to chlorinate chicken or hormone - inject beef have turn out to be unfounded . it be important to recognise what be agree today . let I be clear to the House : this agreement will provide the United States with an initial tariff rate quota on beef of 10 , 000 tonne , increase by 1 , 000 tonne per year to a cap of 13 , 000 tonne . let I put that in context for the House and for those on the Conservative Front Bench . the previous Government agree under the UK - Australia FTA to a beef tariff rate quota of 35 , 000 tonne per year , which incrementally increase to — wait for it — 110 , 000 tonne per year , and ultimately become unlimited , subject to the safeguard regime . a sense of balance , proportion and understanding be require when discuss not only the safeguard that have be maintain and protect by the British Government , but the deal that have be strike in relation to beef . we need to keep the market access grant to the United States in the context of the wide economic benefit that this deal have secure for the United Kingdom . on the rather diminish political point that the shadow Secretary of State seek to make in relation to domestic legislation , I can assure he that the domestic legislation and the programme of the british Government remain unchanged as a consequence of today ' s landmark deal . as far as I be aware , that be also the case in relation to the membership of the Cabinet . I be very relieved to say that it be the Prime Minister who be in charge of choose member of the Cabinet , not the Conservative party , although the shadow Secretary of State do have a distinguished record of service alongside Liz Truss in a previous Government . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker , for help to ensure that this moment be possible . let I add my congratulation to my right hon . friend and to his Majesty ' s ambassador in Washington , Lord Mandelson , for get this deal do . it would appear tonight that a small , common - sense retreat on duty and agriculture have unlock a major reprieve for ten of thousand of job in our car and steel industry . will the Minister clarify for we tonight when those tariff reduction will kick in ? will he confirm that there be nothing in this bargain that compromise our ability to strike the bold of reset with the European Union ? it would be a mistake to strengthen transatlantic relationship and then short - change cross - channel possibility . can the Minister confirm that he will facilitate a debate in this House , if not a vote on the treaty ? on Tuesday , I will recommend to the Select Committee that we commence a full inquiry into this treaty , so that we can report back to the House , but a vote would help we understand who stand where in stand up and protect british job . let I begin by pay tribute to my right hon . friend ' s long - stand interest in Jaguar Land Rover and the wide west midland economy and to the diligent and demand work he do on the Business and Trade Committee , which make a major contribution to not only trade policy but business policy here in the United Kingdom . to clarify the point my right hon . Friend make on the auto industry , the UK export around 100 , 000 car a year to the United States , and this quota will ensure that most manufacturer now pay the preferential rate . the agreement have remove the 25 % tariff that the US apply to UK car on 2 April . the agreement have be welcome by the UK auto industry in the last couple of hour , include by Jaguar Land Rover , which be the large exporter to the US . we be committed to continue to support the automotive industry , which be a point my right hon . friend have make powerfully in recent day . on his second point , I can assure my right hon . friend that notwithstanding the significant progress we have make in relation to the United States — as I say , job save but job not yet do — a great deal of work be continue on the UK - EU summit that be due to take place on 19 May . he be right to recognise the importance of twin - track our approach , as it be , by recognise the salience and significance of the United States as the country that be comfortably our large single trading partner while recognise the European Union as our large trading bloc , which cover about 46 % of our trade . turn to the economic security aspect of the deal , I pay particular tribute to the work of my right hon . friend , as I know this issue have be of great interest to the Business and Trade Committee . I think he will take a lot of encouragement from what emerge in the agreement , specifically in relation to export control and investment security . one might almost think that the negotiator have be read his Substack . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . sadly , the world have change dramatically in the few month since Donald Trump take office in the White House . we need to reflect on the share value we have with key country across the world . we need to look to Canada and stand up to Trump as it have do , and we need to make sure that we build economic relationship with country such as Canada , Australia and the country in the European Union — all country that share our value . I be pleased that the Minister speak of scrutiny , because we must ensure that there be scrutiny . we need a vote in this House on these proposal . we need to protect the NHS and ensure that we be not sell our farmer down the river . we must also ensure that there be no cut to taxis on high - tech industry , which the US may be push for . will the Minister address the matter of a vote in this House ? that would be extremely helpful . Donald Trump tend to be a weathervane , and he could come back for more . I also feel for our pharmaceutical industry , so what assurance can the Minister give they ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . on the case he make for see trade as not simply a bilateral issue but a multilateral issue , I think there be a broad consensus across the House . as well as the work we have take forward in relation to the United States today , we continue to work with friend and partner in a range of different fora , include the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership and the European Union . on his specific question about scrutiny of trade within this House , I echo the confirmation that the Prime Minister give in the Commons only a few day ago that we be not anticipate any change to the process of scrutiny for trade matter in the House . on the two substantive political point , first , it be worth the House recognise that there be no change to the United Kingdom ' s digital service tax as a consequence of the agreement reach today . secondly , I know that there have be widespread concern not only on the liberal Democrat Benches but right across the House about measure to tackle the evil of online harm , but I can confirm again there have be no change as a consequence of the agreement reach with the United States . order . I thank the Minister for come forward with his statement , but the Table Office have not receive a copy of it . I be wonder where it be and when we will see copy of it . can it be hand in so we can get it print for member ? let we move on to Dame Meg Hillier . I add my congratulation to the Secretary of State and the team at the Department as well as our team of official under Lord Mandelson in Washington . this be a major step forward in a short time . give how long trade agreement normally take , this be an impressive step . however , as have be mention , we know that President Trump have make rattle sound about tariff on the film industry . the creative and technical business in my constituency who contribute to our film industry be obviously nervous about that . will the Minister reassure we that he be put his shoulder to the wheel on this issue and not rest on his laurel on the triumph achieve so far ? Mr Speaker , on your point , I apologise again for the statement not be available . as be clear from my initial remark , there be some confusion within Government as to the good way to proceed , but I hope that through my official we will provide it to you as a matter of immediacy . order . just so that we completely understand , the Government decide they be make a statement , so there be no possibility of anything else . the House be suspend and have to resume ; we could not leave it in limbo forever . the point be that there be a statement come . thankfully , the Minister make a statement . hopefully , we can get copy of the statement to everyone . I be bother about we be in danger of send people home , say that there be to be no statement . that be never , ever the case . I be disappointed that member be advise to leave the building 30 minute ago on the claim that there be to be no statement . Mr Speaker , the responsibility be ours , and for that I apologise . I hope that through my official we will be able to furnish the House with the statement that be request . in relation to my hon . friend ' s question , I assure she that it be not my personal style or the departmental habit to rest on laurel . it will not have pass her notice that it have be a somewhat busy few month in relation to trade policy , not least give the historic change in the global trading environment we be experience on a daily basis . notwithstanding that turbulence and the challenge in relation to trade policy , it be a matter of quiet satisfaction that we be able to get the India deal over the line early this week . through that process of quiet , engaged , diligent diplomacy and a great deal of hard work by official , negotiator and other , we have be able to secure this agreement today . but I assure she that the work go on . I call the Father of the House . in the trumpian philosophy that be " the Art of the Deal " , you bully your opponent and then , two month later , withdraw some of the threat , and they kneel down in adoration while they be reduce to where they be before . that be where we be . we be celebrate the end of the second world war . before the second world war , people could walk from Lincoln to Grimsby across derelict farm . I want a real assurance from the Minister that he will protect our beef farmer , because this be the start of an attack by America on our beef farmer . as so often in the past , the Government will always act in the national interest in protect Britain ' s farmer and our food security . I would rehearse the number that I share . if the right hon . Member be concerned about the volume of access to the UK market , I respectfully suggest that that might be a question for he to direct to his Conservative Front Benchers . under the UK - Australia free trade agreement , a beef tariff quota of 35 , 000 tonne a year be agree , which increase to 110 , 000 tonne after 10 year . in contrast , what have be agree with the United States today will provide it with an initial tariff quota on beef of 10 , 000 tonne , rise by 1 , 000 tonne a year to a cap of 13 , 000 tonne . in relation to the right hon . member ' s observation on " the Art of the Deal " — there be a great deal of commentary on that in pretty much every newspaper at the moment — my compass tend to be " the Art of War " by Sun Tzu , rather than " the Art of the Deal . " Sun Tzu , as the right hon . member , as a learned and wise individual , will be aware , say : " tactic without strategy be the noise before defeat . " I observe that in the eight year since Brexit , the previous Government do not publish a trade strategy . like bus , we wait age — year — for a trade deal with a major global partner , and then two come along at once , within a week . it be a major vote of confidence for the position of Great Britain on the global stage . with a bit of d é j à vu , I commend again the Minister , the Labour Government and in particular the Prime Minister for the calm and collect manner in which they have consolidate this agreement when , by the way , other fail for year . while market be up and tariff be significantly down because of the announcement of this agreement , will the Minister confirm how this UK - US trade deal will benefit my Slough constituent and lead to economic growth and job ? as a former Secretary of State for Transport , I be always nervous as to whether bus turn up or not , but I appreciate the analogy . it have be a busy week for the Government and for the Department for Business and Trade , but it be right to recognise that , by happy coincidence , we have see both the India and US deal agree within a couple of day . however , those couple of day be precede by many month of quiet work and diplomacy , and that be why my hon . friend be entirely right to recognise the Prime Minister ' s personal contribution to the agreement , with Prime Minister Modi and now with President Trump . after the clown show that we have witness in recent year and the cavalcade of chaos that we see under previous government , when I see that image of the Prime Minister sit alongside President Trump in the Oval Office a couple of month back , I feel what I judge be a widespread sentiment among the british public , which be a sense of relief that we have a serious man in what be undoubtedly serious time . the serious man — the serious Prime Minister — have engage in serious diplomacy to get to this agreement today , and as he recognise , with the reduction in tariff that have be secure , not least in relation to the auto industry and the supply chain that stretch to many part of the United Kingdom , there will be significant benefit for the United Kingdom as a result . I welcome this deal . the politic and detail aside , it be worth acknowledge that the Prime Minister ' s strategy towards the US — low - key diplomacy , mediation - lead over the past few month — have lead the United Kingdom to the front of the queue . in addition to Peter Mandelson , I would thank Varun Chandra , civil servant and other for get we to this position . what practical support can the Minister provide in assistance for business and farmer in North Yorkshire to take advantage of this deal ? let I pay tribute to the right hon . Gentleman . I notice his tweet — I be not sure if one call it that or x — early this afternoon , which reflect his question and which speak to a wisdom , maturity and experience in recognise the british Government ' s work . I genuinely appreciate the graciousness with which he make that public observation , even before do so in the Chamber . I echo exactly the sentiment that the right hon . Gentleman have describe in relation not just to the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade and Ministers , but to those individual in the british system , both in Washington and in London , who have be work pretty much flat out to try to secure an outcome to the benefit of the United Kingdom . on the opportunity for british farmer , the right hon . Gentleman be right to recognise that , far from some of the concern that we have hear from member on the Front Bench , there be significant opportunity for the UK give the reciprocal character of the agreement reach today . we will work as the Department of Business and Trade with our colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to ensure that british farmer be fully apprise of the opportunity that the new market access potentially offer to they . may I congratulate my right hon . friend and his team on the second major trade deal in a matter of day ? our agricultural sector , our automotive sector and our steel sector will all be grateful . I have learn to be wary of enthusiastic post from President Trump on the subject of trade , but this really do seem to be a win , win , win . as my right hon . Friend say , there be more to be do and negotiation carry on . will he confirm , as the Minister for Future Digital Economy and Online Safety do to my Select Committee , that online harm be not on the negotiating table ? can he say whether the digital service tax be on the negotiating table ? can he also say a little bit about the issue about labour practice that he mention in his statement ? I thank my hon . friend for her focus and concern , regard both the work on online harm and the digital service tax . as I seek to reflect early , those remain undisturbed and unchanged by this agreement . we have listen carefully to the concern from different part of the House on online harm , and we have work hard to advance the UK ' s national interest in the agreement that be reach . I be also grateful to my hon . friend for recognise the significance of the move in tariff in relation to steel and aluminium , which , again , represent a significant benefit to the foundation of the UK economy . in that sense , we work hard in the course of this deal , not just for automotive and the supply chain , but for steel and aluminium . one area that be important to this country and worth billion of pound be defence . what change will the deal bring to the propose defence industrial strategy for the big prime and for small and medium - sized enterprise , which this government , and all of we , want to support ? only in recent day I have be involve in discussion , notwithstanding the work we have be do on India and the United States , in relation to the defence component of the industrial strategy . we aim to bring the industrial strategy and its defence component to the public in the come week and month . a huge amount of work be happen within Government . the hon . member be right to recognise that one of the challenge be how we can have defence procurement in the United Kingdom that do not simply reward some of our outstanding prime , but recognise that the character of modern warfare be change , whereby we be move from a small number of large platform be the central feature to a large number of small platform . we can look , for example , at drone technology in Ukraine and the transformative effect on the battlespace . we be therefore deeply mindful of the point he make : we need to ensure , in term of defence procurement , that we have a whole - economy effort that recognise not least the digital and technological contribution of modern warfare . Digital be a key part of the agreement we have reach today , and we will work closely with the United States to advance our share interest . thank you for make this statement possible , Mr Speaker . I welcome this statement and congratulate the Minister , the Labour Government and all our official in the UK and US who have work incredibly hard on this , as he say , over several month . I say in the statement on the India free trade deal early this week that this be in contrast to the abject failure of the Conservatives , who do not deliver any deal at all . yesterday , the Mayor of the West Midlands , Richard Parker , publish a report prepare by Steve Rigby of the Rigby Group , which detail a hit of £ 6 . 2 billion to the west midland GDP from US automotive tariff . the report also say that a deal within 45 day be absolutely essential , and that an imperfect deal be well than a delay deal . do the Minister agree that this deal be a total vindication of the Prime Minister ' s approach to work in the spirit of co - operation with our partner in the USA and Europe to deliver a deal that would benefit the whole of the UK ? let I first pay tribute to my hon . friend for his tireless effort in promote the economic development of and opportunity for his constituency . I last speak with Richard Parker only two or three week ago when we be together . I be fully aware — not least give his background with PwC , as I recollect — that he be deeply invest in economic development and the opportunity for the west midland , and he have bring that commercial acuman to bear already in office . on the west midland , perhaps the signature feature of today ' s announcement will be the benefit accrue to Jaguar Land Rover , as well as to other luxury car exporter to the United States . give the scale of Jaguar Land Rover production within the United Kingdom and the reliance on the US market , it be critical that we work under the huge pressure of time to deliver a cut in tariff affect auto . in that sense , the quota agree today and the reduction in the tariff level will be a real and meaningful benefit to JLR and its supply chain . may I congratulate the Prime Minister on this trade deal ? it be an historic moment . I believe that it be in the national interest , but of course we will have to see the detail , and the devil be in the detail . it appear from the statement that there be lot of detail still to be work out . I also pay tribute to Lord Mandelson , our ambassador in the United States . the Minister mention manage to keep red line around hormone - rear beef and chlorinate chicken , and of course that be mention by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) . he also mention lamb — I do not think the Minister mention lamb — which be important to Shropshire farmer . what have not be mention be antibiotic in pig . this nation eat a lot of pork . a lot of that be rear in Shropshire . could the Minister assure Shropshire and british farmer that the pig industry in this country be still safe as a result of this deal ? I hope I can give the right hon . Gentleman the assurance that he seek . the SPS arrangement be , as I say , an absolute red line for the United Kingdom . we be keen , both in public and in private , to reinforce the Government ' s continue focus on uphold animal welfare standard here in the United Kingdom . in relation to his broad point about the deal , I be grateful that he have bring his experience and expertise to bear in the House in his judgment that , go by even this initial setting out of the deal , it be clearly in the national interest that we be in a position to have a quota allow a reduce rate for the export of UK car , for example . we would otherwise have be look at very serious consequence for major british manufacturer . I be grateful to he for his generous word . I will ensure that Lord Mandelson , as I be now oblige to call he , be make aware of the right hon . Gentleman ' s generous tribute — he be never averse to receive compliment . I commend the Minister for his statement , and I wish to put on record my thank to he , the Prime Minister and our excellent trade negotiator . the Minister have speak a lot about tariff so far , but might he talk about the non - tariff and non - quota trade barrier to further economic development between the United Kingdom and the United States , and about where we will go in the ongoing negotiation ? it have be a feature of the last few month , since the President be elect , that people have think that trade policy and tariff be synonymous . my hon . friend be exactly right to recognise that a grow proportion of trade be conduct electronically . the UK be an almost 81 % service - base economy . we therefore have a huge interest in non - tariff barrier — not just barrier at the border but barrier behind the border . that be an area of focus in the agreement , and one that will require further work , as be appropriate and right . we be work under huge time pressure to address the tariff issue , for the reason I have set out , but he be entirely right to recognise that we will take forward an ambitious agenda on non - tariff barrier . although a reduction in tariff be welcome , the past four month have show the UK Government that President Trump be an unreliable partner , not just in trade but in defence and security , climate and the international rule of law . in contrast , close relation with our trust ally in the EU have never be more important . give that Trump have previously describe the EU as " a foe " , " very nasty " and " an atrocity " , will the Minister provide an unequivocal assurance that there be no condition whatsoever attach to the deal that will constrain the UK ' s relationship with the EU , which be the UK ' s large trading partner ? I can do no well than refer to the Prime Minister ' s Mansion House speech towards the end of last year , when he say clearly that we do not want to have to choose between our friend and ally — between deal and work constructively with the European Union and with the United States . on the hon . Gentleman ' s broad point , it be important to recognise that the United States be our deep and strong defence ally . for the past 80 year — we should remember the day on which we be gather — the United Kingdom have work hand in glove with the armed force of the United States to keep the world safe . I see for myself , in previous conflict such as Afghanistan , the extraordinary heroism and courage that american service personnel bring to bear alongside british personnel , so it be right to recognise that , as well as take forward this economic agreement , there be a strong and endure security foundation to the relationship between the United States and the United Kingdom . all that say , of course we stand ready to work with the European Union as we look ahead to the UK - EU summit on 19 May . the hon . Gentleman ask whether there be any condition . the single big concern express by many commentator relate to SPS , give that that be one of the key agricultural area on which the previous Government founder in their negotiation with the first Trump Administration . that be a red line for we in these negotiation — a red line that I be glad to say we have protect . I thank the Minister , the Prime Minister , Lord Mandelson and all involve in this work for get the deal over the line . unlike some Opposition Members , who seem intent on talk down the Government ' s positive work and our country , I find the deal really positive . do the Minister agree that this trade deal , the one with India and the fall in interest rate announce by the Bank of England be positive sign that the Government ' s plan for change be work and will start to benefit people in my constituency and across the country ? I thank my hon . friend for his generous roll - call of honour . it would probably do my career prospect in the Department for Business and Trade some benefit if I add the Secretary of State to his roll - call of Lord Mandelson and the Prime Minister . of course , the late cut in interest rate from the Bank of England will be welcome by hard - press family seek to make their mortgage payment in community right across the country . as I say early , the Prime Minister have comment on today ' s US agreement that it be " job save … not job do . " the work go on in relation to sort out the fiscal mess that we inherit and raise the trend rate of growth , but I hope that both the US deal today and the cut in interest rate will be welcome in all part of the House and the country . I be sure the Minister will agree that the economic landscape have change dramatically since 26 March : we have have the trade deal with India , we have have today ' s pact with the United States , the Employment Rights Bill will come into law later this year , and there be much more besides . in the interest of transparency to this House , and indeed to the country , will he request a summer forecast update from the Office for Budget Responsibility that incorporate all the late update and let we know what the public finance impact will be ? as a mere Minister of Trade , I be not sure the Treasury would look kindly on I tell the OBR when to update its forecast . I be a Trade Minister , not a Treasury Minister , but I have note the hon . Lady ' s observation . she be entirely right that the economic landscape have change . it be right to recognise that many of the promise that be make in the past about we see major trading bloc bring barrier down have be set aside in recent month and year , and we be see major trading bloc put barrier up . that be why today ' s deal be so significant . I congratulate the Minister and this Labour Government on achieve not just one trade deal but two historic deal in the space of a week . I be a vegetarian , but many of my constituent like nothing well than a chicken curry on the street of Southall Broadway . can the Minister categorically assure the House that this deal will protect our british food standard and , in particular , that chlorinate chicken and hormone - inject beef will remain illegal in this country ? first , I be grateful for the catch - all congratulation to the whole government ; it be a sentiment I heartily endorse , and I will ensure it be hear by other colleague . in relation to my hon . friend ' s substantive point , I can assure she that curry be not just a favourite in Ealing Southall ; in most of our major metropolitan city , there be nothing quite as british as a chicken tikka masala . that be a huge tribute to the 1 . 9 million people of indian heritage who live in the United Kingdom and the immense contribution they have make over the decade not just to our cuisine , but to our country . she raise a really important point in relation to chlorinate chicken and hormone - inject beef . there be a lot of genuine concern before this agreement be reach today , and I can give the House the assurance she be seek that there be nothing in this deal that compromise the safety standard of either poultry or beef . we be clear that that be a red line , and we have deliver on that red line . I thank the Minister for his statement . there have be a great deal of reassurance for the car industry and agriculture , but there have be no mention of the Scotch whisky industry or the drink and food industry in general . in Edinburgh , as in much of Scotland , that be a huge concern . should we expect detail next week , or be there assurance he can give we now ? the hon . Lady be entirely right to raise the importance of the Scotch whisky industry , and I say that as a Member with a constituency interest : I have the Glenkinchie distillery in my east lothian constituency , which I be delighted to say the Chancellor of the Exchequer visit this week , in the light of the deal that be strike with India . in relation to this deal with the United States , it be right to recognise that further work and negotiation will continue , not least in relation to some of the broad sector that it do not cover . it be also right to recognise , in this week of all week , the extraordinary significance of the indian trade deal that be strike for the Scotch Whisky Association . member need not take my word for it ; they can look at the word of the chief executive of the Scotch Whisky Association , who describe in glow term the significance of the indian market and the precipitate decline in the tariff that we have secure in that deal . we have more to do , but broadly this have be recognise as a very significant and positive week not just for scottish whisky , but for scottish salmon and , I be delighted to say , Irn - Bru , which will also benefit from access to the indian market . in the Vatican , in the last hour , the cardinal have elect a new Pope ; and we wish the new Holy Father well , and give thank for the life of Pope Francis . of course , we send our good wish to the Catholic community in Newcastle - under - Lyme and up and down our United Kingdom . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and the confirmation that he have give several time to colleague that import of hormone - treat beef and chlorinate chicken will remain illegal under this deal . that be good news , and important for my farmer in Newcastle - under - Lyme and farmer up and down the country . will the Minister expand a little far on what exact engagement take place with farmer and their representative before this deal be agree , and what support will be pledge to farmer now , because that be important to my farmer and those up and down the country ? I fully appreciate my hon . friend ' s observation . I be unaware on arrive in the Chamber that a successor to Pope Francis , who be greatly grieve and miss on both side of the House , have now be announce , and of course we wish the new pontiff well in the spiritual leadership that role will require — and I say that as a proud Presbyterian and member of the Church of Scotland . on the broad point about engagement with farmer , I also have a farming constituency , and I be on a farm in east Lothian only last Friday , hear directly from farmer about the impact of the market challenge face by farmer not just here but internationally . through our colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , there be a lot of engagement regularly with farmer . naturally and appropriately , that Department be involve in the cross - whitehall process that lead to the negotiator be able to reach agreement today , and I fully anticipate further opportunity for dialogue with farmer in the future . we have have huge amount of tariff put on the UK , and then a trade deal to reduce they ; there have be positive impact on some industry , and potentially negative impact on other . today ' s announcement of a UK - US trade deal have therefore give rise to more question than answer . on one side , we have US official hail the deal as " dramatically increase " access to the UK agricultural market , which I be sure will ring alarm bell for many . on the other side , we have the UK Government claim that the agreement be balanced and fair . first , will the Minister categorially confirm that no reduction to UK food standard , environmental protection — which have not be mention yet — and animal welfare rule have be concede in this agreement ? secondly , what be the true impact of the tariff arrangement on british farmer and grower ? we have hear vague claim of reciprocal access , but have the Government conduct any assessment of the economic impact for UK farmer , their practice and their opportunity ? I listen carefully to the hon . Gentleman ' s comment , and early on he mention a trade deal to reduce tariff ; that be exactly the deal we have seek to secure and have secure today . he be right to recognise that there be continue challenge , not just for the UK but for many country , in relation to protectionism and high tariff rate , but today represent significant progress on the term , as I have describe . on animal welfare and food standard , I reassure he about everything I have say on sanitary and phytosanitary measure ; we make that a red line and be very clear about it , and be unwilling to compromise . I also assure he that there be nothing vague about the reciprocity I describe in term of the opportunity for beef farmer . I be grateful to the Minister for his confirmation that this deal will not in any way undermine the nation ' s SPS rule and regulation , but I be sure that he will acknowledge that there will be a degree of nervousness among british and indeed Welsh farmer , especially beef farmer , for although the tariff rate quota agree be modest compare with that agree under the New Zealand and Australia trade deal , it do of course come as an addition , and farmer will be worried about the cumulative impact . I think the Minister have mention this , but will he confirm that the 13 , 000 tonne represent the maximum tariff quota for beef that have be agree , and have any tariff quota be agree for lamb , pork and poultry ? forgive I : I be shuffle through my paper and miss the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , but I be happy to write to he . he be absolutely right , I can assure he , to recognise that compare to the tariff quota agree under the Australia deal , negotiate by the then Prime Minister , the former Member for Henley , there be much more proportionality — a much more modest increase — anticipate under the quota in the agreement reach today . I recognise his point that there be continue challenge for farmer in the United Kingdom , and we will continue to seek to address those . I welcome the Minister ' s clarification on chlorine - wash chicken and hormone - treat beef , but will there be protection in place for egg product ? hen raise in battery cage be illegal in this country , but not elsewhere in the world , so will it be illegal to import egg product from hen raise in those poor condition elsewhere ? we have not compromise our animal welfare standard in any aspect of what we have agree on behalf of the United Kingdom today . thank you , Mr Speaker , for drag the Minister to the House tonight to explain the term of the deal . after hammer farm with the family farm tax , it now look like Labour be sell our farmer down the river , allow cheap , low - quality import from the United States . President Trump ' s Secretary of Agriculture have say : " this deal put our great American Agricultural Producers first ! " be she wrong ? it be hardly a surprise that a member of the Trump Administration should talk about America first . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the north star by which we have negotiate be the UK ' s national interest . today ' s agreement reflect the quiet but determined diplomacy of a serious Prime Minister to deliver a deal . the hon . Gentleman ' s party do not have a great track record on serious Prime Ministers , or on beef quota . to put today ' s announcement in context , the hon . Gentleman ' s Government agree to a UK - Australia FTA with a beef tariff rate quota of 35 , 000 tonne per year . that might be a point that he want to make to farmer in the Borders . Welsh farmer have be reap the reward of high beef price over the past few year . that have be the one piece of good news in the industry . they now hear that another Government have sign another trade deal allow even more beef import into our country . why have the Government decide to include beef import in the deal , and to kick our farmer in the tooth again ? I simply do not recognise the aeriate contribution that the hon . Gentleman have make . he have an important and legitimate role in represent farmer in his constituency and more broadly , but I assure he that if he look at the number , include the quota agree by the previous Government , and the relatively modest shift in the tariff rate quota on beef that have be agree today , his concern will be allay . I hope that the Minister will recognise why UK farmer might raise an eyebrow at the assurance that he have give to the House . they have be let down time and again since July through this Government ' s policy on the family farm tax , the sustainable farming incentive , double cab pick - up and fertiliser tax — the list go on and on . Brooke Rollins , the US Secretary of Agriculture , say after the deal be announce that " it can ' t be understate … how important this deal be " for american farmer , and that it will " exponentially increase " US beef export to the UK . the Minister will understand why that raise concern for our farmer . will he assure farmer up and down the country that in any further trade negotiation with the US , their interest , livelihood and future will not be on the table ? it would be remiss of I not to start my answer to the hon . Lady with anything other than humble congratulation on her time in the London marathon . have run it twice , I would have see she at the starting line , but that would have be the last time I see she . it be a minor consolation to I that my time be somewhat fast than that of the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . all that be say , she make a serious point about british farmer . I assure she that the interest of british farmer , rural Britain and the wide agricultural sector be a constant feature of our thinking in Government . despite the reassurance from the Minister , many farmer in Glastonbury and Somerton will feel really anxious about be throw under a bus yet again as a result of this trade deal , especially after the trade deal agree by former conservative Governments with Australia and New Zealand , which undermine british farmer and food standard . can the Minister give a cast - iron guarantee that this deal with the US will not undermine british farmer ? what measure will he put in place to ensure that low - quality , low - welfare product do not enter the UK ? I reiterate the point that I seek to make early . import of hormone - treat beef or chlorinate chicken will remain illegal . the deal we have sign today will protect british farmer and uphold our high standard of welfare and environmental standard . any agricultural import come into the United Kingdom will have to meet our high and continue SPS standard . I can put it no more clearly than that . East Hampshire farmer will be relieve to hear what the Minister have say about food standard , include on hormone - treat beef and chlorinate chicken , after everything that have happen to they in the last period . obviously we will have to see the detail , and see what else be in the agreement . I will ask about online safety . the Minister have say already that there have be no change to the digital service tax and no rowing back on the online safety regulatory regime . can he confirm that no commitment have be make that would curtail the freedom of this House to make further change in this area ? on today of all day , I will not suggest that there should be any fetter or constraint whatsoever on this House when it come to introduce legislation on online harm , or any other issue . can I just say that I never want to be put in this position again ? I remind people that before we send Members home , we ought to think to tell they that there will not be a statement . I think that be bad . the Chair of the Select Committee complain to I , because he be tell to go away . we should not be do this . in this House , we need to work together . this House should be respect . I will stand up for the Back Benchers . please never put I in this position again . on behalf of this House and all the Roman Catholics across the United Kingdom , particularly in Chorley and Lancashire , I wish the new pope well . Adjournment Resolved , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) House adjourn .