Oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark what his plan be for the disposal of HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark . neither HMS Albion nor HMS Bulwark be due to go to sea ahead of their out - of - service date in 2033 and 2034 . the Royal Navy be explore option to sell both HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark in a Government - to - Government sale . several potential customer have show interest , but no final decision have be make . give that HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark be reportedly be sell to another navy for a figure that could well undervalue previous spend on refit and maintenance , how do the Minister justify the economic impact of their sale on Plymouth and Devonport dockyard , let alone the reduction in amphibious capability in the Navy , when the promise multi - role support ship be at least half a decade away from service ? I do not recognise any of the figure that have be bandy around in the newspaper ; it would not be accurate to take they as anything other than speculation . the disposal show that we be deliver for defence by divest ourselves of old capability to make way for the future , as the First Sea Lord Admiral Ben Key put it . those ship be effectively mothball by the previous Government , so I will not take any lesson from Conservative member on how to deal with these matter . defence Spending in which financial year he plan to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . in which financial year he plan to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . the Government be elect on a firm commitment to set a path to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp . the Prime Minister have say that we will do so in the spring . so that my constituent can well understand the Government ' s priority , which do the Minister think that we will achieve first : a deal to lease Diego Garcia for billion of pound , or spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence ? everyone agree that we must increase defence spending to meet the increase threat . this government be deliver for defence by increase defence spending , and we have already increase defence spending by almost £ 3 billion next year . it be clear that we face increasingly volatile and dangerous global security challenge , which be why the previous Government set a path to 2 . 5 % of gdp be spend on defence by 2030 . what conversation have the Minister and official at the Ministry of Defence have with NATO counterpart , particularly from the United States , on increase defence spending ? what implication do he think his party ' s lack of timeline for reach 2 . 5 % will have on the special relationship , give the new US Administration ? this country be at the forefront of defence spending in NATO , and we be ready to increase it to 2 . 5 % of gdp . the hon . Lady talk about the previous Government ' s plan for 2 . 5 % of GDP . I have to tell she that that be an election gimmick , announce four week before the Prime Minister call the election ; the Institute for Fiscal Studies describe it as " mislead " , and the Institute for Government describe it as " a work of fiction . " this Labour Government have give our armed service their big pay rise in almost 20 year . I have speak to service personnel in my constituency , and those who be part of the armed force parliamentary scheme . they talk about pay , but they also talk about service condition and support for their family be key driver of retention . what be the Government do on those matter ? I be proud to be the Defence Secretary who have be able , this year , to give the armed force the large pay rise in over 20 year . I be proud to have be able to do the deal that have see 36 , 000 force family home bring back into public control , so that we can develop they for the future . this Government will reset the nation ' s contract with those who serve and the family who support they . in my time in the Army , I see at first hand bloke not get the kit and equipment that they need to operate efficiently . it anger I to read this weekend that the previous Administration waste £ 5 million on McClaren mudflap . will the Secretary of State promise I that he will not take the — [ interruption . ] order . Shadow Secretary of State , you will have the Floor after the next two question , but I have not call you yet . come on , Mr Stone . to return to my question , I anger I that the previous Administration waste £ 5 million , when bloke like I do not have the kit and equipment that they need to operate — [ interruption . ] that be a fact . will the Secretary of State promise I that he will put service personnel and our nation ' s security first ? order . I think you need an Adjournment debate . my hon . friend speak from experience in the Rifles , and he be completely right . the issue be not just how much we spend , but how we spend it . the Government be deliver for defence by get a grip of defence budget , tackle Ministry of Defence waste and invest in the kit that our frontline service people need . we scrap the £ 40 million vip helicopter deal , we have end the pointless race car sponsorship , and we have save £ 300 million from an out - of - control consultancy spend . when the UK persuade NATO to spend 2 % of gdp on defence in 2014 , just two other country do so ; now , 23 country do . do the Secretary of State agree that it be time once again for the UK to play a leadership role in Europe by persuade NATO to spend the money it should and keep America part of the alliance ? I do indeed . it be time for the UK and european ally to step up and do more of the heavy lifting . that include increase defence spending , so that we can meet the threat that we face , and , as I have discuss with the new Defence Secretary in the US , boost our defence industry on both side of the Atlantic . in the light of the grow threat face our United Kingdom , it be genuinely shocking to read at the weekend that Conservative Defence Ministers spend taxpayer ' money sponsor a race car . my constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire South be livid about the waste of their taxpayer ' money . can the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that he will continue his action to root out every aspect of wasteful spending in the Ministry of Defence ? I can indeed . we have to get a grip of out - of - control defence waste and out - of - control defence budget . I be pleased to have be able to put an end to that pointless race car deal , which deliver free race - day ticket and MOD - sponsor branded mudflap instead of the kit that our frontline troop need . of course , the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , be the Minister responsible for that deal — he agree the contract and tell the House that it be a " brilliant partnership " . I call the shadow Secretary of State . you will know , Mr Speaker , the importance of secure communication , and this be defence question , so before I ask my question , may I say that Conservative Members be send all the Ministry of Defence ' s answer to our oral question in advance ? I do not know whether we should be grateful or concerned . we have be forewarn . I think that Ministers think up the answer themselves . you have shock I . I think that it would benefit the House to know that , give the importance of secure communication . I turn to my question , which involve secure communication . it say everything about the Government ' s priority that they be delay increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % , but accelerate their terrible Chagos deal , at a cost of up to £ 18 billion . last week , the Prime Minister justify the deal by state that without it , " the base can not operate in practical term as it should " . no . 10 later brief that that be a reference to satellite link . be the Secretary of State seriously suggest that there be an operational threat to US and UK military satellite communication at Diego Garcia ? this be a question about defence spending . we have a cast - iron commitment to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp — a level that the UK have not spend on defence since 2010 , under the last Labour Government . on the Chagos deal , this be a military base that be vital to our national security . the Prime Minister be right to say that its legal certainty have be call into doubt . that be bad for our national security and a gift to our adversary . that be why we look for a deal that would safeguard the operation for at least the next century . when the Prime Minister say that the base " can not operate " , he be refer to operation . that imply that there must be some kind of direct threat to satellite communication on Diego Garcia . the world will have see that the Secretary of State have not defend that position — he be not lean into it in any way — which make we think this : give that the former Foreign Secretary Lord Cameron and the previous Defence Secretary Grant Shapps see the same intelligence and reject the deal , which have since get bad and more expensive , be not the obvious thing to scrap it , and to spend every penny that be save on our armed force ? the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague , of course , be responsible for 11 round of negotiation on the deal , and the Prime Minister ' s point be that a lack of long - term legal certainty cast into doubt the operational security of the base . this deal will secure an operational guarantee for at least a century . undersea Infrastructure what step he be take to protect undersea infrastructure . what step he be take to protect undersea infrastructure . what step he be take to protect critical undersea infrastructure . the Government be deliver for defence with strong measure to protect our underwater critical national infrastructure . we have declassify the activity of the russian spy ship Yantar . we have call out its activity by say , " we see you . we know what you ' re do , " and we will robustly defend our critical national infrastructure . the Secretary of State agree that the threat to critical undersea infrastructure be serious , so will he prioritise development of underwater capability , such as uncrewed system , include under pillar 2 of AUKUS , and will he increase research and development investment into system that could protect that critical undersea infrastructure ? I be grateful for the hon . member ' s question — it be a good one . we be see more risk pose to our critical underwater infrastructure by player who wish harm to our national security . we already have brilliant capability in RFA Proteus , which be able to support our infrastructure and that of our ally . when the strategic defence review be publish in the spring , I be sure that there will be more development in that direction . the Secretary of State recently outline to this House the serious situation with the Yantar — a clear example of the threat pose to our critical undersea infrastructure , and of the work that we need to do to defend ourselves and deter potential attack . do that not show that we need to increase our defence spending as quickly as possible to defend our crucial infrastructure and protect national security ? the hon . member be right . we be increase our defence spending . in the Budget , we increase defence spending by £ 3 billion , and in the spring , after the publication of the strategic defence review , we will set out a path to spend 2 . 5 % of our gdp on defence . our undersea cable be critical to the economy , public service and social order in this country . give the hostile activity undertake — the surveying of our cable — can minister give assurance that the full need of our Navy will be reflect in the strategic defence review , so that we can defend our homeland security ? as a Navy brat and representative of a naval constituency , that be foremost in my mind . it be not just the Royal Navy that defend our critical national infrastructure ; in the case of the Yantar , that be do by the RAF , the Royal Fleet Auxiliary and the Royal Navy , as well as a joint integrate operation of all our force work together to defend our interest . anyone threaten our infrastructure should be in no doubt that the UK possess formidable capability to defend itself — and we will . last week , I have the privilege of visit his Majesty ' s naval base Clyde with a number of my colleague from across the House . will the Secretary of State reassure the House that he be work with the Scottish Government to address the capacity and retention issue at the base , and that the Scottish Government be engage positively on the industrial defence strategy ? Clyde be an important base for our national security . it be one of our critical military asset , and we work closely on it , not just with the Scottish Government and local council , but across the entirety of Government . the success of our defence do not rely just on the action and decision of the Ministry of Defence ; it be a whole - of - Government approach that keep our nation safe . in these more difficult time , we will ask for more of a whole - of - Government approach , to ensure that the man and woman of our fighting force , and the civilian who support they , have what they need to keep our nation safe . the propose AQUIND interconnector between France and England will slice through my constituency , cause huge disruption , but of more significant concern be the fact that the Ministry of Defence have raise serious national security concern about the propose submarine power cable . do the Minister agree that we can not do anything to jeopardise our national security , and will he formally lodge an objection with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , who will consider the proposal ? I be familiar with the campaign work of my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , who have raise similar concern . if the right hon . Lady write to I about that , I will be happy to meet she to discuss it far . I welcome the strength of the response on protect our undersea infrastructure . the Defence Secretary have be clear that grow russian aggression will not be tolerate here or in Ukraine . will the Minister confirm that homeland security will be a key focus of the strategic defence review ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we live in more difficult and uncertain time , with increase risk to UK homeland security . that be an evolution from some of the strategic assessment in previous review . it be for that reason that the strategic defence review be look not only at how we support our NATO ally , with a NATO - first approach , but at how we invest in capability to ensure that we be look after the UK homeland — and , Mr Speaker , the UK homeland include our overseas territory . we have stretch that answer out well , haven ' t we ? let we go on to Tom Tugendhat . Armed Forces : death - in - service payment if he will have discussion with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the potential merit of remove taxation from death - in - service payment . if he will have discussion with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the potential merit of remove taxation from death - in - service payment . I thank the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) for his important question . he have my absolute assurance that if anyone die in service , from train all the way through to combat and operation , they will absolutely be exempt from inheritance tax provision . I will continue to discuss that issue , as well as many other to do with armed force pay , with my opposite number in the Treasury . this Government be deeply proud of the armed force , and I be deeply proud of they . they will have my full backing as we move forward . first of all , I place on record my full congratulation to the hon . and gallant Member for his recent award in the new year ' s honours . that be a fantastic achievement for somebody for whom I have the great admiration , and with whom I have serve in numerous field . may I raise the problem with his answer , however ? retention in the armed force be already suffer ; number be already come down and people be struggle to make the math add up between serve today and have a future tomorrow . the problem with these argument and the lack of clarity from the Government be that too many people be make decision on which we all need they to think again . we need people to serve and stay , and it be his responsibility to keep they there . I thank the right hon . and gallant Member for his response . we need to take a holistic view of this . I remind he that we have miss every recruitment and retention target for the past 14 year . we be work really hard to get after that now : we have just put in place wraparound welfare , we have do the Annington Homes deal , we have put additional resource into veteran ' home for after service , and we have give the big pay rise in 20 year . we be work really hard on that , in discussion with our Treasury counterpart , and we will move it forward . will the Minister give an assurance that the propose change to the application of inheritance tax to certain armed force death - in - service payment be compatible with the commitment in the armed force covenant to ensure that our brave and loyal armed force personnel " face no disadvantage compare to other citizen in the provision of public and commercial service " — yes or no ? the covenant will come into law in the next two year or so , on the back of the armed force Bill . that will result in a great expansion , with all Government Departments fall in line with the covenant , so that no individual who have serve be disadvantage because of that service . I call the shadow Minister . the Forces Pension Society have already state that levy inheritance tax on death - in - service benefit would be wholly counter to the armed force covenant , and we Conservatives wholly agree . the consultation by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs on that proposal close on 22 January . on what day do the MOD submit its response to that key consultation — presumably in defence of service family ' interest — and will the Minister place a copy of that response in the Library ? may I remind the right hon . member of my service , and of the fact that I will in no way , shape or form take this for grant ? I be put all my effort into those discussion at the moment . my official have discuss that with the Treasury , I have discuss it with the Treasury , and we will continue to discuss such issue with the Treasury to ensure that our armed force personnel get the deal that they deserve . I commend the Minister on his Distinguished Service Order — we all do — but in answer to a parliamentary question , we be tell : " the Ministry of Defence have not make a formal response to HM Revenue and Customs ' technical consultation . " it really should have do . who in their right mind would soldier for a Government who do not have their back , whether on school fee , lawfare or inheritance tax , or bad , do not have the back of their family if they die unmarried and in service ? score political point on the back of armed force family be unacceptable . this be a public consultation , and it be not the Government ' s responsibility to answer it . we have discuss this Department to Department , from both an official perspective and a ministerial perspective , and we will continue to do so . we will bring this to a close . US Commitment to NATO whether he have have discussion with official in the US Administration on its commitment to NATO . I hold the first call with the new US Secretary of Defence , Pete Hegseth , last month . we discuss the importance of all NATO ally do more , include on defence spending . I look forward to meet Secretary Hegseth this week at the meeting of NATO Defence Ministers . member of this House have raise concern about the impact on Ukraine of both the new US Administration and continue russian aggression . can the Secretary of State assure I that he will use the upcoming Munich security conference to determine with ally the good way of ensure Ukraine ' s victory ? I can indeed . I welcome the fact , as I think will the hon . Lady , that the new US Defence Secretary be spend his third full week in office in Europe . he have make it clear that he want to discuss how to strengthen alliance , how to expand our defence industry on both side of the Atlantic , and how to boost allied defence spending , include on Ukraine . that be something we all agree on . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s answer , but in the face of wide russian aggression , could he expand on what conversation he have already have with NATO counterpart about how NATO can respond appropriately to the threat from Russia ? I can indeed . everyone in NATO , include every one of the european ally within NATO , be ready and be step up on Euro - atlantic security . this Wednesday I will have the privilege of chair the Ukraine defence contact group , a 50 nation - strong group in which we co - ordinate the support that Ukraine need , because we must stay with Ukraine for as long as it take . Military Support for Ukraine what his plan timetable be for the annual provision of £ 3 billion of military support to Ukraine . the Government have commit to maintain £ 3 billion in military aid to Ukraine this year , next year , and each year for as long as it take . I come back from Ukraine a week and a half ago . I be very close to the front and talk to many of the military commander there , and they make it very clear to I that they be desperately short of artillery piece , 155 mm , and , most importantly , munition — they could hardly respond to the Russians . as I understand it , they be also short of c - RAM — counter - rocket , artillery and mortar — defence missile , which be desperately need to protect Ukraine ' s energy site and its civilian ' flat and house . that hardware have be promise by many european nation , and of course by the USA — and I must say that when you be that close to the front , Mr Speaker , you realise how desperate it be there . in the light of this delay , will the Government commit the UK to at least provide the sort of weaponry that it can provide to alleviate that problem as far as humanly possible , but mostly to push our ally to do what they promise to do ? from what I hear , without that hardware , Ukraine run the risk of lose this war . I welcome the fact that the right hon . Gentleman go to Ukraine . he be there with my hon . friend the Member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) , and I look forward to meet they both later this month to discuss the detail of what they see . from my second day in this job , when I be in Odessa with President Zelensky , I make the commitment that the UK would step up and speed up support for Ukraine , which be exactly what we have do . that will be part of the discussion we will have with other nation at the meeting I will chair on Wednesday , and I be sure it will also be part of our discussion at NATO on Thursday . along with many hon . member on both side of the House , I welcome the £ 3 billion commitment to Ukraine this year , next year and the year after , but there be thing that we can do at home as well . for example , this weekend I hope to host a reception for ukrainian refugee in my constituency — a Valentine ' s for Ukraine that we can send from all of we to all of they and all the Ukrainians who be find refuge in our country . I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s action in his constituency . the UK have a proud unity on Ukraine , and it have give a proud welcome to Ukrainians under the Homes for Ukraine scheme since day one of Putin ' s illegal full - scale invasion . as my hon . Friend say , nearly three year into the conflict , Valentine ' s day be a useful marker to recognise the warmth of welcome from the UK people and the struggle and fight that the ukrainian people — military and civilian alike — be wage for their freedom and their future . Armed Forces Recruitment what step he be take to help increase recruitment to the armed force . what step he be take to help increase recruitment to the armed force . what step he be take to help increase recruitment to the armed force . the Government be deliver for Defence by address the deep retention and recruitment crisis that we inherit from the Conservatives . last week I announce more detail on a brand - new fast - track cyber entry to boost UK cyber - defence , bolster our capability in response to the grow threat and address a global shortage of cyber - talent . I also announce the award of a new contract for a tri - service armed force recruit service . West Herts college in my constituency offer a great selection of course , include compute course that offer a pathway to a career in cyber - security . for young people in Hemel Hempstead consider a career in that field to defend our country , can the Minister outline further detail of the step that he take last week to boost recruitment to cyber - security in this country ? I be grateful for the enthusiasm of young people in my hon . friend ' s constituency for a career in cyber . last week , the new cyber direct entry pathway for our armed force be open for the Royal Air Force and the Navy — the Army entry will come online next year . that allow people to join directly to pursue a career in cyber . by change the entry requirement , it will bring on board the cyber - expertise that we need to keep our country safe . the frontline of the future be not tomorrow ; it be today — it be the cyber - frontline . young people across the nation should look on the Royal Navy and RAF website at a career in cyber . it be well pay and will keep our country safe . I welcome the news that the MOD have sign the British Dyslexia Association ' s dyslexia - friendly workplace pledge . do the Minister agree that , to address the recruitment crisis , it be vital that the armed force remain inclusive for recruit from all background and with all experience , while rightly continue to demand high standard ? I be pleased to confirm that the Ministry of Defence sign the dyslexia - friendly workplace pledge at the end of last year , make we the first UK Government Department to do so . it be a fantastic step forward that signal that the MOD be a top employer for people with dyslexia . whatever someone ' s ability , there be a role for they within our armed force , because our armed force need people with a whole range of ability , background and expertise to keep our nation safe . in my constituency we be proud to host the Defence Medical Services at Whittington . we be look forward to a fresh date be set for a visit from my hon . friend the Minister for Veterans and People so that he can see its brilliant work for himself . what step be the Minister take to build on the success of such centre of excellence in any new recruitment programme ? it be vital that we seek to invest in Defence Medical Services , especially as we live in more difficult and contested time where we may need to use its expertise and that of the national health service across the UK to support a warfighting effort . I know the Minister for Veterans and People be look forward to visit Whittington later this year . I hope that when the strategic defence review come out , my hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) will see the path to investment and support that we be offer Defence Medical Services as we look to create a whole - of - society approach to our defence . soldier will be leave the Army , rather than be recruit , if we continue to allow the persecution of soldier who serve in Northern Ireland . last week ' s coroner ' s report into the Clonoe and Coalisland shooting be 51 page of fact and eight page of na ï ve speculation , which lead right into the IRA ' s attempt to rewrite the history of Northern Ireland . without the Northern Ireland legacy legislation , how will the Secretary of State prevent that , because if he fail , what should be a process of peace and reconciliation will turn into a vindictive , vengeful pursuit of man whose only sin be to serve their country with honour , heroism and skill , and in the most terrifying condition ? if we can not prevent that , all the recruiting effort will fail . I assure the right hon . Gentleman that his passion be also feel on the Government Benches , and the ministerial team want to support all our veteran . the issue that he raise be difficult for I to comment on as it be subject to ongoing legal matter , and he will appreciate that it be hard for a Minister to comment in such circumstance — order . I reassure the Minister that there be no legal restriction on this case . it be not the court ; it be only a coroner . thank you , Mr Speaker . I be grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s question none the less . the Ministry of Defence be continue our conversation with the Northern Ireland Office , which be the lead Department for such matter . we will continue to support our veteran , and we will continue conversation with the Northern Ireland veteran commissioner as to how we can support veteran in Northern Ireland in particular . follow on from the previous question , do the Minister accept that recruitment be bind to be disincentivise by a finding , 30 year on , that people who do their duty and encounter armed IRA terrorist on murderous active service , and protect the public as a consequence , find themselves vilify 30 year later by the coroner ' s service ? how can that be right , and what step will the Government take to protect our armed force not just now but go into the future , include what happen in the past ? this be a matter that the Ministry of Defence have discuss today with the Northern Ireland Office — it be a Northern Ireland Office lead , and we will be work closely with it on that . announcement have already be make in relation to this by the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and I reassure the hon . and learn Gentleman that a career in the armed force be a brilliant career for anyone look at it . this government will continue to support those people who serve , and those who have serve , to ensure that they get all the support they need to defend our country in service , and benefit from that service after they have leave uniform . far to the point make by right hon . and hon . member , if we be go to have recruitment , we need to have protection . if we be to have protection , we must ensure that the disgraceful scene — the SAS kill four IRA man who be return from a bombing and shoot attack on a police station , try to kill . the SAS be confront by those killer , murderer , terrorist scum that they be , who be armed to the tooth with a machine gun that could fire 500 round in a minute and an AK - 47 . be it not right that our soldier should be protect ? they be confront by the enemy . that enemy be never go to surrender , and they get their just desert . I reassure the hon . Gentleman that we on the Government Benches share the same passion that all veteran should get the support they need . we will continue to discuss that aspect with our Northern Ireland Office colleague , who take the lead on this matter . I encourage he to continue to raise question , because it be important that we support all our veteran , no matter where they serve across the United Kingdom . that be a matter that the Secretary of State and I , as well as the Minister for Veterans and People , will continue to discuss with colleague across the Government . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . if we want to strengthen our armed force , we must fix the recruitment delay . one young recruit signer , Jimmy , apply in September 2023 but will not start until January 2025 . that be largely due to medical record hold - up and poor communication . I welcome the aim for applicant to receive a decision within 10 day , and a training start date within 30 day , but how will Serco deliver that in practice ? what safeguard will be in place to ensure that recruit get clear , timely response and be not lose in the system ? the hon . Lady be right that we need to speed up the recruitment process . we inherit a situation where it take , on average , more than 250 day from the point of application to turn up at a training establishment , often without any understanding of how long that will take . that be why the Secretary of State introduce the 10 / 30 policy , which mean a provisional offer within 10 day of starting , and a provisional start date within 30 day of application . we be do that to reduce the time of flight , include work cross - Government to improve speed of access to medical record . there will be further announcement in due course . we be make progress on that , but there be a lot more to do to fix the damage to the recruitment process that be run by the last government . Afghan Resettlement Programme how many Afghans who work directly for british force have be relocate to the UK under the afghan resettlement programme . the afghan resettlement programme be a cross - government delivery programme that will bring exist resettlement scheme into one single pipeline . under such scheme , more than 30 , 000 eligible Afghans have relocate to the UK . as confirm in my recent write parliamentary answer to the hon . Gentleman , it be not possible to provide a breakdown of relocation figure by job role , include those who work directly for british force . have admit 30 , 000 Afghans into the country as part of the afghan resettlement programme , it be concern to learn that the Ministry of Defence have no idea how many of they actually ever work for british force . the Government ' s own figure estimate the total number of local Afghans employ by british force during Op Herrick to be around 7 , 000 , only 2 , 850 of whom work as interpreter and translator on the frontline — a fraction of the 30 , 000 . if the MOD do not know why they be eligible to be let into the country , the MOD presumably also do not know who they be or what they have be do in Afghanistan over the past decade . can the Minister confirm that the afghan resettlement programme have not be exploit by criminal , terrorist or hostile state influence ? can I thank the hon . Gentleman not just for that question , but for his ongoing interest in this area ? we owe a debt of gratitude to those people who serve alongside our force in Afghanistan . this programme be start by the last government , and this Government be proud to continue it . everyone who be bring to safety in the UK from the Taliban under the afghan scheme have be vet in relation to that . there be a variety of role that cover support to our armed force in relation to our UK mission in Afghanistan , but I can reassure he that I pay close attention to this area . if he would like to meet to discuss this far , to deepen his interest and to help he in his inquiry , I be happy to do so . Minority Groups in the Armed Forces what step he be take to support minority group in the armed force . why do we support a more diverse military ? it be simple : it make we well , it make we think differently and , importantly , it mean the military represent the society we be try to protect . since come into government , we have launch our raise our Standards programme . we be seek to make Defence the most attractive employer for all walk of society . I will be unequivocally clear that the underlie principle for why we pursue a more diverse military , well welfare , well housing , and well kit and equipment , be simply to ensure that we can call upon our man and woman to do their job and that they can close with the enemy and win . in 2019 , the Wigston review identify that serve personnel from ethnic minority background be subject to high level of harassment and bullying than their white british counterpart . give the recent success of the Atherton review , which cast light on the structural challenge face by woman in the armed force , and give that 16 % of the british Army workforce come from ethnic minority group , do the ministerial team think it might be time to have an Atherton - style review , independent of the MOD , into the challenge face by ethnic minority group to ensure and enhance recruitment , retention and promotional opportunity ? I thank the hon . member for his useful comment . we have launch our raise our Standards programme , which will take standard from where they be and raise they . we will make Defence the most inclusive career and , indeed , the most rewarding for any part of society to join . the Defence Committee will hold we to account on some of that . when the covenant come into place , that will also cover certain element of standard , too . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . recent week have see troubling headline for LGBT personnel , and we on the Lib Dem Benches believe that everyone be welcome in our armed force , regardless of their sexual orientation , ethnicity or gender identity . can the Minister outline what step have be take to promote the british value of inclusion , particularly for the LGBT community , among our NATO ally ? will the Minister provide an update on the compensation scheme for LGBT veteran who be impact by the military ' s anti - gay ban ? when we start the Etherton review , a lot of engagement go out across some of our NATO ally to take good practice . now that we have launch the programme , we be also make sure that people can understand the success and perhaps some of the improvement as it progress . as the House will know , the Defence Secretary announce our finding from the Etherton review on 12 December , with a 50 % increase in the financial redress system for those affect by the LGBT ban . thing be now head in the right direction , with more than 500 people start the application process . New Medium Helicopter what his plan timetable be for award the new medium helicopter contract . the new medium helicopter competition be at the evaluation and approval stage . if everything go well , I anticipate a contract award later this year , subject to all the usual approval . a significant number of my constituent contribute to the defence sector , whether through apprenticeship , graduate role or skilled employment . many be school in West Dorset and now work in the surround area , include for firm such as Leonardo in the neighbouring constituency of Yeovil . what assurance can the Minister give that contract such as the new medium helicopter will be award quickly so that the future of the many apprentice and employee in the defence sector be protect ? the hon . Gentleman be right : some of these programme can take a long time to get to contract . in fact , this programme experience delay in secure outline business case approval under the previous Government . I hope that we can get it to the end of the line as swiftly as possible , in accordance with the current process , and that some of his constituent will benefit from have work to do on the new programme . Armed Forces 2030 Recruitment Target : woman what progress his Department have make on achieve a 30 % inflow of woman into the armed force by 2030 . we inherit a retention and recruitment crisis , which must be address across all different cohort . increase female representation benefit our warfighting and readiness , but we be still some way from where the hon . Lady and I would like we to be on the issue . the late figure from October 2024 show 11 . 9 % female representation in the regular force and 15 . 9 % in the reserve . a balanced workforce in the armed force be good for british defence , but woman still face a raft of challenge , make it hard to attract and retain female talent . what step be the Minister take to accelerate progress towards the woman in defence charter ambition of 30 % , and to make the armed force a well workplace for woman ? this be an important topic , and it really matter . implement the recommendation of the Atherton review and raise standard , as the Minister for Veterans and People have speak about , will benefit everyone in the armed force , but woman in particular . we need to improve culture and behaviour , and focus on woman ' s health and wellbeing . new policy be be bring forward to address that . we be also stand up more work on call out crime and behaviour that be unacceptable in our armed force . everyone should have a place in our armed force , because defend our country require a whole - of - society approach . we must not neglect any part of society . veteran ' Commissioner : England whether he plan to appoint a veteran ' commissioner for England . I reassure the hon . member that I work closely with my Northern Ireland , Welsh and scottish commissioner . we be currently look at the structure by which we support veteran across the whole tapestry of the United Kingdom , and we really want to put in place an institutional resilience system that give the good care at the right time and in the right place to the right people . that primarily involve work with thousand of charity collaboratively and coherently to ensure that we can get the good bang for our buck from all the amazing volunteer and charitable service out there . a big review be go on . it be on hold at the moment , and we will let the House know more in due course . I be proud that my constituency of South Northamptonshire host the large armed force gather of its kind in the UK . the national transition event at Silverstone on 24 February , now in its sixth year , be run by the charity Mission Motorsport and Mission Community . the event recognise , demonstrate and celebrate the value of our veteran and armed force community . as the Secretary of State develop the veteran strategy , be community - lead approach such as this part of the Department ' s thinking , and how might we support such organisation in their work ? absolutely . I just travel to the north - east of England and hit three different council , look at the different way in which they deal with the veteran issue . I be really look forward to the launch event , which will have a variety of different race car . I just hope that I do not get to see the mudflap when I be there . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . on behalf of we all , I wish our UK team in Canada good luck for the Invictus game . this week , I will have the privilege of chair the 50 - nation Ukraine defence contact group . I will also attend the meeting of NATO Defence Ministers , and then the Munich security conference . Mr Speaker , 2025 be the critical year for the war in Ukraine . the world be watch , and it be imperative that all ally step up their support . I be proud of the UK ' s continued unity and leadership on Ukraine . this year , the UK will provide £ 4 . 5 billion in military aid — more than ever before . our commitment be absolute . we will strengthen Ukraine on the battlefield and at any negotiating table . I be grateful to continue to have the support of both side of the House . together , we will stand with the people of Ukraine for as long as it take . US navy official have report increase russian and chinese patrol in the High North . last week , the danish navy announce plan to acquire three new Arctic patrol ship , and March will see one of the large exercise Joint Viking operation in NATO ' s history . with these concern in mind , will the Secretary of State confirm which UK asset will be involve in Joint Viking this year ? what plan do he have to update the 2022 policy paper on the UK ' s defence contribution in the High North ? my hon . friend be right about the High North . we will continue to maintain a strong defence profile and posture . both the Royal Navy and the Royal Fleet Auxiliary will be take part in Exercise Joint Viking . I call the shadow Secretary of State . surely , one of the most important lesson from the war in Ukraine for our own military base be the urgent need to fire up the defence industry and increase its capacity . however , today we learn from ADS that british defence manufacturer will be hit with a £ 600 million tax rise this Parliament from high national insurance . why be the Government prioritise high taxis on defence instead of high defence spending ? on the contrary , we be back british industry . we be look for firm that can design , invent and make in Britain — a big change from the industrial policy under the previous Government . I be in Derby recently to announce an eight - year contract for Rolls - Royce that will support more than 1 , 000 apprentice — 200 each year — and thousand of small business in supply chain across the country . I know all about the Unity deal because , as the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry say , I negotiate it . this be extraordinary complacency on tax from the Secretary of State . the Government be tax not just the defence industry but the education of defence people ' s child and death - in - service payment . the fact be that the Defence Secretary be under " a tax " from all side . the question be : be that how the Government will pay for their Chagos deal ? we step up and accelerate the negotiation to conclude the Rolls - Royce contract , and I be able to announce it the other week to apprentice and management at Rolls - Royce . we be put nearly £ 3 billion extra into defence this year . we recognise , as everyone do , that we must increase defence spending . we will return UK defence spending to a level that we have not see since Labour be last in government in 2010 , direct it first and foremost to british industry . this week be National Apprenticeship Week . I know from my constituent that apprenticeship be a vital and successful route into the workplace . will the Minister join I in welcome the 26 , 000 apprenticeship in the defence sector across the country ? will the Government continue to build the right skill and workforce of the future through apprenticeship ? I be very happy to acknowledge my hon . friend ' s point . I meet many apprentice late last week at the launch of National Apprenticeship Week . whichever factory I visit , I meet apprentice — young man and woman — who be thrill by the opportunity that a career in defence give they . they all have smile on their face and future in front of they . it be great that National Apprenticeship Week highlight all that . we press the Government to extend continuity of education allowance to 100 % for service family . we be tell that there would be no exemption from the depredation of the decision to impose vat on school fee , but it turn out that the child of american servicemen and woman be exempt . would it not be fair to extend that exemption to the man and woman who serve our country ? there be a long - stand deal with other nation on the welfare of family and so on . this government be support our armed force community . we will pay 90 % through the CEA . we have give service personnel the big pay rise , and we be address the recruitment and retention crisis that we be leave with . the Government be rightly proud of the man and woman who work in our defence industry . will the Minister join I in encourage excellent university such as Keele University in Newcastle - under - Lyme to work with our defence sector to create good job for local people , boost skill and safeguard our national security ? I be more than happy to join my hon . friend in make those point . he be right that we must fully support defence company and their personnel , and we must ensure that university such as Keele , and all other across the further and high education sector , welcome defence firm at their career fair . do the Secretary of State , his official and his chief have a plan to implement the additional resource from 2 . 5 % of gdp when it arrive ? if they do not , we will be face with lengthy delay while procurement plan be put in place . be this a case of ministerial prevarication , or be there a serious plan ? if 2 . 5 % arrive but there be no plan for procurement ready to hit the ground run , we will actually be no far forward than we be at 2 % . Mr Speaker , we have the commitment and we have the plan . I thank the Veterans Minister for recently visit Redditch for a roundtable , where he hear from veteran about the excellent work by the Redditch armed force and veteran breakfast club in bring together the community and signpost critical support . do he agree it be vital that the Government continue to work with such organisation to ensure that no veteran miss out on the support they deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the visit to Redditch be truly enlightening ; the charitable sector there be do amazing work to support veteran in his constituency . I fully champion the breakfast club they be put on . the United Kingdom have a strong defence industry worth £ 36 billion in export , which be important to company in my constituency , such as Collins Aerospace , Amentum and Chess Dynamics . the Government ' s commitment to strengthen UK - EU relation be especially welcome in this sector . what step be the Department take to boost export with our EU and NATO ally ? we be set out to reset relation with key european ally . we have say we will look to co - operate more closely with the European Union where that be in british interest and where we can add to the defence and security arrangement for Europe as a whole . we have strike some deep new bilateral agreement , such as the Trinity House agreement with Germany . we have to see our british industry not just as produce the kit our force need , but as an essential part of our deterrence that , alongside ally , deter aggression . last month , I host the annual dinner for former servicepeople in my constituency , where I meet score of people who serve our country proudly and bravely , like Councillor Clive Morgan . I will ask the Secretary of State the question they ask I , which become ever more urgent by the day : what be the Government do to boost the resilience of the general public in this country in an ever - more hostile world ? national resilience and defence in depth be essential as we move forward , when the threat be transfer from non - state actor to state actor across the globe . when the strategic defence review come out in the next couple of the month — in the spring — member will see that that be a central tenet throughout . last week , the Gurkha class of 2025 proudly attest in Pokhara . there be one part of the british armed force that do not yet have woman : the Brigade of Gurkhas . will minister do what — sadly , and not for the want of try — I fail to do , and rectify that omission ? I serve with the Gurkhas on various tour in Afghanistan and across the world . they be some of the good force we have , and they do a fantastic job uphold the freedom we enjoy . I will continue to work with the Gurkhas , and I look forward to meet their ambassador here very soon to discuss issue such as this . I thank the Government for improve the pay and housing condition of our armed force . Bishop Auckland have turn out some excellent young man and woman into the armed force , many of whom first go through our brilliant volunteer - lead cadet force . without wish to pre - empt the strategic defence review , will the Government commit to ensure strong funding for our local cadet ? we just talk about resilience and defence in depth . the cadet provide an example of where we can bring society and defence together to help people understand the benefit of defence . it give they some great example , from courage to commitment , dedication , drive and , indeed , become a net contributor to society . I fully support it . be the Government do any forward thinking — [ Laughter . ] no , I be be serious — about what will happen when the shooting stop with a ceasefire agreement in Ukraine ? wherever the border between free and occupy Ukraine finally form will become the new frontline for Europe , so what provision be we make , even now , to be able to secure the future shape and safety of Europe ? despite the titter on his own side , the right hon . Gentleman make a really important point . at the point at which Ukraine decide to talk instead of , or as well as , fight , security guarantee will need to be in place to ensure that Russia do not resume its aggression . in Washington last year , the NATO ally make a commitment that Ukraine be on an irreversible path to NATO membership , but there will be a period when during the talk , just as in the fight , they will require our support . we be give that detailed discussion now . on Thursday , my hon . and gallant Friend the Minister for Veterans and People come to my constituency for an important discussion on veteran ' mental health . may I ask he for his reflection on that discussion and on what action he will be take move forward ? first of all , I thank my hon . friend for host a fantastic get - together with veteran , bereaved family and the charitable sector . I learn a huge amount from the visit . I look again at how council be deliver support to veteran , which I can contrast and compare with other visit , and will come out with a plan in due course . the Secretary of State will have hear the exchange early about the grave injustice and slur that be deliver upon SAS personnel in the coroner ' s judgment last week , follow the incident in Clonoe . will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to indicate not only to the House but to service personnel and the nation that he , as Defence Secretary , support those who bravely serve in Northern Ireland and stand on the precipice between peace and tyranny ? I be glad to accept the right hon . Gentleman ' s invitation to do just that . it behove we all to remember that those who serve in our force in Northern Ireland be part of a campaign that lead to more death of UK security personnel in Northern Ireland than in Afghanistan . they deserve , and they will have , our full support . as seem to be the consensus of the House , our support for Ukraine must remain unwavering in the face of Putin ' s war of nationalist aggression . I be proud that this country retrofit Storm Shadow missile in my constituency . with an increasingly unstable geopolitical situation , do the Secretary of State agree that full co - operation with our NATO ally to defend Ukraine and guarantee the security of Europe continue to be integral in the defence of our own country ? my hon . friend point to one of the major item for discussion on Wednesday at the Ukraine defence contact group , and one of the main concern of NATO and the new Secretary - General , which be to boost the capacity of the european defence industry . the Eskdalemuir seismic array in my constituency monitor compliance with the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty . at the moment , there be a restriction on wind farm development in the vicinity of the array , but wind farm developer be lobby hard to have those restriction relax . can minister give a guarantee that they will not be relax if there be any suggestion that that would interfere with the array ' s effectiveness ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I be deal with this issue before I come to the House early today . support our national security be the no . 1 priority of the Government . we need to keep our nation safe . there be a variety of mean by which we do so , and the array be an important contributor . I would be very happy to meet he to discuss the detail of the issue he raise . as the Minister point out early , the Royal Fleet Auxiliary Service have take a prominent role in protect our subsea infrastructure . I welcome the settlement of the RFA pay dispute . will that help the Minister to tackle the recruitment and retention crisis that see number of RFA seafarer fall by 30 % under the previous Government ? it be vital that we value the Royal Fleet Auxiliary , and we have do so by settle the pay dispute and make it very clear that there be a bright future for seafarer in the RFA . its work with RFA Proteus in relation to the Yantar have be exceptional , but each and every day those seafarer be support our Royal Navy on global operation . they have the support of our ministerial team , and I be sure that they have the support of member on both side of the House . with the Russians use drone to drop CS gas into the trench of the Donbas , and Avon Protection in my constituency ready to manufacture the residue of the 300 , 000 gas mask that Ukraine request , will the Government put in an order as soon as possible , please ? we have take many step to try to improve the capability of the Ukrainians when it come to drone technology , and I be perfectly happy to look at the point that the hon . Gentleman have raise . Portsmouth be the home of the Royal Navy , but it be also the proud home of many company in the defence sector : BAE , Airbus and Accuracy International , to name just a few . those company provide fantastic job opportunity for my constituent , but they have face real difficulty in the last decade . what step be the Department take to support our defence sector in the UK and in Portsmouth in particular — both the business themselves and the recruitment and training of the skilled workforce — as part of our Government ' s industrial strategy ? I look forward to meet my hon . friend shortly when I visit some of those business in her constituency . the defence industrial strategy be the way in which we will seek to deal with the issue that she have raise . my constituent Owen be medically discharge from the Army after 17 year of service . since then , he have be wait for two year for a resolution of his claim under the armed force compensation scheme . do the Minister agree that that be too long to make a veteran wait , and what advice can he give I so that I can resolve my constituent ' s case ? we be absolutely a government who support veteran . if the hon . Gentleman will send I the detail of that case , I will look into it personally . we pay out over £ 1 billion in compensation , and I have be to Norcross to ensure good standard up there . I recently visit the Royal Orthopaedic hospital in my constituency , which have an outstanding veteran ’ care service . do the Minister agree that it be essential for former and current service personnel in Birmingham and beyond to continue to have access to specialised musculoskeletal rehabilitation service ? absolutely . Birmingham have a cluster of fantastic hospital and medical care facility , as well as the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine . I would love to visit , and I hope I can do so in due course . I think I be right in say that I be the only Member of the House of Commons , if not Parliament as a whole , to have mauritian heritage ; if I be wrong about that , I be happy to be correct . why do the Secretary of State not see that the propose deal between the United Kingdom and Mauritius be a dangerous one because of the increase in China ' s access to the island near Diego Garcia , an unaffordable one — whether it be £ 9 billion , £ 18 billion or £ 52 billion , that be money that should go to our armed force — and , above all , a humiliating one in the eye of the Mauritians , the Americans and the international community ? why will he not scrap it ? the deal with the Mauritians be design to secure the long - term operation and the legal base , and to guarantee our ability and that of our ally in the US to continue to operate from Diego Garcia for at least the next century . early in topical question , the Veterans Minister say that the strategic defence review would be publish in the next couple of month . can he confirm that it will be publish by the end of April ? it be a fair correction . I say " in a couple of month " and then " in the spring " . Rosebank and Jackdaw Oilfields ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero if he will make a statement on the ruling on the Rosebank and Jackdaw oilfield as unlawful . the Government ' s priority be to deliver a fair , orderly and prosperous transition in the North sea that recognise the role that oil and gas will play in the come decade . this transition will be in line with our climate and legal obligation . it will drive we towards our clean energy future of energy security , low bill and good , long - term job . on 29 January , the Court of Session publish its judgment on the Rosebank and Jackdaw oil and gas field in the North sea . the judgment set out that the previous consent grant to Rosebank and Jackdaw be unlawful , as they fail to take into account the emission from burn the fuel produce . as a result , if developer wish to proceed with these project , they will need to reapply for consent , this time consider scope 3 emission , as require by the Supreme Court judgment last year . although the judgment itself be a matter for the court , the Government have take rapid action . in early January , we consult on revised environmental guidance to take into account emission from burn extract oil and gas , to provide stability for industry . the consultation close on 8 July , and we be work towards publish the finalised guidance as soon as possible . once the guidance be in place , the Government will resume make decision with regard to the environmental impact assessment for offshore oil and gas development . the Court confirm that it be in the interest of good administration for the consultation and guidance to be complete properly . it would therefore be inappropriate for I to comment on the specific of individual project such as Rosebank and Jackdaw in Parliament or anywhere else , because do so would prejudice future regulatory decision making should the respective developer decide to resubmit these project for approval . more widely , this Government be determined to deliver the long - term job and investment and the clean energy future that this country need to ensure that people work in the North sea , and those involve in the oil and gas industry across this country , have the long - term future they need . rise — order . just for clarification , you do not have jurisdiction on the planning issue , and it be no long in the court , so I be a little bit confused by your assertion that you will be involve go forward . I be happy to provide clarification base on the advice that I have , which be that this be a matter for the applicant in the court case , who be entitle to appeal the judgment , should they wish to do so . if they wish to make a further application in this matter , my Department will be responsible for make that judgment , and I seek not to prejudice an application by give an opinion one way or the other on these matter . I hope that that sit well with you , Mr Speaker . well , kind of , but obviously member will want to ask you about this issue today , so I do not want to try to close it down too early . in August , this Government withdraw lawyer from the case defend the legal challenge to the issuing of licence for Rosebank and Jackdaw in the North sea . give this Government ' s decision to revoke any defence , the Court ' s quash of approval be all but inevitable . it be deeply disappointing and yet unsurprise that this government , drive by their zealotry , be happy to put billion of pound of investment , and thousand of job , at risk just because something do not align with just stop oil ' s vision of the future . it demonstrate that this Government be not willing to stand up for business or worker . the Labour party seem to misunderstand this simple point : if we shut down our oil and gas industry , we will not use any less oil and gas — even the Climate Change Committee know that . the Department seem to ignore the fact that we will simply rely on more import instead . if those import be liquify natural gas , they will come with four time the production emission , and if we import from Norway , we will be ship in gas from underneath the very same North sea . sacrifice our domestic industry , only to rely on foreign import and compound global carbon emission , be utter madness for our economy and for the climate . it make a mockery of our prospect for growth , and it will cost the Treasury £ 12 billion in lose revenue . to put that figure into perspective , it be equivalent to eight and a half year ' worth of winter fuel payment . last week the developer of Rosebank , Equinor , announce that it be slash its offshore wind investment . do the Minister appreciate that the self - harm inflict on the North sea be damage investment in other offshore renewable industry , too ? that could be wreck our path forward . the Government be utterly confused . the Chancellor and the Secretary of State be completely out of touch with the public , obviously , but apparently also with each other . it be no surprise that the Secretary of State be prepared to sacrifice growth and investment in energy security for his ideological obsession , so may I ask the Minister for clarity ? this be a very important point . will the Department treat the application , if they be resubmitte , as existing application or new application , give that it have a ban on all new licence move forward ? will the Government back growth and back british worker when the decision reach his Department , and who do he think will win this argument outright : the Secretary of State or the Chancellor of the Exchequer ? I thank the shadow Minister for his response , although I be not sure it be entirely constructive in this conversation . he know as well as anyone that the process be live , and the company involve in these two project have the right to apply in future . it would be wrong for I to prejudice those application , in the House of Commons or anywhere else , by state an opinion — new application ? I will come to the hon . Gentleman ' s question in a moment , but what he fail to mention be how we get to this position . the Court of Session clearly outline in its judgment that the previous Secretary of State have make a decision that be unlawful , so once again this Labour Government be have to clear up a mess create by the previous Conservative Government . unlike they , we will follow due process . as I outline , we consult on what the future of the consenting process would look like in light of the Supreme Court judgment . that be something he would have have to do if he be still in this job , because we have to respond to the Supreme Court judgment . if he be tell we now that , in government , he would have ignore the judgment of the Supreme Court , that be an interesting perspective to take . on the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point , we be clear during the election that our position be : no new licence to explore new field . the two project be in exist licensed field . the question for the court to decide be the consent for those individual new project , and that be the process that we will now take forward if those company should wish to resubmit their application . the broad question about the future of the North sea will be about not one or two individual project but the reality that it be a decline basin and that the long - term future do not rest in oil and gas , as important as they will continue to be for many year to come . what we have seek to do as a Government be to kick - start what the economic future will look like beyond oil and gas , recognise that the North sea be a decline basin , recognise the importance of new technology such as carbon capture and hydrogen and investing in measure such as the clean industry bonus that will deliver job in Aberdeen . there be only one party that be serious about work out what the transition look like and what come next to safeguard job in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and across the north - east , and it be not the conservative party . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank my hon . friend for confirm the Government ' s commitment to support production in exist North sea oil and gas field and for confirm the desire to partner closely with industry and worker on the transition away from fossil fuel . do he agree that the worker and community that rely on the North sea would be in a much strong position if we have not witness over the last decade a chaotic mismanagement of the decline in the basin that he have just refer to , and the failure to plan for the loss of 70 , 000 job in that decade alone ? the Chair of the Select Committee make an important point , which be that the failure to acknowledge that the transition be already under way be to bury your head in the sand and pretend that everything will carry on as it be . the reality be that in the past decade a third of the oil and gas workforce — 70 , 000 worker , as my hon . Friend say — have already lose their job and the transition be under way . we be determined to ensure not only that the transition lead to a future in the North sea energy sector that , yes , involve oil and gas for many year to come , but that we build the industry of the future now so that there be no gap . the alternative be to do what the previous Government do , which be to pretend that the transition be not under way and then somehow deal with the shock that would come when North sea oil and gas inevitably decline to the point where worker ’ job be not protect . we be determined to build what come next and to protect good , well - pay job in the North sea for many decade to come . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the decision that we make in the next decade on energy will make or break the planet , and this be also key for the Jackdaw and Rosebank oilfield . should the propose developer apply for a new development consent , the ruling give the Government the opportunity to take a rational , science - base approach and make a decision on the future of the field base on what be good for the planet , the people of Britain and the UK ' s international leadership . contrary to what have be say by the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , approve these oilfield this will not protect UK worker . despite promise of job , not a single UK design or construction role have be create . instead , that work have be outsource to Dubai . business leader agree that a fair transition away from oil and gas will boost our economy , create job and attract investment . the Liberal Democrats oppose the oilfield at Jackdaw and Rosebank . instead of pour money into an energy source that be not consistent with our climate commitment , we should be call on the Government to invest in renewable and an ambitious green energy strategy that lower cost , create job and secure our future . what assessment will the Minister make of our climate commitment ? for the reason I outline in previous answer , I will not comment specifically on these two project . in answer to the hon . Lady ' s broad point , any future application for the North sea have to recognise the Supreme Court ' s rule that the end - use emission , the scope 3 emission , must be take into account in any application . we be now work through the significant number of response to our consultation at the start of this year , on how people who wish to apply for consent to extract hydrocarbon from the continental shelf can comply with the Supreme Court ' s judgment . an environmental assessment will be absolutely necessary . that be not a decision we have make from a political point of view ; it be require by the Supreme Court . we will follow the law of this land , as I would expect any Government to do , although apparently not a Conservative Government . we will put in place a robust system to ensure that any application that come before we be judge fairly on their merit . I thank the Minister for his statement , constrain as it be by the legal situation . what a cheek the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) have . he come to the House pretend to be a hero and protector of the oil industry , when 70 , 000 job , as my hon . friend the Member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) point out , be lose on his government ' s watch . on the point at issue , there must be balance in the necessary transition from carbon to renewable . it be not an either / or . we have be in the North sea for two generation , and we will be there for two generation more as we wind down the basin . politic be often about symbol , and the renew consent for Rosebank and Jackdaw , if they come , offer an opportunity to reassure worker in this industry that they will not be leave behind when we plan for a fair and just transition from the old to the new . I thank my hon . friend for the tone of his question . this industry have many thousand of extremely talented , skilled and experienced worker , whom I have have the great privilege of meeting over the past seven month in this role . we have to ensure that we build a resilient industry for many decade to come . some of that will be the oil and gas that be already license and consent , and any other project that come through the process , but it will also be about build the industry that come next . it would be irresponsible of any Government to focus on one at the exclusion of the other . the reality be that the North sea be a super - mature basin . a transition be already under way , and it be incumbent on we — and on any responsible government — to build the industry that come next while continue to support the oil and gas industry that we have today . do the Minister agree that there be a double standard in the government back Heathrow expansion to drive economic growth , but not provide the maximum possible support for our domestic oil and gas industry ? the Chancellor be very clear in her speech that there be no conflict between our net zero commitment and the industrialisation that we want to see . economic growth project such as the runway at Heathrow will be important but , as the Chancellor say , they will have to be in line with our climate obligation . importantly , as my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) say , this be not an either / or . oil and gas will continue to play an important role in our economy for many year to come , but we have to plan for what come next and take cognisance of our legal and climate obligation . I urge the Minister and Labour colleague to take no lesson from the conservative party on a fair and just transition away from fossil fuel , because our coalfield community in this country be destroy by Tory Governments over decade . in contrast , we need to look at the growth we be now provide by lift the onshore wind ban , invest in carbon capture and storage , and establish GB Energy . order . where be the question ? I will find the question , Mr Speaker . my hon . friend be right that historical transition in key industry have leave worker high and dry , instead of recognise that a transition be under way and support that workforce into what come next . the coal industry devastate large part of my constituency in Lanarkshire , and area across England and Wales , which continue to have consequence for generation . we be determined that that will not happen with the North sea , but it require we to plan the transition and to put it in place now , not to bury our head in the sand and pretend everything be fine . what will worker in Scotland be think right now , as they watch the UK Government , and a Scottish Minister , go out of their way to accelerate the decline in North sea oil and gas job , in advance of replacement job come onstream , as they can see at Grangemouth ? do the Minister not understand that the reduction in attrition to North sea oil and gas production must be commensurate with a reduction in demand and an increase in renewable job ? he have get that mix all over the place . I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman be one of the Scottish National party cohort seek to move to our other Parliament , but the SNP ' s position in Holyrood be the same as our , which be that we must be cognisant of climate change obligation with regard to any new licence . perhaps he have a different position from his colleague in Holyrood — I be not sure — but the SNP recognise , rightly , as we do , that the future require investment in oil and gas for many year to come , to which we be committed , and that investment must match our climate obligation . the transition that be now under way must have Government at its heart , support the job and industry that come in the future . if the hon . Gentleman support some of the investment that we propose , such as at Great British Energy in Aberdeen , instead of deride it at every single turn — [ interruption . ] Mr Speaker , I have again unite all the Members of Parliament from north - east Scotland who oppose investment in their own constituency . if the hon . Gentleman support that investment , maybe he would see the job of the future come . under the previous Government , thousand upon thousand of job be lose in the North sea , energy bill hit record high and the Government put Britain ' s energy security in the hand of Vladimir Putin . have make a patently unlawful decision on Rosebank , the Conservatives be lecture we on energy policy . the truth be that our clean energy mission will deliver the job and economic growth of the future , our commitment to climate action and low bill . the conservative party be stick in the past . will the Minister remain focused on the future and deliver our clean energy mission , which will deliver the economic and environmental benefit the public want to see ? as my hon . Friend say , the long - term future of our energy security in this country be not in oil and gas , as important a part as it will continue to play for many year to come . the clean power mission that we be drive forward at pace be about build home - grow renewable power that will deliver energy security in the long term , although oil and gas will continue to play an important part for many year to come , not just in our energy mix but in our country ' s wide economic system . we will support the job and industry in north - east Scotland to ensure that transition be fair and prosperous for all . be I right in think that if the Government take the factor around emission into account in a future application , it will not be for the court to then say that have take they into account , the Government have arrive at the wrong decision in want to proceed ? surely , it be for the Government to decide whether to proceed , not the court ? we be still digest the detail of the judgment , but my understanding be that , as the right hon . Gentleman put it , the Supreme Court make it clear that application should take account of scope 3 emission . in the process that we put in place , which I will not pre - empt , we will have to justify how the application have meet that requirement . it will then be for the North Sea Transition Authority to make a judgment and the Secretary of State , ultimately , to make a decision . if somebody want to take that judgment to a judicial review , they could be entitle to do so , but the right hon . Gentleman be quite right that the decision will be for the Government . I thank the Minister for the thoughtful way in which he be proceed . we all recognise that climate change be a threat to growth rather than a driver of it , whether that be through flooding , fire or the chaos that it cause . it be therefore shocking that the previous Government do not take account of emission and the impact that they might have on our economy in make the decision to proceed with Rosebank , and it be right that we rethink that . I recognise what the Minister say about court judgment . may I press he , though ? his predecessor have to admit that there be no energy security in proceed with Rosebank because 80 % of the oil and gas that it would provide would not be for the UK market , so it would not drive down british consumer ’ bill . be that still his understanding of the project ? be that not another good reason why we should rethink it ? my hon . friend be right to make the point that climate change be not a future threat but a present reality . this year alone there have be a number of example around the world of that present reality already have a huge and devastating impact on people ' s life . on the balance that we want to strike , yes , the oil and gas industry be important to our economy and to our energy mix , but the long - term future require we to move towards clean power . even if gas be extract from the North sea , it do not help with consumer bill in this country , because it be trade on an open market to the high bidder and sell by private company . this be not a nationalised industry — it be own by private company , and gas be extract by private company and sell by private company — and consumer in this country do not benefit from their gas come from abroad or from the North sea . if the Minister will not comment on Rosebank or Jackdaw because of the threat of legal appeal , will he at least confirm that his Government will put a stop to extraction from a report 13 new oil and gas field that receive licence from the previous government but be still await their final consent ? I believe that they be not subject to the restriction that cause he not to want to comment on Rosebank and Jackdaw . to be clear , I be not suggest that I can not comment because of particular legal action . my Department will have responsibility for make the decision , and it would be wrong for I to prejudice that process by give my view on those application in Parliament or anywhere else . that be entirely how such application end up back in court , and that be what I be determined to avoid . we clearly outline the question of licensing at the election : we will not issue new licence to explore new field , exist licence will be honour , and we will not remove licence from field that already have a licence . however , consent — the point at which extraction take place — must take into account climate test , and not least the compatibility test lay down by the Supreme Court . any application now or in future must take account of that . the sixth carbon budget be put in place by the previous Government . it be pretty ambitious , and it be now for this government to identify how it will be achieve . the Minister seem to be take an entirely practical approach , and I commend he for that , but can he assure we that the Government will ensure that any new application will be approve only if they can achieve any offset or mitigation in their own right , so that we keep in line with the carbon budget that be in place , which we be legally oblige to achieve ? my hon . friend touch on some of the key question that we ask in the consultation , which close just a few week ago and to which we have a significant number of response . the Supreme Court ' s judgment require we to look at some of the test that he mention — particularly whether there be offset or mitigation — and we will announce how we will put that into effect in due course . on the guidance that come from the consultation , we have only just close the consultation and be work as fast as possible on the result from that . however , applicant for consent will absolutely have to take account of the scope 3 emission . it will be for they to outline in their application how they intend to mitigate any impact to achieve such consent . we have already see that if Rosebank do not go ahead £ 6 . 6 billion - worth of investment and 2 , 000 job will be lose . those 2 , 000 job be really important to we in the north - east of Scotland . they be there for sentiment and for confidence , and they be also to show that we have a future . at the moment , it feel like the north - east be be sell down the river and that any opportunity we have be be lose because the Government be so ideologically commit to move away from oil and gas now , as quickly as possible , and not to do that when it be right . be the Government still commit to job and security in the north - east of Scotland ? it do not feel like that , live up there . I gently say to the hon . Lady that it have nothing whatsoever to do with ideology — [ interruption . ] it be about the Government respond to a legal judgment of a court — not just the Court of Session in this particular case , but the Supreme Court — on a decision take by the previous Government to grant consent unlawfully . we now have to respond to that Supreme Court judgment and ensure that any future application process be robust and do not end up in the court again — that be what we be determined to do . it will be for individual applicant to bring forward their application . on the wide point on job , I be acutely aware of the importance of ensure that there be certainty in the north - east of Scotland . I have spend a lot of time in this job make an effort to get to know not just the individual company , but the supply chain , support company and those on apprenticeship that work in the north - east . it be important to I , as it be to the hon . Lady , but I say to she and her whole party that we can not move forward simply say that oil and gas be the only future for the north - east of Scotland . they be finite resource , and we be clearly say that the balance require we to start invest now in the transition , so that there be good well - pay job for many generation to come . I welcome what my hon . friend have say about the importance of the just transition and the need to move gradually to renewable . he quote from our party ' s manifesto that " we will not issue new licence to explore new field , " but I remind he that there be another part to that paragraph . it say : " because " — there be a reason for it — " they will not take a penny off bill , can not make we energy secure , and will only accelerate the worsen climate crisis . " can he confirm that the 3 million oil barrel that would come out of Rosebank would in fact not take a penny off bill , can not make we energy secure and would only worsen the climate crisis ? we have outline in the seven month we have be in government our determination to deliver the energy security that this country have lack in the past 14 year . the previous Government display a lack of preparedness not just for our energy security in future , but for the bill — high than ever before — that all our constituent pay and that lead to the cost of living crisis . that be because the Conservatives be happy to have we at the casino of fossil fuel price . we be determined that that will not be our future and that we will no long be in thrall to petrostate and dictator . even though very little of our gas come from those country , we remain vulnerable to the price set by international market . we be determined that that will not happen , and we be build the clean power system that will take we away from it . the Minister talk of the threat of the climate crisis and the need for we to meet our climate commitment , which be encouraging to hear . what step be the Government take right now to improve the energy efficiency of home across the UK to help we reduce our dependence on oil and gas ? I give credit to the hon . Lady for the ingenious way she get that important question into the urgent question . she make the good point that , as well as ensure we have build the clean power system for the need of the future , we want to reduce as much as possible the need for household to heat their home by make they much warm in the first place . we be do that by improve the standard of home through the work be do by the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) on the warm home plan . we know that some of the poor people in our country live in substandard home that be cold and that take far too much of their monthly budget to heat . we be determined to do something about that , as well as work across the piece on energy - efficiency measure that reduce demand in the year ahead . the remain global carbon budget be extremely small , amount to just five year ' worth of present global emission . there be significant evidence that burn all oil and gas in exist field globally would exceed the 1 . 5 ° C global limit . the climate pollution from burn Rosebank ' s reserve would be more than the combine annual co2 emission of all 28 of the low income country in the world . do the Minister agree that we should focus on a fair transition for our community and worker as we move to other form of energy , rather than give cpr to an already decline industry ? my hon . friend outline again the importance of tackle the climate crisis that be with we now . that be why the Government have be determine to move fast , through our clean power action plan and through the Department ' s wide work to decarbonise across our economy . that be incredibly important and we do not have a moment to waste . a fair transition be key to ensure that we move away from a carbon - base economy . we have already close the last of our coal power station , which be an important moment , and my visit to Ratcliffe on Soar be an important moment for I to recognise how a transition can be do well — [ interruption . ] I hear the shadow Minister , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , chuntere that that be do under a Conservative Government . it be an example of where the Conservative Government recognise that the coal industry be decline and that a transition be necessary , but he seem not to recognise that the same be true of the oil and gas industry , which be decline . if we do not start plan for that future now , we will leave those worker with nothing . the Government profess to want growth and job , yet they be give no incentive or indication whatsoever to the developer of Rosebank and Jackdaw that if they spend million of pound on a new application , the Government will or will not grant consent . as a result , those developer be much more likely to say , " I win ' t bother ; I ' ll invest my money elsewhere . " will the Minister give an indication — yes or no to a compliant application ? I think the hon . Gentleman seek to take I far beyond what I say at the beginning by ask I not just to give an opinion but to adjudicate on application , right here in the House of Commons , before either company have apply . I think he know fine well that I will not do that . we have put in place a robust process whereby the Supreme Court judgment will set out a clear pathway on exactly what company must do in future application . it be highly likely in this case that both company involve in those project will seek to apply again . they will do so and the Government will make a decision in due course . on the wide point about investment , the Government be do everything to make this one of the most investable place in the world to come and do business — that be important . our clean energy action plan , which he oppose , will deliver up to £ 40 billion of investment every single year in the industrial future of this country , and he should get behind it . I thank the Minister for his statement and appreciate his approach in not want to prejudice the judicial process . I wonder whether we would be discuss this if Conservative Members have have a similarly responsible approach to government . in very general term , do he agree that it be vital that the Government honour not just the letter but the spirit of our manifesto commitment , and that this proposal be originally approve over 20 year ago ? it be important to separate the question of licence in these two case from the consent process — licensing and consenting have always be different process . we have say that we will absolutely respect licence that have be issue . we have no plan to and will not revoke exist licence , but neither will we issue new licence to explore new field . as my hon . friend rightly say , there have be licence for those field for a very long time , and we will not revoke they . the question now be about specific consent application for those project . that will come before the Department when we have put in place the process to respond to the Supreme Court judgment , and when the company , if interested , re - submit their application . the Rosebank and Jackdaw oil and gas field could supply 8 % of the UK ' s gas need . the Minister have talk about the court case , but will he clarify why the Prime Minister let the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero take Government lawyer off the defence of this case ? if their push for growth be to mean anything , will the Government look again at change judicial review process ? on 20 June last year , the Supreme Court rule that regulator must consider the impact of burn extract oil and gas in the environmental impact assessment for new project . of course , we be already in an election cycle by that point . I do not know what the previous Government would have do , but a Supreme Court judgment give a very clear steer that regulator must consider that impact , so I find it very hard to believe that they would have continue to defend a case that the Supreme Court clearly state could not continue . this Government take the view that it would be wrong to put more public money into the case , when the two applicant themselves accept the judgment of the Supreme Court . if the opposition be say that they would have continue to pour public money into such a case , I would be very surprised — or perhaps disappoint , but not surprised . conservative Members be speak up now , but I be present at the United Nations General Assembly when they risk investor confidence in the UK . the then Prime Minister row back on net zero commitment , risk investor confidence in the UK and risk our global reputation on climate leadership . this government be put we back on the world stage when it come to climate leadership , and we have a goal : to deliver clean power by 2030 . do the Minister agree that the UK ' s key growth sector of the future include renewable energy , and that there will be job for the future in renewable energy and our own great british Energy ? my hon . friend ' s point about investor confidence be important . investor lose all confidence in this country under the previous government ; not quite know who be go to be in no . 10 or no . 11 at any give moment certainly do not help investor confidence . we be build back that confidence , and have already see ten of billion of pound in investment since we come to power , and 70 , 000 new job . it matter that this country take a leadership role on climate , because the transition that we want to deliver here be also be deliver right across the world . the country with the fast transition to clean power last year be China . in some case , member of this Parliament be try to row back on our net zero commitment . we be determined to double down on those commitment , because that be the good way to deliver stability and energy security , bring down bill and create the industrial future and job that this country need . hardly a day pass in this place when minister do not tell we how break the country be , yet here we have a Minister who can not give a commitment to extract the liquid gold that lie under this country , although it could generate job and tax revenue , give we energy security and reduce the import bill . be it not a fact that the court judgment have drive a hole through the growth strategy , because due to the legal target for co2 reduction that we have set , every major infrastructure project in this country will be legally challengeable , and could be turn down on the basis that it generate CO2 ? the reason we be in this situation be that the Court rule that the previous Government make an unlawful decision by not take into account the judgment of the Supreme Court . that be not I say that from a policy perspective ; it be the Court say that , and we be now move as quickly as possible to put in place a process that give confidence to industry and allow application to come forward . we have say that oil and gas will continue to play an important role for many year to come . we will not revoke exist licence , and therefore it be open for application for project to come forward , which will be consider on their individual merit . however , the right hon . Gentleman and I will always disagree on the fundamental point that tackle climate change be in all our interest . right around the world , we see the impact of not tackle climate change . it be a clear and present danger to our country and our national security , and we will tackle it . another day , another Labour Minister clean up the mess of the Conservatives who come before they . the only reason why we be have this discussion today , and why there be any lack of clarity for worker in the north - east , be that the Conservatives mess up in government . however , do the Minister agree that support project such as Rosebank and Jackdaw be entirely compatible with our drive towards a net zero economy ? we will continue to need domestic oil and gas to 2050 and likely beyond , and therefore we should maximise UK production , since we can do so with the high possible labour and environmental standard , and should secure and create job in Scotland and the rest of the UK . my hon . friend be right . we be put in place a robust and clear process , so that application can come forward that be in line with what the Supreme Court rule , and can be decide on their merit . that be important . on UK production , as I have say a number of time and will keep say , oil and gas will play an incredibly important role in the UK for many year to come . that investment be important , as be the job and the skill in the north - east . my hon . friend mention environmental standard . in my past few month in this job , I have be pleased to hear about the huge amount of work that oil and gas company have undertake to decarbonise their work through electrification and other mean . this question be about the scope 3 emission , however , that the Supreme Court rule must be take into account ; that be about the end use of the hydrocarbon as well . we will put in place a process to deal with that . last week , in excess of 400 redundancy letter be issue to worker at Grangemouth , Scotland ' s only oil refinery , so perhaps the Minister will start match his warm word about the just transition with action . on the North sea , what the industry , the investor , the workforce and our journey to net zero require be certainty . he obviously can not comment on Rosebank and Jackdaw , and so can not provide the answer that I think we all know be ultimately come , but can he give we some certainty on when he expect the Government to issue the update environmental guidance ? on the right hon . Gentleman ' s final point , we be move as quickly as possible . have build on what need to be do about the scope 3 emission , we introduce the consultation as quickly as possible . we speed up that consultation , and engage with the industry to make sure that we still get a substantial number of response . we now have those — it close two week ago , I think — and we be consider they . we will issue information about the process as quickly as possible . I can not give he an exact date , because we have to analyse the consultation response ; it would be pointless to seek consultation response and not look at they . more broadly , the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise the question of Grangemouth . it be , of course , extremely disappointing that Petroineos have decide to cease refining there . for the benefit of the House , I will say that when I arrive in the Department seven month ago , the first thing in my in - tray be Grangemouth ' s closure . of course , that do not arrive in July with the Labour Government ' s election — it have be know about for many , many year — but not a single plan have be put in place by the Conservative Government , or the SNP Government in Edinburgh . we move as quickly as possible to invest in the future , and to give funding to Project Willow to make sure that there be a viable economic future for that site . I wish that I be in power five year ago to start that work , but the Opposition and the SNP fail to do anything about Grangemouth for at least 10 year in which we know that its situation be precarious . the right hon . Gentleman will have to answer for that . I commend the Minister for the Government ' s rapid action , which he allude to early . do he agree that it be thank to our record - break investment in not one but two first - of - a - kind carbon capture project that we be get on with deliver the good job that our community deserve ? I do think that carbon capture be important . we be delighted to put forward the investment to get the track 1 project over the line , and we be look forward to see those develop . that be about give investor confidence after a protract period , under the previous Government , in which those project fall by the wayside several time . we be determined to get they over the line , and I be delighted that we do . we remain supportive of the track 2 project , particularly the Acorn cluster in Scotland , which may have an impact on area such as Grangemouth in future . we want to see investment there as well . such investment be incredibly important for build the job of the future . that be partly why the Government be determined to look at what come next , and not just to support the oil and gas industry , as important as that be at the moment . the Minister have talk long and loud about confidence in the industry , but disappear investment do not engender any confidence . the 200 , 000 people employ in the oil and gas sector in this country will look askance at GB Energy , which look less like the second prize and more like the booby prize . the point be that the oil and gas that we be take from the North sea fulfil exist demand ; it do not create new demand . it keep the light on in our home , shop , office and school right now . the whole House will have hear the hon . Gentleman repeat the point that the £ 8 . 3 billion investment in great British Energy be not welcome by the Conservative party , but it will create job — include , I be sure , in his constituency — through supply chain . we never say that all the job would be in the head office . there will be an important head office in Aberdeen , in recognition of the skill there , but the investment make will create ten of thousand of job , which be important . in the past 10 year , a third of job in this industry have already be lose . either we accept that a transition be under way , and we put in place a plan and process to build the industry of the future , or we bury our head in the sand and continue to see thousand more job go . I be determined not to do that . the highly respect Grantham Institute , chair by Lord Stern , say that a UK Government decision to proceed with Rosebank and Jackdaw would " signal to all other fossil fuel producer , include the United States and Russia , " that they support a " business as usual " approach to the oil and gas industry . do the Minister acknowledge the leadership role of the UK Government internationally , and agree that such leadership be well show by our investing in the sustainable green job that North sea community need , not by grant far unjustifiable permission ? I will not be draw on the application in this case , but I agree with my hon . friend ' s broad point about the important leadership role for the UK in build the green industry of the future , and on climate change . at COP29 , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero communicate the importance of leadership on this most pressing issue , and of see it not as a future threat , but as a present reality . the UK have an important leadership role to play and , critically , can help deliver the industrial future that we need and the clean power of the future . the Minister will be aware that fuel in Northern Ireland be exceptionally costly , and the rise of all other cost of living be lead to business find it difficult to keep their head above water , let alone turn a profit . the cost of energy be sew into every facet of business and home life . how will the Minister ensure that the vast resource that we have at our fingertip be utilise ? do he acknowledge that while renewable energy be something to work on , we need energy now ? consent must be consider quickly , and the correct decision must be make on behalf of every home and business in the United Kingdom of Great Britian and Northern Ireland . the hon . Gentleman have rightly raise those question with I on a number of occasion in different debate , and they be incredibly important . indeed , in a Westminster Hall debate , he educate I on how many off - grid household there be in Northern Ireland — it be a surprisingly high number . the issue of where our oil and gas come from be also relevant , because they be trade on an international market , and the price that his constituent and other pay be base on what the fossil fuel market do across the world . give all the geopolitical uncertainty , we want to get away from fossil fuel as fast as possible and on to renewable , and the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent will benefit from that as well . do the Minister agree that a workforce with skill hone in the North sea oil and gas sector will have an increasingly vital role in the renewable sector ? give the crucial role for GB Energy , headquarter in Aberdeen , in manage a fair and phased transition , be it not extraordinary that the Conservatives and the SNP have fail to support this proposal in this Parliament ? I agree with my hon . friend — shocking ! no way ! it be a huge shock , but I do agree with my hon . friend , because fail to back an £ 8 . 3 billion investment in your own constituency seem an odd approach for a Member to take , whatever election they be stand in . let I make a broad point about other work that we be take forward . one of the most important thing we do recently be get the skill passport over the line . that be about recognise the huge skillset of offshore oil and gas worker ; 90 % of those skill be directly transferable into renewable and other technology . passporting be about ensure that those skill and experience be recognise , so that those skilled worker can find job in the renewable industry . this important work be about the transition to the job of the future . we announce that Aberdeen will be one of the first skill pilot area , in recognition of the importance of that skill transition for the whole north - east of Scotland . the final question be from Tom Hayes . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and as this be the final question , may I commend the Minister on take a measured and pragmatic approach at the Dispatch Box ? that be in sharp contrast with the conservative party , which seem to be continue its journey from zombie Government to shambolic irrelevance . when I talk to investor and business in the energy sector , they stress the importance of a plan , whether it be that of the National Energy System Operator , or of mission control , lead by Chris Stark . will the Minister outline the importance of great British Energy in the plan transition to the job of the future ? in term of the tone of the debate , the Government and the Opposition will of course disagree on many thing — by the sound of it , we increasingly disagree on the importance of tackle climate change and net zero — but generally we all want to see a transition in the North sea that be fair and prosperous , particularly for the worker in that industry , to ensure that they have confidence that they will have well - pay job to go into . I spend every day in this job take that incredibly seriously , and whatever disagreement we might have across the Dispatch Box , I hope that be understand . we want to build a transition that recognise that it be already under way , that thousand of job have be lose and that it be our duty and responsibility as a government to ensure that we put in place the industry and job that come next . that be what I will spend every day do while I be privileged to have this job . Biomass Generation with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement about support for biomass electricity generation . my apology to the House for it have to put up with even more of I . in January 2024 the previous Government launch a consultation on support large - scale biomass generator when existing support end in 2027 . that consultation outline their proposal to continue to support biomass as a " valuable . . . form of dispatchable power " . since this government come to office , we have carefully consider response to that consultation and assess the case for a new support mechanism . biomass currently play an important role in our energy system , but we be conscious of concern about sustainability and the level of subsidy that biomass plant have receive in the past . with that in mind , I want to report to the House on our conclusion about the role of Drax power station in Yorkshire in the year 2027 to 2031 . in come to the view I will express today , we have take advice from the National Energy System Operator on question of security of supply , analyse the effect on consumer of support for biomass versus the alternative , look at issue around subsidy and sustainability in the exist arrangement , and consider long term issue around decarbonisation . first , on security of supply , we inherit a situation from the previous Government where there be no long - term planning for our energy system and its resilience . in the system we have inherit , large - scale biomass provide around 5 % of our annual electricity generation , serve a specific role as a source of firm power . to meet our need between 2027 and 2031 , we could seek to replace Drax with new gas - fire power station , but in the timescale we have there would be significant risk to rely on that approach . in that context , NESO have advise we that Drax play an important role in deliver security of supply between 2027 and 2031 . secondly , on price , we have undertake comprehensive analysis of the cost of biomass against alternative . our central projection show that , on the right term and in a much more limited role than today , biomass generation at Drax be the low cost option , include when compare with gas - fire power station , for bill payer during this period . thirdly , we have look at previous arrangement for subsidy and sustainability . this government ' s view be that they simply do not deliver a good enough deal for bill payer and enable Drax to make unacceptably large profit . at the same time , they demand level of sustainability that be not now in line with the late scientific evidence or global good practice , include supply chain emission well above the european standard . we have conclude that if Drax be to continue to play a role in our power system , these arrangement must urgently be improve go forward . fourthly , we have look at issue with decarbonisation . our finding be that there be a potential role for bioenergy with carbon capture and storage — or power BECCS — but realistically this will take time to implement and therefore can not form the primary basis of this decision . on the basis of that assessment , and give the circumstance that we inherit , the clear evidence be that Drax be important for deliver a secure , value - for - money power system in the period 2027 - 31 . but we have also conclude that we can not allow Drax to operate in the way in which it have before , or with the level of subsidy that it receive in the past . on that basis , we have secure head of term that will form the basis of a very different agreement with Drax for support during the period 2027 to 2031 . let I set out the term of the agreement . first , it will ensure that Drax play a much more limited role in the system , provide low - carbon dispatchable power only when it be really need . Drax currently operate as a baseload plant , run around two third of the time . that mean that it provide power even when other renewable source be abundant . that must not continue . under the new arrangement , Drax will be support to operate only at a maximum load factor of just 27 % . in other word , it will operate less than half as often as it do currently . that will be guarantee by the design of the dispatchable contract for difference that we have agree . when renewable power be abundant , Drax will not generate , and consumer will benefit from cheap wind and solar instead . secondly , reflect that change , the contract will deliver much well value for consumer . it will significantly reduce the amount pay in subsidy compare with the previous support mechanism . the new deal halve the subsidy for Drax — equivalent to a saving of nearly £ 6 per household per year . furthermore , our analysis show that the deal will save consumer £ 170 million in subsidy in each year of the agreement compare with the alternative of procure gas in the capacity market . I can also inform the House that the deal limit the expect rate of return for Drax to a level below that of monopoly regulate by Ofgem , but while that be our central estimate , unlike the last government we be not prepared to take the risk of price soar in response to volatile fossil fuel market , so the agreement include a build - in windfall mechanism , with rate of 30 % and 60 % that would claw back excess profit make by Drax , guarantee a much fair deal for consumer than in the past . thirdly , we will introduce tough new measure on sustainability . we will increase the proportion of woody biomass that must come from sustainable source from 70 % to 100 % . we will significantly cut the allowable supply chain emission to a level in line with the much strict regulation currently operate in the rest of Europe , and we will exclude material source from primary forest and old - growth forest from receive support payment . there will be substantial penalty on Drax if those criterion be not meet , and we will go far to ensure great confidence that the standard will be meet . I can inform the House that we will also appoint an independent sustainability adviser to work with my Department , the Low Carbon Contracts Company and Ofgem to ensure that our monitoring and enforcement measure be robust and keep pace with the science . to be clear to the House , take together the measure represent a profound shift from the past on both sustainability and value for money . in that context , this be the right deal for security of supply and price in the period 2027 to 2031 , give the circumstance that we inherit from the previous Government . nevertheless , we recognise the strength of concern in this House and across the country about the use of unabated biomass . it be not a long - term solution . we be determined that the next time such decision be make , the Government be not leave in the circumstance we have be . we will do the work that be not do by the previous Administration on strong and credible low - carbon alternative , so that in four year ' time we will have proper option . to help that process , we be set up an independent review to consider how option for greenhouse gas removal , include large - scale power BECCS and direct air carbon capture and storage , can assist the UK in meet our net zero target and ensure security of supply out to 2050 . the review will take representation widely on the issue and report back in due course . the step that I have set out be about fulfil our duty to ensure security of supply and the good deal for bill payer . we have come into office , face up to the circumstance leave by the previous Government , and deliver a step change in value for money and sustainability . the Government will do whatever it take to deliver energy security , to protect bill payer now and into the future . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I also apologise , as I be sure that the House be a little feed up hear the Minister and I this afternoon . I thank the Minister for advance sight of this statement . in the past few week it have be difficult not to feel at least a little sorry for Ministers in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . first , their Secretary of State be force out of hide to defend a third runway at Heathrow — something that he once say that we could not do because it would make we look " completely ridiculous " . Cornwall Insight have state that Ministers will miss their clean power target by a country mile , and I think it be clear during the urgent question that they be get ready to be overrule by the Prime Minister on approval of the Rosebank and Jackdaw oil and gas field — something that we on the Opposition Benches would welcome . now the Secretary of State have send the hon . Gentleman to the House this afternoon to defend the farce of chop down tree in forest in Canada , convert they into pellet , ship they across the Atlantic on diesel - chug ship and burn they in a power station in North Yorkshire , all in the name of net zero . the conservative party be under new management , and that mean confront hard truth , so let we get one thing straight from the outset : Drax ' s biomass plant be neither clean , nor cheap . as my right hon . friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) have say , burn wood from the other side of the Atlantic — release more carbon dioxide in the process — and label it renewable be a product of a carbon budget system that force politician to make perverse decision . those decision result in an extortionate level of subsidy , deliver a bad deal for british taxpayer and bill payer , and make the climate bad . we have start a reset on net zero , and we will not shy away from argue for a more pragmatic approach that prioritise cheap , stable and reliable energy . turn to the detail of the statement , naturally we welcome a more limited role for Drax biomass in our power system , but more biomass subsidy be need only in the short term , because this government be embark on a reckless experiment to have a grid base entirely on intermittent renewable at the expense of flexible and reliable baseload power . Drax ' s role could be fill with more gas power plant , which be cheap and clean than burn tree ship in from Canada . minister know that burn wood at Drax produce four time the emission of our last coal power plant , which in turn produce around twice the carbon emission of gas . we could get that gas from the non - subsidise field in the North sea , if this Government be not in such an ideological rush to shut down our domestic energy industry . on cost , the new agreement that the Minister have sign we up to come with a genuinely eyewatere strike price of £ 160 per MWh in today ' s money . that be high than Drax ' s exist agreement of £ 138 per MWh . in fact , Baringa ' s analysis that Drax put out this morning show that bill payer will still be pay over £ 450 million a year in subsidy to burn tree . if the analysis behind the Minister ' s promise to cut bill by £ 300 be anything to go by , we should not rely on he too much . have his Department carry out its own independent analysis , separate from that publish by Drax this morning , to determine what the increase strike price will cost the british people and how that compare to support extra gas power in the capacity market ? we welcome the strengthen sustainability criterion , as investigation by Ofgem and the BBC ' s " Panorama " have reveal serious question to be answer by Drax about the import of wood from untouched primary forest in British Columbia . but as the BBC journalist Joe Crowley , who report on these issue for " Panorama " , state this morning , more clarity be need on whether wood from primary forest will be class as unsustainable under this new regime . will the Minister confirm that Drax will not be allow to burn wood from primary forest during any of its generation — not just that which be subsidise ? what work be be do to ensure that the new sustainability criterion be actually enforceable ? on sustainability reporting , will the Minister confirm that the Department have receive the KPMG report that the Prime Minister say he would look at ? will a copy be place in the Library ? the Minister ' s statement have leave the door wide open for the introduction of power BECCS after the transition arrangement end in 2031 . that proposal to fit first - of - a - kind technology solely for the purpose of meet our carbon budget would cost the bill payer up to £ 40 billion — £ 1 . 7 billion a year . that be unacceptable . will the Minister confirm whether his Department have produce any analysis of what a system without BECCS would cost ? will he rule out keep this racket go indefinitely , with people ' s energy bill rise to pay for BECCS ? will the Government set a date for the burning of the last tree in a british biomass power station ? this Government have be promise we clean , cheap , home - grow energy , but burn tree at Drax be not clean or cheap , and the tree be certainly not home - grow . if the widespread burning of forest be part of the solution to climate change , we have to ask ourselves if that be the problem we be try to solve . " under new management , " indeed ! the tough thing about be the act shadow Secretary of State be that it be not , of course , his script that the hon . Gentleman be read out . this government be fix the mistake leave by the previous Government . I gently point out that eight previous Conservative Energy Ministers stand at this Dispatch Box and — deal after deal after deal — announce a bad deal than this for bill payer , energy security and sustainability . the hon . Gentleman seem to have forget that today . in fact , only a year ago — such be my love of his contribution in this House that I have read up on Hansard — he be say that he have " absolute confidence " in the deal the previous Government make with Drax . let I outline why this deal be so different from those his party make in the past . the hon . Gentleman first ask about subsidy and mention a figure , which be what it will cost to deliver the necessary dispatchable power . he miss the fact that it be , of course , half of what be pay under the previous Government — nearly £ 1 billion a year — to Drax . we have halve that amount to low bill for consumer . secondly , the hon . Gentleman speak about sustainability . we agree on the importance of tighten up the sustainability , which be why we have move from 70 % to 100 % . I would gently say , again , that he be quite happy to support public money go into unsustainable biomass year after year when he be in the Energy Department . we have say that we will not pay a penny of subsidy to Drax if there be unsustainable biomass in the mix . thirdly , what the previous Government do not do , of course , be any sort of deal to control the runaway excess profit — record profit — that Drax be able to obtain as part of its deal . we have put in place a mechanism to claw back that excess profit so that the people of this country do not pay over the odd for their energy . fourthly , I will address the important point about energy security . year after year , the Conservatives expose we to the lack of a plan for what the energy system would look like in the late 2020 and into the 2030 . this Government have have to take tough decision quickly to secure that supply for the future , and that be what we have do . we have decide that run Drax when it be not necessary — when there be clean , cheap alternative in the system — will no long happen . to the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point on Drax run less , I say that limited generation time mean that it will run only when we need it for capacity to meet demand in the system . the alternative — he ask for the figure , which I set out in the statement — would be £ 170 million more every single year . finally , on the future of BECCS , we be open - minded at this point on the role it will play . however , I agree that it be important that we come to a decision on that soon . the review we have outline be about bring together all the various bit of science that we know be there in different report and try to work out a credible pathway for whether power BECCS will play a role in the system . we will make that decision as soon as possible . I will finish by say that this be an extremely different deal . it will deliver benefit for the hard - work people of this country , ensure that sustainability be at its heart and protect our energy security in the year ahead . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . I congratulate my hon . friend the Minister on his marathon stint and on the pragmatic and well - craft analysis of how the Government ' s energy policy will address the security of supply and provide the good deal for bill payer . this be in stark contrast to what the Conservatives do , and in particular to what my hon . friend describe as the terrible deal with Drax that they preside over while in office . today ' s statement be a timely reminder of the challenge with Drax , not least give the news over the weekend of far misreporte of the burning of primary forest . NESO , in its future energy pathway , predict a reduction in the use of biomass as part of the UK become more energy independent . do the Minister , with his announcement , foresee that the cut in subsidy and in the reliance on Drax will contribute to the Government ' s clean power plan , to energy security and to reduce bill for all our constituent ? the Chair of the Select Committee be absolutely right about where Drax , and biomass generally , fit in our wide energy system . what we want to build at pace be a clean power system that take we off the volatile fossil fuel market . that be important , but there be short - term issue around ensure we have the dispatchable power we need when we need it . the Government have take long - term decision , for example in the first funding scheme for long - duration energy storage in 40 year . we hope to see modern new technology of long - duration energy storage but also some classic from the history book , with pump storage hydro play a critical role in the system and deliver the dispatchable clean power we need . but there be a short - term question we need to answer that the previous Government do not have an answer for : how we get to 2031 . we can build new gas unit . our analysis and the advice from NESO be that that be more likely to deliver energy security and in the end be cheap for bill payer , who ultimately pay the bill . our long - term ambition be to build towards that clean power system . this be an important step to get we the energy security that we need in the system . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for share his statement with we in advance . climate change and nature loss be undoubtedly the great twin threat we face . while pursue the clean power by 2030 goal , the Government need to reconsider their decision to indeterminately extend the burning of biomass as part of the energy mix , despite overwhelming evidence that it be neither sustainable nor truly renewable , especially with the threat to virgin forest . the Minister say biomass be vital for energy security , supply 5 % of the UK ' s electricity . however , he fail to mention that biomass emit 18 % more carbon dioxide than coal and that it take nearly a century for new tree to absorb those emission . that be not energy security ; it be a carbon tick time bomb . we be tell by the Minister that NESO advise that Drax be a necessity between 2027 and 2031 to prevent supply risk . that be due to the reckless rowing back by the former Government , the absence of accelerated investment in renewable and the continued investment in Drax as part of their strategy , but what kind of future be we build if it depend on burn forest rather than invest in real renewable energy source ? on cost , the Minister tell we that biomass at Drax be cheap than gas - fire power , but we must not forget that past subsidy by the former Government allow Drax to profit excessively at the expense of bill payer . even today , despite halve subsidy , Drax ' s share have surge , suggest that even this deal remain a good deal for Drax and potentially a bad one for taxpayer . we therefore call on the Government to release the 2022 KPMG report into Drax ' s subsidy claim , which should have be release under the Conservative Government . transparency be crucial and the public deserve to know if their money have be misuse . I will end by ask : be we look for home - grow clean energy — I call the Minister . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . her tone mean that I will resist the urge to say that , although I make fun of the shadow Minister for the eight announcement , it be of course the current liberal Democrat leader who agree the first support deal for Drax . but we will move past that on to her important question about security of supply . the place we want to get to by the end of this period be one where we be not force into make a decision like this again . it be really important to say that . we have a strong deal that protect bill payer , improve sustainability and deliver energy security , but we want to have option . the truth , as the hon . Lady rightly point out , be that we come into government without those option because of the decision make by the conservative party . that be a really important point . as for the point about excess profit , there be previously no mechanism to claw they back . we make that a key part of the negotiation and we manage to get it into the deal . even if our estimate be wrong — and the estimate , of course , mean that the profit will be below the level expect of the regulated company by Ofgem — we can claw back the additional profit from Drax . that be important to the system . both the hon . Lady and the shadow Minister raise the question of KPMG ' s report . I know that my Department have see they and engage with they , and I know that Ofgem be still engage in the audit process . I will take those question away and see what can be do about share those report . we have a new line from the official Opposition . we be tell that they be a firm under new management , but this sound to I like the same circus , just with different clown . the Minister be right to say that the new deal that the Government be put in place be a far well deal for taxpayer , because the previous deal be an absolute disgrace for taxpayer , but can he tell we a little more about the projection that he have see ? do they confirm that this deal be the good for taxpayer , even in comparison with gas ? how can he be certain of that ? we hear a different suggestion from the shadow Minister . my hon . friend make an important point . I think we should consider two aspect of the analysis of the importance of Drax to the system . first , in comparison with the counterfactual of build new gas - fire power station , our analysis be that the deal we have agree , which involve the use of gas on the system for 27 % of the time , cost £ 170 million less . secondly , on energy security , the assessment be that even if we want to go down that route , there would be risk about whether we could build that capacity in the time that we have . this be all about the decision take by the last Government , who do not look far enough ahead and do not have that capacity on the system . even if we do want to proceed with new gas station , there would be question about whether we could build they in time . this deal be about protect bill payer , halve the subsidy from £ 1 billion and ensure that there be dispatchable power when we need it as we build the clean power system . as we move towards the 2030 , what come next be long - term planning for a clean power mix , but also about the long - duration and short - duration storage mix that will help we to make decision that be different from the one we be force to make this time . I suppose we shall be tell that half a loaf be well than none , but this strike I as a half - bake half - loaf , to say the least . the Minister have spend an hour this afternoon lecture the House about why it be well to import oil and gas from overseas than to extend the production of at least some home - grow material . the bottom line be that , clearly , the Minister have not read the KPMG report , the Prime Minister have not read the KPMG report , and we be still go to pay billion of pound in subsidy to import pellet create in Canada and then ship across the Atlantic at God know what carbon cost . where , please , be the sense in that ? first , let I say that I have spend the last hour answer question from member on both side of the House . I have not lecture anyone . I have , however , state the fact — for instance , that if oil and gas be extract from the North sea , they be sell on the open market for whatever price the international market have at any give moment . that deliver neither energy security nor confidence to bill payer . while Opposition Members may want we to go back to the fossil fuel casino and hope we can play a well hand this time round , I think we should be build a secure power system that deliver both energy security and confidence that we will not be expose to the price spike we have be expose to in the past . if the right hon . Gentleman want to take that as a lecture , he can take it as such . on the role that Drax will play , of course we look at all the assessment around Drax to date . frankly , we have put in such a robust process on sustainability , and independent assessment of some of that , because of the question that the right hon . Gentleman raise : we know that there have be question in the past , and we want to make sure that there be tough penalty if Drax do not comply . raise sustainability from the level under the previous government — 70 % — to 100 % mean that we will not pay a penny of subsidy if Drax fail the sustainability test that we have set out for it . that protect consumer right across this country and deliver the dispatchable power that we need . I thank the Minister for his statement . I have meet woman from the southern United States and British Columbia who live next door to primary forest that have be cut down by Drax so that wood pellet can be burn in Yorkshire . as we know from the BBC ' s " Panorama " and Ofgem , Drax have utilise primary and old - growth forest . Drax can not be trust to ensure that the sustainability requirement that the Minister have put forward will be meet . what power and audit trail will the new independent sustainability adviser utilise to ensure that Drax be burn 100 % sustainable wood and not ruin the life of people in North America by use primary forest ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . the sustainability criterion be important , but he be right that make sure they be meet be important too . this be a contract for difference agreement and we will work with Ofgem to work out exactly what its role be as the regulator , but to go above what have be in place before , we have announce that an independent adviser will work with my Department , the Low Carbon Contracts Company and Ofgem to make sure that the late science and the late awareness on different element of biomass be key in our decision making , and that there be a real audit trail in place . the other really important thing be that there be now no room whatsoever for Drax not to comply with the sustainability criterion . its compliance must be 100 % , and there will not be a penny of subsidy for anything that be not sustainable . that be important , and the audit trail will be part of that work . will the Minister agree to publish the full , comprehensive analysis of the cost of provide support to Drax versus the alternative ? transparency be important , so I be very happy to publish what we can . element of that analysis , such as detail of how Drax run its power station , will be commercially sensitive , so I will have to look at exactly what can be publish . I know that NESO have today publish a summary of its advice , to give clarity on its view on the security of supply question . I be happy to take the hon . Gentleman ' s point away and write to he . Drax have exploit UK taxpayer for far too long . it have lie about meet sustainability rule , burn 1 million tonne of wood from primary forest , gag whistleblower with non - disclosure agreement , and pretend that it could sequester carbon from replant forest in time to meet our 2050 target . today , the Government have bring that a stop . they have debunk Drax ' s lie , cut its subsidy , and set a clear and sensible exit strategy that will maintain security of supply . after 15 year of campaigning , I welcome this breakthrough for honesty and common sense . will the Minister now look at the role of Ofgem in all of this ? just this weekend , when it be inform of the other break in proper reporting of sustainability , it reply , " that be the same issue as we ' ve deal with before . " what would he say if a policeman say that about a serial murderer ? on the start of my hon . friend ' s question , I agree . this Government be deeply concerned about sustainability practice at Drax and , frankly , about the level of subsidy that be part of the deal negotiate by the previous Government . we inherit a dire situation in term of long - term planning for our energy security . what we have seek to do with this deal be answer all those question — on sustainability , on security of supply , on excess profit and on the role of Drax in the system for dispatchable power , which be important . on the role of Ofgem , I know that the audit of some of Drax ' s practice be still under way . I be rightly not privy to the detail of that , because it be Ofgem ' s review , but we have a wide review of the role and remit of Ofgem under way at the moment , and I think that would be an opportunity for my hon . friend to feed in his thought on the future of Ofgem . Biomass burning have always be a stick plaster , and it have allow successive government to claim green progress while continue to emit immense amount of CO2 . the public be promise £ 20 billion a year of green investment , but instead we be get less than 6 % of what be need . when will the UK Government commit to significant direct investment in long - term energy storage such as pump hydro storage and green hydrogen production , so that the UK can move past burning forest for its energy ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s point , and I reiterate that we wish we be not in the position we be in when we come into government , whereby this be the only option that would deliver security of supply out to the early 2030 . we have seek to get the good possible deal for sustainability and for bill payer , but I agree that we need to be build what come next . last year we announce that , for the first time in 40 year , the Government would be fund long - duration energy storage , and I have hold a number of meeting with developer on pump hydro and also on new , modern form of long - duration energy storage . there be some really interesting , innovative idea out there . Ofgem be currently put in place the technical specification for the cap and floor scheme , and we want to get that rolling as soon as possible . from all my meeting with developer in Scotland , I know that there be huge potential around pump hydro in particular . they be wait for certainty from the Government in order to move forward , and we be determined to give they that . report show that Drax have behave appallingly , and under the last government it seemingly have pretty free rein . I welcome the fact that this settlement include a drastic reduction in subsidy , an upping of sustainability in supply chain to 100 % , and a windfall tax principle that will deliver value for the british bill payer . I also welcome the further consultation the Minister have outline , but this raise the question : why be the last government unable to get anywhere near to this deal ? I be tempt to say that we will have to ask the conservative that question , but they be under new management , so they do not know why the previous Government that they be all Ministers in make the decision that they do . the truth be that for far too long — under , I think , eight different Conservative Energy Ministers — they sign off deal after deal with Drax with uncapped profit and nowhere near the sustainability criterion that they should have have , let Drax do whatever it want with that power station . we have put a stop to that . let we be really clear : we have halve the subsidy , take £ 6 off every single bill in this country every single year , we have increase sustainability to 100 % , and we be deliver the energy security this country need , but we should not have be in the position on come into office where there be nowhere near enough long - term plan for the future of our energy system . I think I detect one item of agreement between the Minister and his shadow , which be that there need to be a long - term solution and this be not a short - term fix . surprisingly , there seem to be little support from the Government Benches for Drax , which play a major part in the regional economy . in my own constituency , Associated British Ports invest £ 150 million in the facility to import the biomass , and a significant number of my constituent will be involve in the supply chain . can the Minister give an assurance that he will bear in mind the impact on the local economy as we move forward to a long - term solution ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point , although I would gently point out that the shadow Minister and I agree on a lot more than he like to pretend — or I like to pretend , perhaps . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that we be aware of the importance of the job at this particular power station and in the supply chain , and we will be work with Drax on what that look like . we be of course change the role that Drax will use the power station in Selby for , and I will ensure that I have those conversation about the supply chain . I would be happy to speak to he more about that in due course . the Minister should be commend for end the terrible deal negotiate by the previous Conservative Government , which lead to high bill , excess profit and poor sustainability standard , but it be worth say again that there seem to be no end to the Conservatives ' rank hypocrisy on energy policy . in government , the then Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , sign off planning consent for the Drax carbon capture project , say that " the public benefit … outweigh the harm . " the shadow Minister , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , have now come to the Dispatch Box to decry the cost , while the right hon . member for East Surrey also oppose Drax . have the Minister consider capture the burn hypocrisy of Conservative Members , because it seem to be a truly inexhaustible resource ? my hon . friend make the point for I . he forget , of course , that the Conservatives be under new management , so it be all fine — we just forget everything that happen in the last 14 year and move on . of course , we have have to pick up the piece from the last 14 year , and while the Conservatives will not take responsibility for those decision , we have grasp the challenge and be move forward as quickly as possible . the truth be that not only do we inherit an energy system without the long - term planning it should have , but Drax do not have a deal that be good for the climate , good for energy security or good for the hard - work people of this country , who pay year after year for the subsidy that the previous Government negotiate . we have halve the subsidy every year , put money back into people ' s pocket and , of course , make sure that any excess profit come back to the Exchequer . the net zero madness come from this place be truly staggering . bear in mind that this power station use to burn coal from a coalmine less than 20 mile away , we be now transport wood from 3 , 000 mile away . we be pay over £ 10 billion in subsidy for this power station , and it be produce four time more co2 than a coal - fire power station . can the Minister explain how this be contribute to net zero ? I be not aware that it be the Reform party ' s policy to reopen the coalmine — yes , it be . that be good to know . I be proud that , as a country , we have move past coal - fire power generation , which be incredibly destructive for our environment . we close the last coal power station , at Ratcliffe - on - Soar , last year . its workforce proudly recognise the role they play in power the country for many year , while also recognise that the drive to net zero be important . while we be build a clean power system that deliver energy security for the future , the Reform party would take we back to the stone age . I thank the Minister for his statement and the strict new sustainability rule impose on Drax , which will mean that we do not pay a penny for unsustainably sourced biomass . can he give the House a bit more detail on the role of the independent adviser ? their work to hold Drax to account will be critical to ensure that this deal progress . the point of have an independent adviser be that , while the role of the Low Carbon Contracts Company as the counterparty to the contract for difference we have agree and the role of Ofgem as a regulator be incredibly important , we think there be also a role for someone independent to make sure they be analyse the particular question about biomass and sustainability , while also have an eye on the science as it move forward . part of the challenge be that , over the year , the sustainability information we have , and the type of forestry and where the biomass come from , have change . the adviser will play an important role in advise my Department , Ofgem and the Low Carbon Contracts Company on this deal in the year ahead . it be important to say that we want to make sure we also have an independent review of what the future look like , so that in five year ' time we be not look at the same decision as we be now . I welcome the Minister ' s emphasis on energy security . can he give we some idea of the timetable for when the first small modular nuclear reactor — preferably one build by Rolls - Royce , which have expertise in this area thank to its excellent work for the Royal Navy — will be commission ? the right hon . Gentleman will not draw I into the ongoing competition on small modular reactor , but he have make the case for his preferred company . last week , the Prime Minister announce that we have a new commitment to review the 2011 planning statement so that we can have much more new nuclear across the UK . that be particularly important because previously there be only eight designate site . small modular reactor , of course , open up possibility right across the country , and we want to see much more of that . we be move as fast as possible to make sure these reactor be under way , and I hope that we can move at such a speed that the Scottish Government will change their objection to have small modular reactor in Scotland . the news of a windfall tax on Drax be welcome by people across my constituency . will the Minister assure I that this will be the end of grotesque profit go to Drax at the expense of the taxpayer ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . we have significantly reduce the ability of Drax to make profit , but we have also ensure that if there be excess profit , they be claw back on behalf of the british people . the additional rate of 30 % and 60 % in the mechanism that we have design will ensure that any unexpected profit be claw back . that be not the case under the eight previous Energy Ministers in the previous Government who sign off deal on Drax year after year . this be a new way of operate that protect our energy security , as well as protect the hard - work people of this country . Drax be a clean energy scam that have be hand £ 6 billion by successive Conservative Ministers since 2012 , when that money should have be spend on get energy bill down . the Minister rightly cite past excess profit and I believe he say specifically that the new contract will allow Government to claw they back . will the contract allow clawback of previous excess profit and remedy the past misspending of public money ? or will the clawback apply only as we go forward into the future , in which case that be still throw good money after bad , just slightly less of it ? we do not have a mechanism to claw back past profit from any company — that be not something that government be able to do . what we can do be move forward with a fair system that reduce the subsidy considerably , and have excess profit mechanism and a windfall tax in place to ensure that if the company generate additional profit , we can claw that back for the british public , which be important . the level that we have agree in the deal bring the subsidy down to a considerably low level — half what it be under the previous Government . I welcome the revision of Drax ' s role in our energy system , reduce biomass and ensure that where it be use it displace gas , not excess wind and solar . however , we also need to find new low - carbon form of dispatchable power , back up by long - term energy storage at scale . Hydrogen be a strong candidate for that . by move fast , the UK can reduce cost and regain our early - mover advantage . will the Minister work with industry at pace to ensure the opportunity around hydrogen be know , explore and exploit ? my hon . friend be right that one of the really important outcome of the new deal be that instead of cheap wind and solar power be displace by Drax when it operate with baseload capacity , Drax will only operate when we need it on the system . that mean that the cheap , clean power source that we be build in abundance , of which we want to see much more in the year ahead , can generate and deliver cheap power for the people of this country . on my hon . friend ' s wide point , it be important that we explore the role that hydrogen can play in the system . we be look at a number of different technology at the moment . just last week , I meet some investor look at the future of the gas system to take forward some of those question , and I be happy to discuss that far with my hon . friend in the future . the Minister say that he be look for " strong and credible low carbon alternative " to burn biomass in order to generate electricity . will he ensure that those alternative do not include so - call energy from waste plant , since burn waste be as dirty as coal ? and will he follow Scotland and Wales in place a moratorium on the construction of new waste incinerator ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that we want " credible low carbon alternative " . I will look at the specific point he mention , but we do not see such generator as key to the review we want to undertake . we want to look at carbon capture and other technology and , crucially , how we store some of the renewable energy that we be generate in abundance that we can not use at time of peak demand , include long - duration energy storage and , increasingly , short - duration energy storage battery that be power more than they have do in the past . I will look at the specific point the right hon . Gentleman raise . the last Government ' s deal with Drax be not just shocking value for taxpayer , leave we all on the hook for subsidise sky - high profit during a cost of living crisis , but bad news for the environment , with real concern about the sustainability of Drax ' s supply chain . as the government rightly take a measured approach to ensure that we protect not just bill payer but worker as we seize the benefit of the green transition , what assurance can the Minister give my constituent that this will be a far well deal for our country ? my hon . friend be right that this be a good deal , in the short term , to ensure security of supply into the early - 2030 , which be key to NESO ' s advice on the basis of security of supply . in the process , however , we have seek to halve the subsidy that Drax be give by the previous Government and deliver on the sustainability criterion , take that from 70 % to 100 % . this be a good deal for the people of this country . my hon . Friend also touch on the important work we need to do in the broad energy space to deliver energy security . that be why clean power 2030 — our sprint to deliver decarbonised power — be so important , deliver good job in supply chain across the country . this statement should be a warning to all those across the House who be cheerleader for renewable energy . let we not forget that , in 2010 , Drax power station be the poster boy for green energy policy . of course , it turn out that instead of green energy , it have produce more co2 . we have chop down natural habitat 3 , 000 mile away to bring it and burn it in a power station in England , and consumer pay the grand total of £ 1 , 000 million a year for the pleasure of do so . the Government have not learn from that lesson . only this year , we have have a similar mistake make with wind energy , where the Government have give a subsidy six time what the price of gas would be . will we find a Minister in 15 year ' time stand again at the Dispatch Box to apologise for a waste of public money , high electricity price and environmental disaster ? after an urgent question and a statement , I hope that I will not still be stand here in 15 year ' time , and I suspect the House will support that . let I be really clear . I do not remember Drax be the poster child for the clean energy transition . I have outline clearly why this decision be important in term of energy security , but we wish that we as a Government have have more option . unfortunately , those option be not there , so we have make the good of a difficult situation to get an incredibly good deal that deliver value for money , improve sustainability and deliver on energy security . in the 2030 , I want to see our clean power system deliver cheap bill and industrial manufacturing job across the country . I hope that , in 15 year , the right hon . Member and I will have a conversation about how that be deliver for our constituent . the shadow Secretary of State talk about be under new management , and I suspect that he will be say the same thing in a few month after the inevitable bloody coup . I commend the statement , which will do some really important thing , include : cap Drax ' s output ; a windfall tax on Drax ; million save by halve subsidy pay for by my constituent ; and the force up of sustainability . it be a pragmatic solution to a disastrous inheritance . do the Minister agree that this will be a well deal for taxpayer and consumer for our energy security and our environment ? my hon . friend summarise the importance of the deal clearly . we have limit the expect rate of return for Drax to a level below that of monopoly regulate by Ofgem . we have halve the subsidy provide to Drax that be in every single deal from the conservative party , year after year , save £ 170 million each year of the agreement . we have introduce a windfall tax with 30 % and 60 % rate to be claw back should Drax have excess profit . we be deliver on energy security and on tough sustainability requirement , but at the heart of the deal be well value for money for the hard - work people of this country . Drax have be a greenwashe con that have rip off the british public for far too long , so I welcome the statement . the Minister and the Energy Secretary have do more than eight previous Tory Energy Ministers , and indeed one Lib Dem Secretary of State . I welcome the move to slash the subsidy for Drax and to enforce 100 % sustainability target on its supply chain . but when the Minister talk about a windfall mechanism , may I gently urge he to call a spade a spade ? this be a windfall tax on Drax and we should be proud of say so . at the risk of get into trouble with those responsible for tax matter , I simply say that this be a windfall mechanism that do exactly the same thing , and it do exactly what the Conservatives fail to do in 14 year , which be to ensure that there be a good deal and good value for money for the british public , deliver on energy security and , crucially , get we to a point where our clean power plan for 2030 deliver energy security , climate leadership and job right across the country . it be the ambition of do something different in this country and do it fast , and we be commit to deliver it . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 28 October , in response to a question on his statement on the middle east , the Foreign Secretary state that the term of annihilation , extermination and genocide be " largely use when million of people lose their life in crisis such as Rwanda and the Holocaust of the second world war . the way that people be now use those term undermine their seriousness . " — [ Official Report , 28 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 556 . ] the following day , I write to the Foreign Secretary seek urgent clarification . the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide state clearly that the genocide mean a specific set of act " commit with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group " . it be not define by the number of people kill , but rather the act commit and the intent behind they . indeed , as recently as July 2024 , the UK Government make a statement on the 29th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide , commemorate the massacre of approximately 8 , 000 mainly muslim man and boy . I could go into some detail , but to get to the point , I have subsequently write two letter to seek clarification from the Foreign Office and the Foreign Secretary . in both account , I have have letter from the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , neither of which address either what be say in the House or , indeed , the definition of genocide . the reason I stand here to make a point of order be this : have the UK Government move away from what we have agree to since 1947 in the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide ? I seek clarification on the matter . I be grateful to the hon . member for give I notice of his point of order . the Chair be not responsible for the substance of answer give by Ministers in this House or for ministerial correspondence with hon . member . Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the purpose of the Bill be to strengthen UK border security , which have be weaken and undermine in recent year ; to restore order to the immigration and asylum system , which be leave in chaos ; and to bring in new counter - terror - style power for our law enforcement to go after the dangerous criminal gang that undermine our border security , that profit from put life at risk and that have be get away with it for far too long . it be a Bill to strengthen leadership and accountability around our border , put the Border Security Command on the statute book , and to bring in tough power to tackle organise immigration crime , include pursue those involve in supply chain , preparatory act and seize mobile phone . it be a Bill that allow we to take strong action on those who put the life of other at risk at sea , that will improve intelligence gathering and sharing , and that will restore order and control to the asylum system so that we can clear the backlog . it be a Bill to deliver on our labour manifesto commitment to bring in counter - terrorism - style power to increase enforcement and return . it be part of the programme to deliver what we set out before Christmas in the Government ' s plan for change — rebuild secure border ; restore order , control and confidence to the immigration and asylum system ; and bring legal and illegal migration down . the Home Secretary may recall that , when she be on the Opposition Benches , I caution the then Conservative Government that the action they be go to take to have a uniform immigration policy throughout the United Kingdom be unsustainable . more particularly , I warn during proceeding on the Illegal Migration Bill that it would conflict with the Windsor framework . they say I be wrong , but the High Court in Belfast have say that we be correct . she be take step today to repeal section of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 , so will she confirm , as Home Secretary of this United Kingdom , that our immigration policy will run throughout the entirety of this United Kingdom ? the right hon . Gentleman make an important point . I can assure he that our approach be for both immigration and asylum to apply right across the UK , recognise the importance of border security as part of that UK - wide approach . Most people across the UK want strong border security and a properly control and manage asylum and immigration system , so that the UK do its bit , alongside other country , to help those flee persecution , but also so that those with no right to be here be swiftly return and the rule be respect and enforce . none of that have be happen in recent year . when this Government take office , basic rule have stop be enforce , the asylum system have be crash , and smuggling gang see the UK as an easy target . the last Conservative Government completely lose control of our border . rise — I will give way to the hon . member , but I inform member that although I will take many intervention , I must make progress first . that be fair enough , and I be grateful to the Home Secretary for give way . she talk about how much the whole of the UK want this Bill , but my little part of the UK have experience population stagnation , with decline come in the 2030 . what we want and need be the tool to address that . a scottish visa , support by every sector and business organisation , would help our nation . when will we get that to help with our issue ? let I repeat the answer that I have just give : our immigration and asylum system apply right across the UK . I say to the hon . member that when net migration soar under the previous Government , it do not address the labour market issue in Scotland . that be why we need a proper strategy that address the labour market issue , rather than always see migration as the answer . the last Conservative Government completely lose control of our border . net migration quadruple in the space of three year to a record high of nearly 1 million people , as overseas recruitment soar while training be cut in the UK . immigration be important for the UK , but that be why it need to be control and manage . the party that tell people that it be take back control of our border instead just rip up all the control . six year ago , barely a handful of boat cross the channel : 300 people arrive by small boat in 2018 . within four year that number have rise to more than 30 , 000 — a 100 - fold increase — which not only undermine our border security but put huge number of life at risk . the Conservative Government fail to act fast with France and other country to increase enforcement and prevent the gang from take hold . instead , criminal be let off and an entire criminal industry be establish along our border in just a few short year , with tragic consequence . I be most grateful to the Home Secretary for give way . nobody in this House support criminal gang or people smuggler . we recognise that they be grotesque people who exploit those in very vulnerable situation . however , the people who get on those boat be desperate . many of they be victim of war and the most grotesque human right abuse , and they deserve to be treat with respect . do she agree that , by way of balance , we should work out more sustainable safe route for asylum seeker to gain a place of safety , in recognition of the massive contribution that many of they will make to our community , our country and our society ? the UK must always do its bit to help those who have flee persecution . that be what we have do with Ukraine and Afghanistan , and it will continue to be important , but no one should be make this dangerous journey on a boat across the channel and be exploit by the criminal gang that be profit from it . they be make huge amount of money — hundred of million of pound — from put life at risk and undermine our border security . it should be government , not gang , who decide who enter our country . under the last government , asylum decision making collapse , with a 70 % drop in monthly decision making in the run - up to the election and an 80 % drop in asylum interview . the entire asylum system be crash by their chaotic legislation , drive the backlog up at huge cost to the taxpayer , and enforcement be undermine , with a 34 % drop in return compare with the last Labour Government . just four employer be charge with illegally employ migrant worker in the space of two and a half year , and of course , £ 700 million be spend on send four volunteer to Rwanda — that programme run for more than two year and send just four volunteer . at the time , we say that it would have be cheap to send those same people on a round trip to Australia on the former Prime Minister ' s private helicopter . it turn out that it would have be cheap to buy each of they a fleet of private helicopter themselves , never mind spend that money on pay for thousand more doctor , nurse or police officer , or pay to boost our border security instead . we say in our manifesto that we would stop the chaos and return order to the system . that be what this Bill do , and it be exactly what we be do . since the election , we have start by ensure that rule be respect and enforce , because immigration be important , but the system should not be misuse or abuse . we have transfer staff and resource from the fail Rwanda scheme and boost return and enforcement . the result be a 24 % increase in enforce return in our first seven month for those who have no right to be in the UK . some 19 , 000 people be return by the end of last month , include the four large return charter flight in our country ' s history , and there have be a 38 % increase in illegal working raid and arrest compare with the same time period under the previous Government . new biometric kit have be roll out , so that immigration enforcement can check fingerprint and biometric residence permit on the spot , and we be already strengthen our approach to prosecute employer for exploitation and employment of illegal worker . can the Home Secretary tell the House how many of those who have be deport since she come into office have cross into the UK on a small boat ? I should perhaps point the hon . Lady to her own Government ' s record , which leave we with a shocking and disgraceful backlog in the asylum system . we be now clear that backlog so that small boat case can now be return , something that be not possible under her Government ' s approach . they never decide any asylum case , and as a result could not return anyone who arrive on a small boat because their system be so broken . not only be this government introduce strong power to prevent small boat arrive in the first place — something that , shockingly , Conservative Members seem to want to vote against this evening — we be clear the backlog so that we can substantially increase return , compare with the total failure under the previous Government . we have establish our new Border Security Command to draw together the work of the Border Force , the National Crime Agency , the police , Immigration Enforcement , the Foreign Office and the intelligence and security agency in order to strengthen our border . that be back by £ 150 million of funding for new technology and hundred of specialist investigator , and it have already lead to major joint operation with Belgium , France , Germany , Bulgaria and Iraq , take out smuggler gang leader and supply chain — the criminal operate across border , and so must we . since the election , we have sign new agreement with Germany , Iraq , Italy , the Calais group and the G7 , and we be draw up new , close arrangement with France . in parallel with our new UK Border Security Command , the french Interior Minister have announce increase enforcement along the coast and a new criminal intelligence and investigation unit to drive new action against organised immigration crime . but we need to go much far . it be worth understand how extensive and vile this criminal industry really be . it operate from the money market of Kabul to the hill of Kurdistan and right across Europe — through the western Balkans and across the Mediterranean . it use false advertising on social medium and hawala network to channel the cash . there be huge supply chain of flimsy boat , weak engine and fake lifejacket that would not keep anyone afloat . there be shipping route through Bulgaria , Italy and Spain ; warehouse of boat in Germany ; and organise logistic network through Belgium and northern France . gang have become increasingly violent in their determination to make as much money as possible . they be crowd more and more people into flimsy boat with woman and child in the middle , so that if the boat fold or sink , they be the first to drown or be crush . they provide the fuel in flimsy container that leak , so that when it mix with saltwater , it inflict the most horrific burn . the gang ' late tactic be to make people wait in freeze cold water — even in January — until a boat arrive from far along the shore to pick they up . the International Organisation for Migration estimate that at least 78 people die when attempt to cross the channel in 2024 . family have be leave devastate by the loss of love one , the victim of a diabolical trade — the most disgraceful and immoral trade in people . the Home Secretary will accept that this be a difficult time to speak up for a fair and ethical immigration policy , with the tide of far - right politic sweep Europe , and maybe even lap the shore of this country . do she accept , however , that she be in danger of sound like she be try to stigmatise desperate migrant , rather than build a fair system ? the Mother of the House have long have an interest in these issue and have often speak on they . I would say that it be important for the UK to have a fair and effective asylum and immigration system . immigration have always be an important part of the UK , but for it to be so , the rule need to be respect and enforce . we can not allow the criminal gang to put life at risk in that way or to undermine our border security . it be as a result of the operation of those criminal gang that 78 people die while attempt to cross the channel in 2024 and that we have see those quite horrific tactic . the Home Secretary be clearly describe the grotesque way in which evil people trafficker encourage people to cross the channel , but my constituent find it difficult to understand why people want to come across the channel from France , which be a lovely country where many people enjoy holiday and it be so safe . what be her understanding of why people make that journey and how will the Bill specifically help to reduce the number who do ? as the hon . Lady will know , this challenge have be escalate for six year . we have see a huge increase in the number of boat crossing , and underpin that increase be the development of a criminal industry . in 2018 there be barely a handful of boat crossing , and now an entire criminal industry have develop base on false advertising and marketing , and on be able to promise people that they will be able to work illegally . that be why the previous Government ' s complete failure to take enforcement action on illegal working or to make sure that there be a proper system in place for return have be deeply damaging . the Bill provide statutory underpinning for the new Border Security Command . for too long , different agency with responsibility for border security have be operate in silos , without clear strategy or direction . criminal can exploit that fragmentation , and the new Border Security Command that we establish last summer be draw together the work of different agency include Border Force , the National Crime Agency , local police force , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , immigration enforcement , the intelligence and security agency and , because strengthen our border mean work internationally , the work of the Foreign Office on border security . lead by former police chief Martin Hewitt , Border Security Command be already have an impact , drive law enforcement co - operation across Europe and beyond . by place it on a statutory footing and secure its authority and direction , for the first time border security be be treat as the national security issue that it need to be , engage with the multiple challenge and threat that we face around our border . the Bill strengthen the power that law enforcement can use against ruthless and devious criminal . for too long , the ringleader and facilitator of this wretched trade have be able to evade justice by ensure that they be not present when the money change hand or the boat set off . that have to change . learn from early intervention counter - terrorism power , the Bill will make possible much strong early action against smuggler and traffic gang . new power will well target supply chain , make it an offence to organise the buying , sell and transporting of small boat part , motor and engine to be use for illegal entry — not wait until we can prove that the boat in question be use to arrive at Western Jet Foil . we be make it an offence to organise the logistic or gather information for the purpose of organise immigration crime , make clear that that be target criminal gang who be profit from trade in people , not those who help rescue other from serious danger or harm . we be give law enforcement power to seize and search the mobile phone of those arrive on small boat , to trace the gang who organise their journey . as Rob Jones from the National Crime Agency say , " if you get effective legislation , and you get concert effort across the system internationally , you can make a real difference . " that be why a Bill such as this be so important . I have ask the Home Secretary this before and she have not give an answer yet : which metric should we use , and by which date , if we be to ascertain whether she have succeed in smash the gang ? we have be clear as part of the plan for change that the purpose be to reduce illegal migration and the number of boat cross the channel , because no one should be make those dangerous journey . we must take these power to be able to go after the gang — power that , astonishingly , the hon . Gentleman and his party seem to want to vote against tonight . they will be vote against the action that we need , and vote in favour of the criminal gang , let they off the hook once again . I be also deeply concerned about the grow violence and risk to life . in the past 12 month we have see a disturbing number of case where the french authority have try to rescue people , include child , from dangerously overcrowded boat on which they be be crush to death . one such case be last April when a seven - year - old girl die . even though people have die and many be complicit in the crushing and put life at risk , some refuse rescue and remain on the boat to travel to the UK . we must be able to take strong action here in the UK . we must be able to extradite people to France to face trial , but we need power in the UK too . a new offence of endanger life at sea be be introduce to send a clear message that we will take action against those who be complicit in loss of life or risk to life at sea . those involve in behaviour that put other at risk of serious injury or death , such as physical aggression , intimidation or reject rescue attempt , will face prosecution . I support the intent of this Bill to reform the asylum system and prevent further death in the channel . the Prime Minister have promise to defend migrant and to develop a system base on " compassion and dignity " , and that can be resolve by look at safe route . People would not put their life on the line and put themselves in danger if there be safe route . can the Home Secretary tell we what will be in this Bill to support safe route ? the purpose of this Bill be to pursue the criminal gang who be undermine border security and put life at risk . that be the way the criminal gang work , and that be why the Bill be so important . unless we do that , any other measure we take in any direction will be undermine and will fail . the UK must always do its bit — it have always do its bit — alongside other country to help those flee persecution . that be what we have do and continue to do for Afghanistan , for example . we also have to ensure that government , not gang , choose who enter our country and that we prevent this criminal trade in people that be put life at risk . the Bill will upgrade serious crime prevention order , which be a potentially vital tool , but be currently underuse . under new interim serious crime prevention order , the process will be streamline , so that strict curb can be place on individual suspect of involvement in organise immigration crime before they be prosecute and convict . that could mean , for example , restriction place on travel , social medium access or the subject ' s finance , so that early intervention can prevent dangerous action . the Home Secretary have outline many of the measure she be take to try to deal with the gang , but the fact be that people come here because there be advantage in come here . what be she do to ensure that those advantage be remove , so that there be no incentive for people to come to the United Kingdom ? secondly , what role will Border Force have between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic , since the Irish Republic be also a route for illegal immigrant to come to the United Kingdom ? the right hon . Member will be aware that the common travel area have long be in place , and that mean that arrangement have to be address differently . part of the problem with the whole asylum and immigration system have be that issue around enforcement have just not be take seriously enough for far too long . we have be clear that the rule need to be respect and enforce . that be why we have substantially increase the resource and staffing available for enforcement and return . it be why we have have 19 , 000 people return . it be why we have increase return . for example , we have increase enforce return by 24 % . it be why we have also increase the illegal work raid by 38 % just since the election . that be a substantial increase in the illegal work raid and arrest , because not enough action be be take on illegal working and employer exploit people . if we do not have that system of proper enforcement , people think it be just too easy to ignore the rule , to break the rule and to ignore the system , and that be what we have to turn around . there have to be some credibility underpin the asylum and immigration system and some enforcement of the rule ; frankly , there just have not be that for far too long . we will introduce two new offence to criminalise the making , adapt , import , supply and offer to supply and the possession of a specified list of article for use in serious crime . that include template for 3d - print firearm , pill press and vehicle concealment . we will introduce strong power to go after dangerous criminal — criminal who be plan to provide small boat , supply small boat , put life at risk , undermine border security and organise serious crime . I know that the Home Secretary be do she good to cover the waterfront — almost literally — but be not part of the problem that so many of the criminal gang organiser be outside our jurisdiction ? how will these new law apply to people we can not reach ? the right hon . Member make an important point , because we have to do this work in co - ordination with other country . alongside the UK ' s set up the Border Security Command , France be set up its new organise immigration crime unit and a new intelligence centre and be strengthen enforcement . alongside the UK ' s strengthen our law to be able to go after the preparatory supply chain use by the people smuggler , Germany be also commit , as part of our new agreement , to strengthen its law so that it can take action against the warehouse that we know hold huge number of the flimsy boat that be then use to transport people across the channel , put life at risk . he be absolutely right that this have to be do in co - operation and co - ordination with other country , because the good way to strengthen border security be to work in co - operation . the National Crime Agency be also clear that some of the organiser be here in the UK , such as those who do the facilitation , organise the supply chain and organise and help plan some of the route , the dropping - off point and the advertising . some of they be base in the UK , so we need the power to be able to go after they here . if we be ask France , Germany and other country to do their bit to help go after the criminal gang , we need to make sure we be do our bit , too . that be why , to be honest , I find it absolutely astonishing that the Conservatives be plan to vote against Second Reading and against the provision we be put forward . [ interruption . ] there be no point do , " yeah , but no , but yeah , but no , but " ; the impact of the reason amendment from the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) be to refuse to give a second reading to this Bill , which put forward counter - terrorism - style power to go after the criminal people smuggler and trafficker who have undermine border security and put life at risk . we have see reason amendment from Reform and the Scottish National party , too , all want to oppose this Bill and the power we need to go after the criminal gang . frankly , they should all explain why they want to let down the people of this country and stand up instead for the people smuggler and the trafficker who be put life at risk and undermine our border security . on the Government Benches , we believe we should go after those gang , because theirs be a vile and illegal trade . the Bill also strengthen intelligence gathering and intelligence sharing to tackle organise immigration crime . it will make it easy for custom datum to be share with the Home Office and police and provide for datum hold by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency on UK - register trailer to be share with law enforcement in real time . the House will remember the terrible case where 39 people die in the back of a trailer in Essex . the Bill will help detect attempt to smuggle people or good into the country illegally via lorry . it will also provide for biometric check to be take more easily in different location , include from scottish port and evacuation route . importantly , the Bill also restore order to the asylum system by put an end to some of the fail gimmick and unworkable mess that the previous Government leave we . that include sort out the chaos create by the unworkable and contradictory provision in the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , most of which be so unworkable that Conservative Ministers never commence or implement they . some 34 major clause be pass by this House but never commence , because Ministers know they would not work . sixteen more be commence , but never operationalise , because they be simply unworkable . the chaotic combination of section 9 and section 2 mean that anyone who arrive could claim asylum , get asylum support and get put up in an asylum hotel , but the Home Office could never take a decision on their case , so they would have to stay forever — an asylum Hotel California which people never leave , while the backlog soar and the taxpayer foot the bill . we be repeal many of those chaotic , gimmicky and broken law , include the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 , which will allow we to withdraw from the UK - Rwanda treaty that would otherwise have cost we hundred of million of pound more for an unworkable scheme . the Home Secretary mention asylum hotel . the Government have actually open more asylum hotel since they have be in office . can she give we a date when she will have meet her manifesto commitment to close the last asylum hotel ? I would just point out to the hon . member that his party ' s previous Government open 400 hotel . this Government have already cut the cost of asylum accommodation substantially , and we continue to do so . we have also have to start clear the backlog that be create by the previous Government collapse asylum decision in the run - up to the election , create total chaos . the Bill be about restore order to the immigration and asylum system and rebuild our border security . immigration have always be important to the UK , but that be why it should be control and manage so that the system be fair . our country will always do our bit to help those who have flee persecution and conflict , but the system need grip and control , not gimmick and false promise . unlike our predecessor , we will not claim that there be a single fantasy gimmick that will solve the serious challenge . the gang have be allow to take hold for six year , so it will take time to loosen that grip and smash the network that lie behind they , but there be no alternative to the hard graft of go after those gang network , which have be get away with this for far too long . nor be there an alternative to work with international partner on this international crime , build new alliance against organised criminal — not just stand on the shoreline shout at the sea . if all the other party be serious about tackle the criminal gang that undermine our border security and put life at risk , if they be serious about tackle crime , if they be serious about tackle criminal , and if they be serious about protect our border , they will support the Bill . the gang do not care about border , or whether the people they exploit live or die , but we have a responsibility to the british people , who rightly expect our border to be secure , to go after the criminal gang that be undermine they . we have a moral duty to prevent further tragedy , and stop the gang that undermine border security and put life at risk . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House , while welcome measure to create new immigration criminal offence , decline to give a second reading to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , because an effective removal and deterrence arrangement be fundamental to stop illegal immigration , but the Bill abolishe law pass under the previous Government to ensure removal , and abolishes law pass under the previous Government to ensure a deterrent by restore illegal migrant ' ability to claim indefinite leave to remain and british citizenship ; and because the Bill contain no proposal to limit legal migration , nor limit the eligibility criterion for settlement and citizenship , which mean that the Bill will lead to increase illegal and legal immigration . " it have be seven month since the Government come to office , so we have have a chance to look at their record . I be afraid it do not make for happy reading . since the general election on 4 July , 24 , 793 people have illegally , dangerously and unnecessarily cross the english channel . that be a 28 % increase on the same period 12 month previously . the Home Secretary tell we how good her Government ' s record be , yet illegal crossing have go up by 28 % on her watch . she promise that she would end the use of asylum hotel . my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) ask she when she would deliver on that manifesto commitment , and she do not answer the question . the truth be that , after the election , there be 6 , 000 more people in asylum hotel : a failure on her watch . the Home Secretary crow about removal number , not mention of course that three quarter of those removal be voluntary , and only a tiny fraction relate to people who arrive by small boat . in the first three month of this Government , the number of people who be remove have arrive by small boat actually go down . in fact , the removal of small boat arrival in those first three month — the most recent period for which figure be available — amount to only 4 % of small boat arrival , so how can she tell we that let 96 % of illegal immigrant stay here be some kind of deterrent ? it be not . the shadow Home Secretary seem keen to reflect on the record of government . in 2010 , the number of people in the asylum system reach an over - 20 - year low . by the time the Conservative Government have leave office , the number have balloon by 13 time to 225 , 000 . will he reflect on who be responsible for that ? I wonder whether the hon . Gentleman know which Government give an effective asylum amnesty ; it be the previous Labour Government . if he be so interested in the asylum backlog , do he know whether it have go up or down under the new Government ? it have go up , as have the number of illegal migrant cross the channel , leave a safe country — France — from which there be no necessity to depart in order to find safety . France have a fully function asylum system , do it not ? in 2018 , 400 people cross . on the Conservative Government ' s watch , 130 , 000 people cross the border . will the shadow Home Secretary apologise ? the hon . Gentleman be obviously not aware that in 2023 the number be go down . since his government come to office on 4 July last year , the number have go up by 28 % . the shadow Home Secretary note that the number of asylum claim have go up since the Government come to power , yet thousand have be wipe off because those people have be automatically give permission to stay in the United Kingdom . do he not think that one reason we will continue to see people flood in be that they know we be an easy touch ? they can just come here and get grant asylum . the right hon . Gentleman make a very good point . the asylum grant rate in this country have go up in recent month , and be high in comparison with some other european country . that be obviously a potential pull factor for people consider a dangerous and unnecessary crossing of the english channel . let I say a word about the Bill in general before discuss its specific . the Bill cancel the obligation on the Government to remove people who have arrive illegally . that be a shocking move . it create a pathway to citizenship for people who have enter the country illegally , which will only increase the pull factor , and completely cancel any prospect of establish a removal deterrent , which the National Crime Agency say be necessary . how many people be remove under the previous Government ' s so - call deterrent ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the deterrent never even start . the first flight — [ interruption . ] the first flight be due to take off on 24 July , but his government cancel the deterrent before it have even start . that be their mistake , and as a result illegal crossing have go up by 28 % . this be not a border security Bill , give the measure that I have mention ; it be a border surrender Bill . it be a weak bill from a weak government . I be in opposition when we have ferocious debate about Brexit , and Conservative Members use word like " surrender " , " traitor " and " weak " . the shadow Home Secretary be now do the same in opposition . do he honestly believe that such language be conducive to get to a solution ? do he think that it make any person in this House feel well about themselves ? do he think that it give he the moral high ground ? I think it expose his inability to conduct an argument in a way that be vaguely civil . I think a Bill that create a path to citizenship for illegal migrant and cancel the obligation on the Government to remove people who arrive illegally be a shocking piece of legislation . that be why we table a reasoned amendment . will the shadow Home Secretary give way ? I have give way a lot . let I make some progress . the Home Secretary ask about the opposition ' s position on various topic . our reason amendment make it clear that we support measure to increase criminal penalty and to legislate against article for use in serious and organised crime — measure that we introduce as part of the Criminal Justice Bill last year — but we do not support a path to citizenship for people who arrive illegally , and we do not support cancel the Government ' s obligation to remove they . that be why I move the reason amendment . perhaps the shadow Home Secretary can confirm that the measure in the Illegal Migration Act on citizenship be never commence because it be unworkable . the Government have strengthen the power to ensure that small boat arrival can not get citizenship by strengthen the rule . we have do more in seven month than the conservative party do in 14 year . if he really want to support counter - terrorism - style power , why be he go to vote against the Bill on Second Reading ? the reasoned amendment make it very clear that we support those power , but we do not support the totality of the Bill . in term of tough action , the Home Secretary have yet to explain to the House why illegal crossing have go up by 28 % on her watch . will the shadow Home Secretary give way ? I will make some progress . let I turn to the detail of the Bill . the only problem with the Border Security Commander be that he can not actually command anything . there be no power at all in the Bill , merely function . they include , in clause 3 , publish a strategic priority document and , in clause 4 , a duty to prepare an annual report . prepare a strategic priority document and publish an annual report be unlikely to smash the gang . the Border Security Commander have no clear power , merely an ability to publish document and report . will the shadow Home Secretary give way ? the hon . Gentleman have be extremely persistent , and that deserve its reward . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for the reward , and I hope to return one . the director general of the NCA have say : " the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill should help UK law enforcement act early and fast to disrupt people smuggle network and give we additional tool to target they and their business model . " the conservative party be about to vote against the Bill . why do the shadow Home Secretary think that he know well than the director general of the National Crime Agency ? the point of a debate be to engage rather than read out a pre - prepare question . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the National Crime Agency have say that we need a deterrent . the Bill remove any legislative prospect of a deterrent , which be why we oppose it . the Home Secretary talk about various new offence , include endanger life at sea and activity preparatory to support illegal migration . of course , no one from any party in this House want those thing to happen , but the measure that she propose duplicate the exist provision in section 25 of the Immigration Act 1971 , as amend by the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 . facilitate illegal immigration — quite a broad term — be already a criminal offence . unlike her offence of endanger life at sea , which carry a five - year maximum sentence , section 25 of the Immigration Act state that facilitate illegal migration carry a maximum sentence of life , recently increase from 14 year . guess who vote against that increase in the sentence ? the Home Secretary . although we support the thrust of the clause in the Bill , they be already cover by the tough exist offence of facilitate illegal immigration . clause 19 to 26 contain plan to seize phone , which in principle we support , but that power exist already in section 15 and schedule 2 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . there be an element of duplication . let I move on to the more objectionable part of the Bill . clause 37 repeal the entirety of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] that appear to command some rather unwise enthusiasm from the Government Benches . as I say , the first flight under the Rwanda scheme be due to leave on 24 July , follow extensive legal challenge and legislation in this House . very unwisely , the Government choose never to start that scheme , which would have have a deterrent effect , because it stand to reason that if people know that if they try to cross illegally into a country such as the UK they will be remove to Rwanda , they will not bother in the first place . we have see that kind of scheme work elsewhere , with Operation Sovereign Borders in Australia around 10 year ago . we have see it work here as well , with the 2023 removal agreement with Albania . crossing by Albanians , who be the most numerous cohort cross the channel , go down by 93 % . again , it stand to reason that if people know that if they arrive here they will be remove , they will not bother cross in the first place . but hon . member should not take my word for it . the National Crime Agency say that we need a deterrent , and even the Government ' s own Border Security Commander , Martin Hewitt — who can not command very much — say that we need a deterrent . that be the second time the shadow Home Secretary have say that the National Crime Agency have suggest that Rwanda would be a deterrent . the head of the National Crime Agency have say specifically , " other be imply that we support Rwanda , and that isn ' t true . " will the right hon . Gentleman withdraw that ? no , what the National Crime Agency say be that we need a deterrent . that be what it say , that be what I quote , and the Government ' s own Border Security Commander make the same point . last year , as part of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , I visit Rwanda to see the accommodation at Hope hostel that be to be provide to people who be move under the Rwanda scheme . I learn from that visit that , yes , people would have be deter from go across the channel , but that migrant who be send to Rwanda would have be well look after , well care for and able to set up a new life , free from the war and famine that they be flee . I thank my hon . friend for take the time and trouble to visit Rwanda , which almost no supporter of the Bill have ever bother do . it be clear that the Rwanda scheme would have have a deterrent effect , have the Government allow it to start . the National Crime Agency have say that , and we have see it work in Australia . the fact that this Government be remove only 4 % of people who cross by small boat — mean that 96 % be able to stay — explain why so many more people have cross the channel under this Government than under the previous regime . can the right hon . Gentleman and other Opposition Members look themselves in the mirror , with a hand on their heart , and say in good conscience that for a great nation like our — a country that believe in the international rule of law — to outsource its asylum policy to a country like Rwanda be the correct way to behave ? can he really say that that be the right policy for this country ? the right policy for this country be for the Government , not people smuggler , to decide who come into this country . unlike this government , we have a plan to deliver that . I point out to the hon . Gentleman that France be a safe country . there be no need to cross the english channel to flee war or seek asylum . France have a perfectly well - function asylum system . when it come to people who be genuinely in need , this country have a proud record . the Home Secretary refer — rather generously , I might say — to initiative undertake by the last government . they include the Ukraine scheme , which allow in 200 , 000 or 300 , 000 people ; the resettlement scheme that welcome around 25 , 000 Syrians from about 2015 to 2020 ; the provision make for british national overseas who come here from Hong Kong , and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme and afghan relocation and assistance policy . that be the record of this country , and of the previous Government , on people who be in genuine need . but people — overwhelmingly single young man — leave France , convey here by people smuggler , be not the people whose entry we should be facilitate . let I move on to the Bill ' s provision to repeal much of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . one such provision to be repeal , therefore deprive the Government of the ability ever to use it , be section 2 , which create an obligation on the Government to remove people who come here illegally . let I point out to those people who be concerned about genuine asylum seeker that section 2 ( 4 ) of the 2023 Act make it clear that the provision do not apply if someone come directly from a place of danger . that be consistent with article 33 of the 1951 refugee convention , which member will be familiar with . but people who come here directly from France — a safe country where no one be be persecute , which have a perfectly well - function asylum system — should not illegally enter the United Kingdom . the Bill will also repeal section 32 of the 2023 Act , which prevent people who enter the country illegally from gain citizenship . by repeal that section , the Bill will create a pathway to citizenship for people who enter the country illegally , and I think that be unconscionable . the Bill will also repeal section 57 and 58 of the 2023 Act — a topic on which the Minister for Border Security and Asylum and I have have some correspondence — which concern scientific age assessment method . every european country apart from this one use scientific age assessment technique , such as an x - ray of the wrist , although there be other method . that be important because quite a few people enter the country illegally who might be in their early or even mid - 20 falsely claim to be under the age of 18 , and without a scientific age assessment method it be very hard to determine their age . that create serious safeguarding issue . there have be case of man in their mid - 20 end up in school with teenage girl , which carry obvious safeguarding risk . a statutory instrument pass in early 2024 — quite soon before the election — commence the power to use those age assessment technique . I really hope the new Government will use those power and start use wrist X - ray , or other technique , to ensure that people can not falsely claim to be under 18 . I would be grateful if the Minister could provide an update on that in her wind - up speech , because we would certainly support her work in that area . as I say , there be an important safeguarding element to this matter , as well as a migration element . I note that in repeal section 57 of the 2023 Act , the Government will no long be able to treat as over 18 somebody who refuse one of those test . there be some predate provision in the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , but the provision be repeal be strong , and in the circumstance that may be rather unwise . there be various thing miss from the Bill . we will table various amendment during its passage that will seek to introduce much strong measure , but I want to point to two in particular now . the first address the fact that there be no mechanism in the Bill for a bind annual cap on legal migration . will the hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? no — I have take lot of intervention . I think we can all agree that number in recent year have be far too high , and what be need be a bind cap that Parliament can vote on , so that it can decide how many visa be issue each year . I believe the Prime Minister be ask about that and say he do not agree with it , but I think the Bill be an ideal opportunity to create that power for Parliament — for we , the directly elect representative of the people — to vote each year on how many visa get hand out . perhaps the Minister for Border Security and Asylum will execute a consider u - turn and embrace the suggestion I have just make . on the topic of legal migration , the previous Government — in fact , I think it be my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , the former Home Secretary , who be in his place — announce an increase to the threshold for dependant visa . it go up somewhat in April last year , and it be due to go up again this April to about £ 38 , 000 . I would be grateful if the Government could clarify whether they will go ahead with that plan , which would , of course , control some of the number . the second area that require further legislation be indefinite leave to remain , which the Leader of the Opposition and I speak about last week . indefinite leave to remain , as the name imply , confer an indefinite right to reside in the UK and provide a number of privilege , include access to full benefit , social housing and pension right . it be the Opposition ' s view that it should be grant only if a person , have come here for work purpose , have make a genuine contribution — if they have earn more than they have pay in taxis , which we could measure by reference to a salary threshold . if , after someone come to the UK to work , it turn out they have not work and have become a burden on the taxpayer , or have work for a very low level of wage , imply they be not make a net contribution , it strike we as fair that they should not be grant indefinite leave to remain and that their visa should not be renew . last September , the Office for Budget Responsibility publish an analysis show that migrant on low wage carry a lifetime fiscal cost to the rest of the taxpayer of £ 500 , 000 . the Centre for Policy Studies recently publish an analysis show that the fiscal cost of those who might be grant ILR in the next four or five year will amount to £ 234 billion over their lifetime . we do not think it be reasonable for taxpayer to bear so high a cost for people who have arrive only relatively recently and have not make a significant contribution , so we will be table amendment to ensure that only those come here on work visa who have actually make a contribution will be eligible for indefinite leave to remain . I would be grateful to know whether the Minister for Border Security and Asylum will support that measure . the Government have preside over 25 , 000 illegal crossing since they come into office — a 28 % increase on the same period 12 month ago — and have fail to remove 96 % of the people who have cross the channel . they scrap the Rwanda deterrent before it even start , even though the National Crime Agency and their own Border Security Commander say that a deterrent be need and we have see it work in Australia . the Bill will cancel the Government ' s obligation to remove people who have come here illegally , and we see the Government create a path to citizenship for illegal migrant . this be a weak Bill from a weak government , and that be why we will oppose it . rise — we will start with an immediate five - minute time limit , with the exception of Front - Bench speech . I welcome this important Bill , which will introduce new counter - terror - style power to identify , disrupt and smash the people smuggle gang . I take this opportunity to commend the Home Secretary on the work the Government have already do to remove foreign criminal and immigration offender at the high rate since 2018 . by restart asylum processing to clear the backlog and redeploying 1 , 000 staff to work on immigration enforcement , the Government have be able to deport more than 16 , 000 people , while the previous Government deport just four volunteer . I want to focus on an extremely important aspect of the Bill that have go largely overlook , and on which I have be campaign for change . clause 43 and 44 will introduce new offence to clamp down on the rise of 3d - print firearm , which be a serious threat . such firearm present a new challenge to law enforcement because they can easily be make at home and be untraceable and undetectable by magnetometer in place such as airport and courthouse . while the UK have be successful in police gun crime , law enforcement agency have warn that they be underpowered to tackle this rise threat , so I be glad that the Bill address it . Birmingham , the city I represent , have regrettably become the gun capital of the United Kingdom , with nearly 600 firearm offence record in the West Midlands police area last year . in 2023 , a local man be convict of possession of a range of home - make assault rifle manufacture use a 3d printer in his home . that be why last year I introduce my Firearms ( 3d Printing ) Bill , which would make it an offence to possess and share the blueprint to build these deadly weapon and to possess part of a 3d - print firearm . I work with Channel 4 and Middlechild tv on a documentary about this issue , and I be shocked to learn that file contain ikea - like step - by - step guide to 3d print firearm at home can be download from the web in as little as three click . that be put the public at risk . I be therefore delighted that minister have waste no time in close this loophole , introduce much - need legislation and back my Bill . the horror of the Dunblane massacre in the 1990 mean that the UK have get much right on gun control . our constituent see mass shooting in other country and be thankful for the strong gun control we have here . however , that have never be a reason to be complacent , and the rise of 3d printer technology in recent year have present a novel threat . someone can buy a 3d printer for £ 150 . as we see in the Luigi Mangione case in the United States , 3d - print firearm be not toy , but deadly weapon . some might look like nerf gun , but 3d - print weapon can kill . in the United Kingdom , 3d - print firearm be grow in popularity , with several case in recent year . in 2023 , a man from Bradford be hold in possession of a FGC - 9 home - make automatic sub - machine - gun , magazine and bullet . in May 2023 , two man from Bradford and Hull be convict of plot to build and supply home - make weapon to criminal gang . in the same month , National Crime Agency officer uncover a factory in south London that be convert blank - fire gun into lethal weapon use 3d - print part . early this year , an islamist extremist be jail for seven year after be find with instruction on how to build 3d - print weapon . I mention the case in Birmingham , where a man be convict of make assault rifle in his own home similar in size and scope to the AK47 . the point of this legislation be to limit the accessibility of blueprint and prevent dangerous people use they to undermine gun control in the United Kingdom , and to send a strong message that the law will come down on those who want to do harm to our country . in conclusion , the Labour Government come to power promise safe street . I be proud that we be take strong action to deliver on that pledge . in a weaponising world , legislation must keep pace with new technology and the rise of new novel threat . my call for a change in legislation have mean that those seek to undermine our gun control to commit criminal act under the radar by download and share blueprint to make 3d - print gun will now face criminal charge . I thank the Government for that . finally , turn to other measure in the Bill , I commend the Government for take a practical approach to Britain ' s border security . the previous Government ' s effort be a disaster . they stop process asylum case while fail to deport people with no right to be here , with the result that thousand upon thousand of asylum seeker have be leave to languish in hotel and B & Bs across the country , cost the taxpayer billion . even more self - defeating be the previous Government ' s decision to write a blank cheque out of Britain ' s aid budget to pay for that mess , take away funding to tackle the crisis that many people be flee in the first place . there be no solution to the global displacement crisis without international development . the Bill be right to focus on the smuggling gang . we need to break the business model of the vile criminal who be still ship family across the channel , even in the freezing cold , with no concern as to whether they live or die . the Bill will equip our law enforcement agency with the power they need to stop they , disrupt their supply chain and bring most of those who profit from this human misery to justice . the new counter - terrorist power — Order . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we all want to stop the dangerous channel crossing , wherever we sit on the political spectrum . there be some measure propose in the Bill that we on the liberal Democrat Benches support , some that we do not think will be effective enough , and some that we will seek to amend in Committee . when in government , the Conservatives systematically dismantle safe and legal route to sanctuary , force desperate people into the arm of criminal smuggler . at the same time , they mismanage our asylum system so badly that they allow a massive backlog to build up , with thousand of people stick in limbo , ban from work and contribute to society , and cost taxpayer million . the current asylum system be not work for anyone . it be not work for community like mine , whose hotel be be use to house asylum seeker . it be not work for those house in those hotel for month and year wait for their application to be process , unable to get on with their life and integrate , ban from pay their fair share by work and thereby pay tax , and too often call by their room number , rather than their name . and it certainly be not work for the taxpayer who be fork out million to pay for this broken system . the Liberal Democrats want a fair , effective immigration and asylum system that treat people with dignity and respect . that mean scrap the unworkable and inhumane Rwanda scheme and invest the saving in clear the asylum backlog . that mean real action against the criminal gang profit from human misery , but it also mean tackle the root cause of the crisis , rather than just chase headline . application should be process quickly , so that those with a right to be here can integrate and contribute , and those without the right to be here can be return swiftly . the Bill , however , fail to provide a humane , legally sound and effective framework to achieve those goal . one of the big gap be in the area of modern slavery . the previous Government bring in the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which shamefully strip protection from those who arrive irregularly in the UK , leave victim at risk of further exploitation . this Bill do not reverse those measure , which exclude asylum seeker from the protection under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . far , without access to the national referral mechanism , survivor of modern slavery be leave without the support they need to rebuild their life . surely the Government can see that that play right into the hand of the very criminal they claim to be fight , by keep victim trap in exploitation rather than help they to escape . I just want to point out that , contrary to some of the reporting when the Bill be publish , the vast majority of the clause in the Illegal Migration Act that prevent child and other from have access to the national referral mechanism have , in fact , be repeal . I thank the Minister for her intervention . it be good that the vast majority have be deal with , and we will get into the detail of all of they in Committee . during the passage of the Illegal Migration Act , the Liberal Democrats table amendment to remove those restriction , which , have they be accept , would have protect survivor and make it easy to bring trafficker to justice . if the Government be serious about smash the gang , they should commit to establish a new single enforcement body to crack down on modern slavery in the UK , as the previous Government once promise and fail to deliver . whether it be domestic worker , seasonal agricultural worker , or , in the case of a raid on a Stockport abattoir only last week , meat processing worker , modern slavery be happen across our country today . we look forward to scrutinise the Bill in detail , line by line , in Committee . the Bill also continue the indefensible policy of detain child for extended period , a policy that undermine the UK ' s commitment to child welfare and international protection for unaccompanied minor . the liberal Democrats would end the detention of child for immigration purpose entirely and reduce detention for adult to an absolute last resort , with a strict 28 - day limit . another shortcoming be the lack of any serious attempt to improve safe and legal route for asylum seeker . the Government continue to restrict those route , force vulnerable people to risk their life at sea . they be crack down on the gang while simultaneously force asylum seeker into their hand . do Government Members not see the conflict ? by shut down legal route , the previous Government make the channel crossing crisis bad . under this Government , the cap on safe and legal arrival remain , limit those who wish to travel safely to the UK to claim asylum , rather than turn to smuggler . the Liberal Democrats would take a different approach . we would expand and properly fund the UK resettlement scheme , introduce humanitarian travel permit , and widen family reunion rule to well protect child . if we truly want to tackle smuggling gang , we must cut off their business model and that mean the existence of safe and legal route . the Bill could and should go far to improve cross - border co - operation . stop the gang that profit from human trafficking require more collaboration with our european partner . the UK should work more closely with Europol and the french authority to track and dismantle smuggling operation before people even reach the channel . as the Home Secretary say , this be an international crisis and it need an international solution . the UK should be lead in Europe on this issue . the Conservatives have long fail on immigration . they fail to stop the boat , fail to clear the asylum backlog and fail to crack down on trafficking gang . the Bill , for all its rhetoric , have too many miss opportunity . we look forward to scrutinise it in detail . the Liberal Democrats will continue to fight for an immigration system that be fair , humane and effective . the Bill pave the way to end 14 year of gimmick and sticking - plaster politic . the previous Government throw £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money at the Rwanda scheme , which , from the time it be introduce to the day it be scrap , see 84 , 000 people arrive on our shore in small boat . give the focus of the Bill , it be important that clear distinction be draw on its purpose , and on immigration itself . worker arrive here legally to fill the gap in industry and institution such as our national health service be vital contributor to our society and economy . migrant labour and immigration from Ireland and the commonwealth nation build my constituency in the 1920 and 1930 . not only be that a part of Dagenham and Rainham ' s heritage , but my heritage as the daughter of an irish immigrant . my dad come here for work in the ' 50 and contribute to our society throughout his life . equally , those flee war and devastation , human right abuse and more , have an international right to seek asylum . it be also important to acknowledge that our border can not be an open door , especially not to criminality or exploitation . that bring we to the focus of the Bill . it be why I welcome the Bill and will be support it on Second Reading . the Bill seek to close the gap , ensure that law enforcement agency be grant counter - terror - style power to tackle organise immigration crime . there be a public perception , and a perception of some who be new to the House , that those arrive here be somehow steal from the british people — take something away , whether it be job , home or service . the truth be , however , that many thousand of those who arrive on our shore find themselves exploit and trap , use in criminality , and throw into the life of modern slavery . with no recourse to public fund , they be not access our service , and without citizenship or national insurance , they be not take our home or our job . life be be lose , but the organise crime group who be fuel this — they be despicable people — do not care whether those who be exploit live or die , as long as they make a profit . back in October 2019 , close to my constituency , we see how that lead to the terrible tragedy of which the Home Secretary speak early , when 39 man and woman be find dead in a lorry in Grays . this can not continue . the Bill be , first and foremost , a way to disrupt organise immigration crime by scale up law enforcement and the response to border security check . it be about our Government get thing do : be tough on crime and tough on the cause of crime , and protect our border while still ensure that the vulnerable , and victim of organised crime , be offer the protection that they deserve . I call the Father of the House . this be a vital issue , and labour voter feel as strongly about it as conservative voter . our inability as a country to control the people smuggler be utterly debilitate to the political process , and be cause tremendous unhappiness and angst in our nation . we can throw brickbat across the Chamber and blame each other , argue about which Minister be or be not responsible , but until we solve this problem together we be simply feed a vast populist movement that could be intensely damaging to both the Conservative and labour party , so we have to work together to solve it . I know that I will not persuade Labour to support the Rwanda scheme , but experience show that the only effective deterrent be to detain and deport . we know that from other country , such as Australia . I will not become involved in an argument about whether Rwanda be right or not , or how many people be or be not export , and I agree that the Government should be commend for want to be see to do something , but what they be do be ineffective because it scrap the Rwanda scheme . the devil be in the detail , so let I deal with one detail to prove this point . article 33 of the 1951 refugee convention forbid the return of refugee to country where they may be at risk , but it create a specific exception for those claim refugee status who either pose a danger to the security of the country or have be convict of a particularly serious crime . that exception exist regardless of the threat of be persecute , so , under the convention , someone who be a criminal can be export to Afghanistan . article 3 of the european convention on human right be a very sensible and restrain one - sentence article prohibit torture , but the European Court have expand its meaning to interpret it as prohibit government from return individual to country where they could be subject to inhuman or degrading treatment . that be a massive extension of article 3 ' s sensible and reasonable intention . I be sorry to go into so much detail , but it be essential to understand what be go on . this be typical of the way in which judge have work to undermine legitimate Government action undertake by elect representative . two week ago , I sit in the hemicycle of the Council of Europe listen to Lord Hermer say that he would always accept every interpretation of the convention . that , in my view , be unhealthy , and undermine our democracy as well as the public legitimacy of the system . the refugee convention be draft in 1949 , in tandem with the european convention on human right — it be very old , even old than I be , and that be something — and it be draft by the same people . it be never intend that the ECHR should apply to immigration at that time ; it be only in the 1980 that judge in the European Court extend it . in 1996 , in Chahal v . United Kingdom , it be hold that there be an absolute rule to prevent the exporting of criminal . I be a delegate to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe , and the Government should work with other member there to seek to revise the convention . all european Governments be struggle : we be all in the same mess . do the right hon . Gentleman not agree that the european convention on human right and the European Court of Human Rights be not a pick and mix ? if we be sign up to the convention , we have to abide by the decision take by the Court . the right hon . Gentleman seem to be take an approach that do not accept the jurisdiction of that Court over UK law , which be implicit within the Human Rights Act 1998 in this country . I know that the right hon . Gentleman have a particular point of view , but what I be try to explain to the House be that the convention be never intend to apply to immigration . the refugee convention apply to it , and under the refugee convention we can export criminal . it be judge who have extend the european convention on human right . unless we persuade the Court to change , I be afraid that if we want to solve this problem — if we want to stop people come across the channel , and if we want to detain and deport — in the end we will have to grasp the nettle and get out of the european convention on human right . there be precedent for issue a temporary derogation , give that we be face a crisis , but if that be not heed , we always have the option to leave the convention altogether and opt out of the Strasbourg Court ' s expansive ruling . that cover the criminal claim asylum or enter illegally . for non - criminal , we need a programme like Rwanda , although it may not be Rwanda ; I know that I will not convince the Government on that . as for legal migration , the Government — any Government — must stop subsidise legal arrival undercut exist worker in Britain . I be very critical of my own Government for allow this mass immigration , and I be constantly raise these point from the Back Benches , but at least , albeit too late , the Conservative Government commit themselves to raise the earning minimum to meet the average earning in the UK . that must be keep up to date and enforce . let I end by say that it we be to solve this crisis , we need , ultimately , to get out of the convention , stop the boat , and stop import low - pay worker legally . it be an honour to follow the Father of the House . alongside a deterrent — perhaps — the first , foundational point of any system must be control at the border , and over the past 14 year we have certainly not have that . my constituent tell I that they want change , and want fairness to be at the heart of the border and asylum system . there have be chaos — chaos that see last year alone at least 77 soul lose their life by drown while cross the channel , about a third of they child ; chaos that see £ 700 million waste on a scheme that do nothing to stop those crossing , but pay for a grand total of four migrant to move voluntarily to Rwanda ; chaos that see ten of thousand of people come to the UK and then spend year in hotel , include a manor house in my town , in military basis while our serve personnel wait for home , and on barge , because the Government of the day refuse to process their claim . the Bill mark a sea change , away from chaos and towards a security that will allow we to tackle the human trafficking gang with counter - terrorism - style law and tactic — to go after they , lock they up , and take possession of the proceed of their crime . that security will allow we to welcome the most talented , the good and brightest , to make this country a well place , contribute to our public service , our cultural sector and our world - lead technology , research and innovation sector , together with the people who help our country around the world , include afghan interpreter . when thing go wrong , however — when law be break , or time be up — my constituent expect the state to have the ability , the right and the mechanism to remove people who have no right to remain here . the Bill take the welcome first step that will enable the state to remove such people , particularly those who come to the UK to commit crime . I urge the Government to go far , and allow british judge to impose stand - alone deportation order in case where the public interest be serve . during the general election campaign , many voter ask I about illegal migration . many of they have concern about small boat crossing . they feel that Britain should have control over our border , and that we should decide who can and can not enter our country . illegal small boat crossing undermine that principle , and make it impossible to have an asylum and immigration system that be both fair and functional . this Bill give Britain a well deal . it protect vulnerable people against human trafficking and dangerous small boat crossing , and it restore law and order at our border . it will give we great power to identify and detain the people behind the industry . it create a criminal offence of supply or handle item that be use for organise immigration crime . at long last , it allow we to tackle the problem upstream in order to stop a backlog the size of Colchester build up , as it do under the last Conservative Government ' s watch . today ' s Bill be about illegal migration and our approach to it . the merit of legal migration , and how to ensure a fair and balanced system , start with the Government ' s ability to decide who come in and who do not , and who stay and who do not . the Bill be a first step towards ensure that this Parliament , on behalf of the british people , make that decision — not criminal gang who make money from exploit and traffic child , woman and man . after 14 year , the shadow Home Secretary should have stand up and apologise . I have a warning for the public : those who come up with simple solution to complex problem be not tell the truth . this Bill be a first step in the hard work to take back control of our border . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . it be an honour to follow my fellow member of the Home Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) . he make exactly the right point in say there be no easy answer to this problem . I stand here in another immigration Bill debate — I do not know how many I have attend in the 15 year that I have be in Parliament . Madam Deputy Speaker , you hold the brief of Immigration Minister for some time . we have all try to combat this problem , and we all want to see the same solution . I sincerely wish the Home Secretary and her team of Ministers the good of luck in get the Bill right , which may mean that there need to be some amendment to make sure that it actually deliver what she want it to deliver , because there be no easy solution . there be no silver bullet that will solve this problem , and any politician who dare to stand up and say , " only one thing be go to make this well , " be mislead the public and make it hard for all of we to do the job that we be elect to do . it be important to say that the Bill build on previous work , include on datum sharing and return . these be all matter that government of every colour have work on for many year . I congratulate the Secretary of State on focus on those , but it be right to say that this be a process rather than an event , that these be thing that all party and all government have work on , and that legislation can only go so far . this be about how enforcement happen , about training and about understanding at the frontline . I praise the NCA , which have do incredible work on this issue globally for many year and continue to do so . we need to remember when people get to the beach in northern France that an awful lot of other do not make it there because of the work of the NCA and other part of our law enforcement system . illegal migration be a global problem , and we can not escape that . we have talk about the increase in number , which be down to global event . this be happen across the world ; we be not the only country suffer from this problem . we might see it acutely on the boat cross the channel , but this be happen everywhere . may I ask the Home Secretary to use her good office , and those of the Prime Minister , to raise this issue at all multilateral level ? we need it to be on the agenda for the UN General Assembly , and we need an annual head of Government meeting at a UN level to look at this matter . the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , talk about when the refugee convention be write and what it be write for . thing be different now . we be live in a different world , which mean that we need to work together globally to deal with this issue . in the short time I have , I will make just a couple of point . I welcome the measure on endanger life at sea , but the devil will be in the detail . we will need to make sure that the measure be properly understand by those enforce the law , and that they can actually be implement . the Home Affairs Committee have hear that if a boat get on to a beach near Calais , it be very difficult for anyone to intervene at that point because of the legal position in international maritime law and other matter . I also welcome the protection measure and the biometric testing . I meet representative of the British Red Cross last week , and they have some very interesting idea about potentially expand where that testing could take place . I hope that the Home Secretary and the Minister can take that point forward . my final point be about modern slavery . I welcome what the Home Secretary say about the protection for victim of modern slavery , but I want to reiterate that modern slavery be not a migration crime ; it be a financial crime . it be the exploitation of one human being by another for financial profit , and we must not confuse the two . if somebody choose to pay a people smuggler to put they in an unsafe vessel , that be a crime , but it be a consensual crime . if somebody have be force to get into an unsafe vessel , that be a coercive crime and need to be treat differently . in much the same way as our policy response to a person who get ill from have their drink spiked be different from our policy response to somebody who get ill from take an illegal substance that they choose to buy , there have to be a different policy response to victim of modern slavery . may I ask the Home Secretary and the Minister to make sure that , throughout the passage of this Bill and elsewhere , the victim of modern slavery be put at the forefront and can get the protection they need ? they should enter the national referral mechanism so that they can be look after . we owe it to the world to be a leader in this matter , and I fear that if we do not take those step , we will fail to be so . I rise in support of this important Bill , which be a crucial step as this Government regain control of our border after the conservative party lose control . my constituency be a diverse and welcome place . we have a long and proud history of migrant from around the world come to work and contribute to our community , and we have a proud history of welcome refugee flee persecution and abuse . that compassion be part of who we be as a country , but our compassion must always come alongside control and a system that be fair . that be why my constituent be right to be angry about illegal crossing . when the last government lose control of our border , it risk life and undermine our national security , and mean that people could cheat the system . it also mean that million of pound be be spend unnecessarily while our public service be on their knee . enough be enough . this Government be determined to secure our border . whereas the conservative party choose the path of sound tough but fail to deliver , since the election this Government have roll up their sleeve . whereas the conservative party pick fight with France , we have make landmark deal with international partner . whereas the conservative party spend nearly £ 9 million a day on hotel for asylum seeker , we have restart process to save the taxpayer £ 4 billion a year over the next two year , and to end the use of hotel . [ Official Report , 11 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) whereas the conservative party spend year pursue the fiction of the Rwanda scheme to send a sum total of four volunteer , on our watch 32 charter flight have return migrant across the world , enforce return be up by 24 % on the year before the election , and our street have be make safe through the removal of 2 , 500 foreign criminal . the Bill before we do two really important thing . first , it remove from the statute book the fallacy of the Rwanda scheme — the so - call deterrent that see 84 , 000 people cross the channel between the day it be announce and the day it be scrap . secondly , the Bill remove a hodgepodge of unenacted and unworkable clause , whose sole purpose in law be to act as a monument to conservative failure . most importantly , this Bill deliver a range of counter - terror - style power that I believe will enable we systematically to dismantle the vile criminal gang who facilitate small boat crossing and risk life . it introduce new offence , so that we can use every tool possible to put gang leader away ; new power to seize device , check biometric and share datum ; and a new role for our new Border Security Command , so that we can ensure that all agency work together . no more empty rhetoric ; instead , a common - sense , intelligence - lead approach to border security . we be take down the gang and build the international relationship that we need to regain control . we have turbocharge our asylum system so that we can return people with no right to be here and allow those grant asylum the chance to work and contribute . a real plan . no more empty rhetoric from the Conservatives or Reform ; these be concrete step to secure our border , and I will be proud to vote for Second Reading today . I can not help but think that the Home Secretary think that border control , reduce illegal migration and stop the boat be go to be considerably easy than it have turn out to be . she speak with great authority and confidence ahead of the election , and yet , as the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , have highlight , since take office the Labour Government have see almost every key metric go in the wrong direction . I therefore think it be right for we to look at what be actually in the Bill — not just the tone and the rhetoric , but the detail . what the Home Secretary say in general term be quite welcome , but let we look at the example of the new Border Security Command . at the Dispatch Box and in the media studio , she have speak about this new , powerful organisation that will bring a step change in the co - ordination of our national response to illegal migration , so when the Bill be publish , I look with great interest at the specific provision for this new , powerful organisation head by a senior former police officer and a senior former Royal Artillery officer — a wise choice of regiment — and I find myself say , " be that it ? " look at the detail , we see , as my right hon . friend set out , that this powerful new organisation will be able to write a plan , to present an annual set of account and then to ask nicely , but not compel , any other organisation to do its bidding . the headline might sound great , but the detail be frankly underpowered . this Bill remove more power from the Government than it put on the table — as my right hon . Friend say , the ability to seize and search mobile phone already exist — so when we come to the division later this evening , we will be make our decision on what be actually in the Bill , not on the rhetorical cloud that surround it . the simple truth be that the Government have an opportunity to make something different and to be courageous , but they miss the target . this Bill be massively underpowered . it do not have the kind of game - change clause that the current situation demand . People on both side of the House may disagree with the detail of the Rwanda scheme , which this Bill repeal , but it be at least an attempt to do something significant in response to a significant situation . ultimately , the Home Secretary will have to explain , or perhaps the Minister for Border Security and Asylum will do so in she sum up , where she envisage people be return to if they fail in their asylum application here in the UK but their home nation be deem unsafe to return they to — the Afghans , the Syrians and people from other part of the world . if the Home Secretary be say that they can not go to their home country or to a third country , she be by definition say that they can stay here , and that be a blank cheque for hundred of million of people around the world . she can be as critical of I and the Conservatives as she like , but until she come up with a credible alternative , her criticism be massively undermined , and this be not a credible alternative . this be a miss opportunity . this be word but not action . this be headline but no substance . when this Bill be pass , as it inevitably will be because the Home Secretary have a majority , but then fail to achieve what she have promise , she will find that her party be punish at the ballot box . I shall begin by commit my support to the Government ' s effort today . after year of the Conservatives fail to secure our border with fail project such as the Rwanda scheme , it be refreshing to see legislation come forward in this place that will smash criminal smuggling gang and disrupt their ability to carry out small boat crossing . when debate such issue , we must not forget the life lose in small boat crossing . they include woman and child , often flee violence and persecution , and they be treat in the most abhorrent manner by criminal gang who put they on those small boat with no care whatsoever for their safety , or indeed for whether they make it across the channel . we must be in no doubt that the sole focus of these criminal people smuggler be profit . they care not for the life of the vulnerable and frightened , but only for line their own pocket and the continuation of their despicable criminal enterprise . although not a surprise , it remain absolutely absurd that Reform UK and increasingly the Tories , under the Leader of the Opposition , point the finger at a government that be actually work to address this issue , rather than work co - operatively to save life , punish criminal and secure our border . it would be fair to say that Reform UK be engage in a form of politic that absolutely scrape the barrel . it be focus on pit work people against one another . its language and manner have see people who have be settle in this country for decade become increasingly frightened about walk their own street , and it have no care whatsoever if its action erode the great british value of tolerance , inclusivity and respect . do my hon . friend agree that perhaps the reason reform be not here tonight be because it have so many other job to attend to ? I certainly agree with my hon . friend . as the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have say , the act of criminal gang must be treat as a global security threat , and as such must be address use counter - terrorism tactic . I be pleased that this legislation will allow immigration enforcement , the police and the National Crime Agency to seize electronic device from people who come here illegally , if intelligence suggest that this would help to gather information on organise immigration crime . indeed , I be reassure that these measure have be establish in co - operation with law enforcement and by learn good practice from other example of tackle and defeat sophisticated and organised crime . in take these step , we will limit and disrupt the operation of the criminal gang , which be critical to secure our border . this stand in stark contrast to the previous Government , who spend £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money on their fail Rwanda scheme . their costly gimmick send just four volunteer to Rwanda and cause a complete collapse in asylum decision making . what a difference serious government make . be it any wonder that the people of this country vote for change ? we have debate in great detail the technicality of this legislation , but I would like to briefly look at my own constituency of Airdrie and Shotts . lanarkshire be a place where many community from across the globe have settle , where their culture have be respect and enjoy , and where people have be welcome after flee situation that could only be describe as horrify . however , just last week when I hold my surgery on Friday , I take a walk around Airdrie and find graffiti in our town centre that can only be describe as racist , abhorrent and hostile . it be the sort of language that be not welcome in Airdrie and Shotts , and I reiterate my support and solidarity for those community who have make our town and village their home over many generation and contribute positively to our local area . immigration must be control , but it can and do work . I conclude by remind those on the Opposition Benches that people be watch . People be listen to their rhetoric , and if they continue to embark on a campaign of rhetoric and divisive messaging , they risk destroy the historic tie , tolerance and unity that make Britain great . well , here we go again — another Government with the same old , tired , fail approach to asylum and immigration . other than get rid of the truly bizarre Rwanda Bill , this Bill just pick up where the Tories leave off , with the add extra of far criminalise asylum seeker . I can not help feel that a lot of the activity and debate around this Bill have quite a lot to do with reform ' s rise in the opinion poll . its member usually sit behind I but , bizarrely , they have not turn up to debate this immigration Bill . the bizarre video of the Home Secretary go to deportation centre and the poster celebrate the Government ' s success in deport and kick people out play right into reform ' s territory . I say to Labour Members that they will never out - reform Reform — they be master of the art of anti - immigrant rhetoric . regardless of how hard Labour Members try , they be mere amateur by comparison . all Labour be do by go on to reform ' s territory be legitimise it . you do not pander to the populist and the like of reform ; you take they on . the Bill do nothing to address the real issue we will confront in the middle - to - late part of this century . the Bill be totally fixate on the small number of people who come across the channel in small boat , but it do nothing to tackle the massive structural problem that be about to come our way because of population stagnation and population decline . if anything , this Bill be design for the early part of the century , not for the part of the century we be about to enter . nation across the industrialised world , include Italy , Spain and France , be take action to increase their population . South Korea have pump $ 200 billion into what it call the demography crisis . Japan have historically be resistant to immigration , and with a birth rate of one child for every three woman , its population be predict to fall by 25 % by 2050 . Japan will fall from third in the GDP league to eighth — that be what be come our way . even the Bill ' s purpose of defeat the gang be doom to failure . this Bill do nothing to address the root cause of irregular immigration , and it do not even start to get curious about why there be a problem with immigration in the first place . all it will do be make immigrant take even great risk . it will have very little impact on the gang the Government be target , as the gang will adapt their business model accordingly . the Government might inadvertently make the gang ' obnoxious trade even more lucrative . the smuggling gang be successful because they have exclusive right and a monopoly on the irregular immigration market . there be nowhere else for people to go other than to the illegal gang , as there be no safe route to get into the UK . we have particular problem in Scotland . our population be currently around 5 . 43 million , and it have grow modestly over the past few year because of the Conservative Government ' s immigration debacle , but Scotland will be one of the first part of the UK to experience population decline , and it could come as early as 2030 . that be why we have be so resolute and persistent in call for a scottish visa , and all sector in Scotland now support that call . rise — I think Scottish Labour also support it , as the hon . Gentleman will probably clarify . of course , the issue be that Scotland be not the same everywhere . my community in Edinburgh and East Lothian be see its population grow , while other part be see their population decline . the reason be Scotland ' s labour market and economy . even when we have access to 300 million people as an EU member , with net migration of 900 , 000 , there be still part of Scotland that be unable to attract migrant . the problem be not the immigration system ; the problem be our labour market . order . I do not think the hon . Gentleman understand the scale of the problem in our nation of Scotland . twenty - two per cent of our population be over 65 , compare with 19 % in England . we have one of the low birth rate ratio , with one child for every three woman . if we do not do something quickly , this will have a huge impact on every sector of our society and every part of our economy . I think Scottish Labour support a scottish visa . I have hear Jackie Baillie speak very interestingly about it , but all of a sudden Scottish Labour have abandon it . every time I raise it with the Home Secretary , I be totally rebuffed . every time my colleague ask the Government to give we the tool to help address our predicament , we be tell where to go . we need the tool so that Scotland can grow its population , and so that we can equip ourselves for the problem that be already come our way . we need a new mindset on immigration , which we have to start see as a benefit to community . we have to recognise how it enrich our society . for the Government , immigration be a bad that have to be deal with , and that be such an early - century approach . we will soon be face population stagnation and decline . unless we get ready and prepare for what be come , we will be in serious trouble . I look across at Labour Members who be singularly uninterested in any of this . they want to be as hard on immigration as the Tories and the Reform party . it do not work , it can not work , and it be the wrong solution for where we be head . I encourage they to think once again about what we all need across the United Kingdom . I commend the Home Secretary and her team for the reform in the Bill that be genuinely positive , include the scrapping of the unworkable and costly plan to expel asylum seeker to Rwanda — a repressive regime that be make war on its neighbour . the Bill rescue we from the " Alice in Wonderland " situation in which Rwanda be safe if the Government say it be safe . the Government have also scrap and tow away the Bibby Stockholm , the miserable and dangerous prison ship , and commit to decide asylum claim that have previously be place in indefinite limbo . those be all positive development . however , it be difficult to be positive about the remainder of the Bill . it clearly aim to prioritise border security , but the malign greek chorus that chant " stop the boat ! " in response to every problem in our society be wrong . with these measure , as with other , the boat will not be stop unless we look at the issue holistically . have we stop organised crime , drug , people traffic , fraud , firearm and so on ? of course not , because some of those crime be high - tech operation , but all these overseas - base people smuggler need be a dinghy . we can not have a credible plan to smash the gang unless we deal first with the demand for what they supply . many of we have long argue that the way to undercut and ultimately eliminate the gang be to re - establish safe and legal route for asylum seeker , to establish processing centre in northern France , to turn away fail applicant , and to allow safe travel for those who be entitle to be here . do my hon . friend agree that more people should listen to those of we who say that , if we do not want people drown in the channel , the answer be to enable the processing of asylum claim in northern France , as the French have offer ? I thank my right hon . friend for her intervention , and obviously she be always right . it be not impossible ; in fact , it have be do before . instead , this Bill could end up criminalise people because of how they travel here , which be wrong . it be widely understand that many of these people , precisely because they be victim of persecution , can not apply for visa in the normal fashion , and many more can not afford the cost of long - haul flight either . genuine and valid asylum seeker could be criminalise . we should remember that these people be flee war and devastation . some have be traffic , and many of those be bring here as slave — either for domestic service and menial unpaid work , or for sex slavery . the Bill could abolish their right and protection under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . then there be the question of immigration detention , which will increase as a result of the Bill . the immigration detention estate be already costly and cruel . it be a ridiculous irony that we be release criminal because our jail be full , yet we be increase the use of immigration detention despite 75 % of those detain eventually be find to be entitle to be here . the main concern have be foreign national offender , and 4 , 674 be return in the year end September 2024 . that be an increase of more than a quarter compare with the previous year , which mean that this Government be do what they want to do on foreign national offender . why be we hold on to the idea of increase the immigration detention estate when we know that in 2019 the Conservative Government award asylum accommodation contract worth billion of pound to just three company , and almost every single one of the removal centre operate by those company have report overcrowding , hostile and unsanitary condition , and , at bad , death and suicide ? those centre be costly and cruel . a limit on immigration detention would be both humane and efficient . the average daily cost of hold an individual in immigration detention be £ 122 . what a huge cost when there be option for detention in the community . Most people be detain when they go to their bi - weekly reporting session at the Home Office . we be detain far too many people unlawfully . in 2023 - 24 , the Home Office issue 832 compensation payment for unlawful detention , total £ 12 million . as we have hear , we detain child — in 2023 , the Home Office detain 47 child for immigration - relate reason . we disagree on many thing across the House , but the right of child be not usually one of they . People say there be complex reason why such detention happen . to that I say : " make it simple and make it stop . " we should not be detain child for immigration - relate reason . I be also concerned that the Bill might undermine the application of international law to refugee . section 29 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 will be untouched , even though it be a truly rotten measure introduce by the Conservatives , who have a problematic relationship with international law . we on the Government Benches must be well than they . at the moment , a trafficked woman who arrive here have be abduct halfway across the world would have no right as refugee , precisely because her trafficker bring she here on a small boat . that can not be right . the Bill focus on small boat crossing , but it be an immigration Bill , and that mean it do not all have to be negative . there be thing we could do that we largely agree on , such as scrap child citizenship fee and introduce further protection for European Union national and the Windrush generation . when we be in opposition , we support scrap child citizenship fee . the shadow Home Secretary , when he be the immigration Minister , implement a fee waiver , but last year only 36 % of those waiver be accept — 40 % be reject and 22 % be await decision . that be just not good enough . this be about child who have live here for their whole life — child who be bear here , include the child of EU national . we know that EU national continue struggle with their right , which be something that we could resolve . we can all agree that the Windrush generation have the right to be here , but they be still have major issue ; we should not wait for the appointment of the Windrush commissioner to be tell that they be still subject to the hostile environment . we could do so much more on thing we agree on , but unfortunately there be too many instance where victim can be blame for the crime , and I worry that the Bill could codify that injustice in law . we have hear that there be no easy answer to the topic of tackle illegal immigration , but as member of this House , we have to find within ourselves the collective will to succeed . since July , 24 , 586 people have cross the channel , compare with 19 , 300 in the same period the year before , which represent a 28 % increase since the election . that show clearly that the Government need to go far with legislation to strengthen the nation ' s response to illegal immigration . I can not understand why the Government be seek , through the Bill , to abandon X - ray assessment of asylum seeker to validate their age and prevent a surge in false applicant . all other major country on the continent , include France and Germany , make use of medical test to determine the age of applicant . the lack of such testing significantly increase the pull factor , and the Bill also create a path to citizenship for illegal migrant , which provide a direct new incentive for people to come here illegally . the truth be that , in many case , those who travel via illegal route and seek to claim asylum in the UK travel through numerous safe country throughout Europe before they arrive here . we have hear from other member that this issue be global , and I implore the Home Secretary and Ministers across Government to raise it at every single meeting with foreign government . the stark reality be that 87 % of those arrive via illegal small boat be young man in their 20 . that beg the question : where be their wife , partner and child ? surely they do not flee a devastating situation of persecution and desperation , and leave their love one behind to suffer . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? not at the moment . furthermore , many of they pay thousand of pound to smuggling gang before they make the journey . these false case do huge damage to public trust in the asylum system , as well as to the case of genuine asylum seeker . over the past two decade , our economy have become addicted to mass migration , and we have be sell the idea that our economic prosperity hinge on the notion that mass migration will deliver prosperity . we be wrong on mass migration . it have instead place undue pressure on public service , and housing in particular . many migrant perform valuable role , particularly in public service such as the NHS and the care sector , but it be critical that the Government focus for the long term on rebalance our economy in order to once again make all manner of role attractive to UK citizen , and reduce our dependency on long - term migrant labour . mass migration , especially by those who skip the queue and arrive illegally , do not just impact we economically , but affect the social identity of our community . the identity of many city , town and village across the UK be change . part of that be down to we , as shopping habit go online , but , as report in the Times today , there have be an increase in illegal worker in retail role across the country , as cash - only vape shop , tanning salon , convenience store , barber and car wash start to litter our community , with no social benefit to enrich our town and village . not only be such business widely consider to be a front for money laundering , but they be link to illegal immigration and people smuggle . they be a dangerous lure for young people who risk be draw into county line - style link criminality . we owe it to the future of our country to ensure that we have a control , measure approach to mass migration , and to respond with every legal , social and economic lever that we have to protect against the unmitigated erosion of our identity . we must ensure that those who be grant the privilege of leave to remain in the UK be net contributor — that is , they pay more in taxis than they cost the UK taxpayer — and that the custom , tradition and culture of our country be respect . we must make the distinction between those travel illegally and asylum seeker travel to the UK via recognise route of asylum , such as those who travel to the UK from Ukraine when Putin ' s illegal invasion commence three year ago . it be a falsehood that the UK can become home to million of people without any qualifying criterion . my constituent be not anti - immigration , but they want to see a system base on control and fairness to the UK taxpayer . I implore the Government to rethink the Bill , focus on reduce the pull factor to deter illegal migration , and invest the saving into our community . I draw the attention of the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests on the help I receive from the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy project and as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on migration . after the mountain of act pass by the last government , I can finally breathe a sigh of relief that today we be debate an immigration Bill that , on its first page , state that it comply with the convention right . that be a nice change , and one that be much need . the Bill build on some of the vital reform to our asylum system that our Government have already make . it remove so much of the draconian legislation introduce by the previous Government that strip those flee war , persecution and human right abuse of their right to seek safety in this country . repeal the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 and a significant amount of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be a step in the right direction , but beyond a functional asylum system be one that be fair and welcoming . with that in mind , there be a few area of the Bill in which I feel opportunity have be miss , and I hope those can be address as it move to Committee . I be concerned that the Bill do not repeal section 59 of the Illegal Migration Act , which make any asylum or human right claim by a national of a safe state inadmissible . Blanket ban on asylum claim from entire country be fundamentally flawed , and with Rwanda we have see the danger of legislate that a country be safe when in reality it may not be so for everyone . although I know that section 59 have not be enact , it will set a dangerous precedent if it remain on the statute book . for example , Georgia , one of the country that the previous Government add to the safe state list , be become an increasingly hostile and dangerous place for lgbtqi + people . while I have have assurance that the section 59 power have not be commence — and I know the Minister share my concern about the situation in Georgia — they will be leave on the statute book . the Bill provide a golden opportunity to repeal they altogether . if they be not go to be use , what be the use of have they ? I ask the Minister to consider that in Committee . a fair system would also mean people seek asylum be able to access the UK safely . the four Ps approach to tackle organise criminal gang , as outline in the Bill ' s explanatory note — to prevent , pursue , protect and prepare — be all important part of disrupt the business model of criminal gang , but I fear that we have lose sight of who need protect . no one want to see more death in the channel , but prosecute people smuggler need to go hand in hand with other measure to prevent channel crossing . the Bill could provide a vital opportunity to set out clear plan for review and expand safe and legal route to the UK . I hope that those important point can be address as the Bill progress . if not , I hope that we can have a good , grow - up conversation about safe and legal route , which be absolutely missing from the last Parliament . I think that everybody across the House want to see small boat crossing diminish and hopefully conclude entirely . likewise , I think that most people across the House feel that we need to have a fair , robust and effective way to deal with illegal immigration . this , as I have say previously in the House , be a moral issue . we do not want to see any more woman , child or man die in the channel . when I raise that with the Home Secretary on 22 July , she seem to agree with I , but thus far agreement do not seem to have mature into action . indeed , when the Minister of State respond to I on a similar point on 6 November , she be much more equivocal about how the Government be go to deal with this really serious issue . that be no surprise when we come to the Bill , which have rip the heart out of the previous Government ' s Illegal Migration Act . all the deterrence put into that Act have be pull out . that be important for two reason . first , this Bill will clearly not stop the small boat crossing . secondly , it send a message to those trafficker who want to exploit people and bring they across the channel that the Government be not serious about stop the problem . we can see that from the Bill . as my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) mention , the x - ray and medical check of migrant have be rip out . that be something that EU country do on a routine basis . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . these point be obviously go to come from Conservative Members . have they read the comment of the noble Lord Winston in the other place on 27 November 2023 , when he outline that while scientific equipment may be use , the analysis that come from bone density check or x - ray be entirely flawed ? the result depend on the calcium deposit and the food that be eat by the person be x - ray , as well as other health reason . have the hon . Gentleman read those comment ? if not , could he read they ? if he have read they , do he disagree with what Lord Winston say and think he know well ? far be it from I to criticise a Member of the other place , especially one with such a distinguished medical career . all I would say gently to the hon . member be that this be not novel or unique to this country ; it be be use in country across the EU . likewise , on the Rwanda scheme , which the Government scrap , we can have a debate about whether it be right or wrong , but EU country be look at similar scheme . if the Government do not like Rwanda , why be they not look at other site ? it be not just I who be say this . the National Crime Agency have say clearly that no country have ever stop people traffic upstream in foreign country . while the Australians have do it , that be with a deportation scheme , but that be not be introduce by the Government . likewise , the former chief immigration officer Kevin Saunders say that the United Kingdom need a " big deterrent " and that everyone have tell the Prime Minister that . we need a big deterrent to stop migrant . forget about the gang : if we stop the migrant from want to come to the UK , the gang will not exist . I come at this from a moral point of care about ensure that people do not die in the channel . we need a deterrent , which be sorely miss from the Bill . it should not surprise we that the Government be not robust on this , because Labour vote against every tough measure that the previous Government introduce in the Illegal Migration Act . Labour Members vote against measure to tackle illegal immigration 134 time . they vote to block , delay or weaken our plan to stop the boat 126 time in the last Parliament . it be therefore absolutely no surprise that their Bill do nothing to stop that and will lead to more die in the channel . we need a fair migration system . we need to support those who genuinely need our help or whom we genuinely need to fill gap in our labour market , but we must not be take for fool by the trafficking gang , nor must we be take for fool by this Labour Government . I accept some of the analysis of the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , who say that we have a problem with our birth rate . however , the way to solve that be not through unlimited mass migration . as my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove say , we can not build an economy reliant on mass migration . we must build home - grow resilience . again , this be a moral issue . if we denude develop country of their most highly talented people , those country will never be able to rebuild themselves and become successful , and the problem that we be deal with will just carry on . I have no confidence in the Government to sort this problem out . that be because , as we have already see this evening , the Government have no answer on how many of the people who come over on small boat they have deport . perhaps more tellingly , they have no ambitious target about when any of the measure they be propose will start to solve the problem . as I say , we need a fair , robust and effective immigration system , and not this insipid Bill , which will not secure our border or deter the people trafficker , and , I be afraid , will lead to further death in the channel . the british people be firm , but they be fair . they believe in order . they believe in justice . they know that security and decency be not rival ; they be partner . those be the value that build our country , and they must be the value that shape our future , but for too long we have see those value undermine . the promise of secure border become a false hope . the system buckle under failure . where there be failure , there be some who seek to divide we : to turn neighbour against neighbour and to fuel fear instead of fix problem . they wrap themselves in our great flag , yet they offer nothing but empty slogan and false patriotism . border security be not a game . it be not a slogan . it be a fundamental duty of any serious government . for year , the british people be promise control ; instead , they get failure . we inherit open border . small boat crossing skyrocket from just a few hundred in 2018 to 150 , 000 since . the last government talk tough but be paralyse by their own failure . under Labour , that end . in just six month , the Government have already take decisive action . we have set up the Border Security Command and we have fix and strengthen important international alliance . nearly 4 , 000 illegal worker have be arrest since we come into government . vitally , we have deport 16 , 400 people who have no right to be here — that be more in six month than the last Government manage in an entire year . the british people be tell that this could not be do , but we be prove otherwise . today , we take another crucial step with this important Bill . the smuggling gang be not petty criminal or opportunist ; they be predator , and they make a mockery of our border . we promise the british people that we would treat they like the national security threat they be , and that be exactly what the Bill do . we do not wait for terrorist to carry out their plan before we act . we disrupt they , we intercept they and we take they down before they can do harm . we hit their network , seize their asset and cut off their ability to operate . the Bill give we the power to do the same against the smuggling gang , to stop those vile criminal before they reach our shore . it allow we to use intelligence to take action , just as we do with terrorist . when our security service , police and the Border Security Command know what those criminal be do , under the Bill they can act immediately , not sit back and wait for another overloaded boat to capsize in our channel . I kindly say to the hon . gentleman — he will know that that be my form when I ask question — that there be a serious problem with the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic , with people come in through the Republic , into Northern Ireland and across to the mainland . what be the Minister and the Government do to address that issue for we in Northern Ireland and the whole of the United Kingdom ? my understanding from the Minister early be that the Bill would work across all border come into the United Kingdom — I be sure that will be clarify later . the Bill remove the loophole that have allow criminal to exploit our system . smuggling be an industry , and we be dismantle it boat by boat , gang by gang . the british people know that an asylum and immigration system only work if it be properly enforce . they know that border security be not about hostility ; it be about order and rule . they know that we must not allow criminal to decide who come into this country . there be no silver bullet , but this Government be take that control back . we will be firm , because the british people demand it ; we will be fair , because that be who we be ; and we will be decent , because strength without decency be weakness . division be easy . it take moral courage to lead with decency and strength . we be deliver security , and we play the ball , not the player . the Bill will help turn the page on failure , restore order to our border and protect the country we serve . many people in my constituency be angry and frustrate at Britain ' s approach to illegal migration . they see hundred of people every week get into small boat to cross the channel . those people pay for a place in a small boat because they know that once they set foot on british soil , there be almost no prospect of their be deport . that be morally wrong . it bring the whole immigration system into disrepute . early in the debate , the Home Secretary be invite to say how many of those she have deport in the past seven month have arrive in a small boat , and there be no answer . I suspect the reason be that the answer be zero , but no doubt the Minister can provide an answer when she respond . it be self - evident that most of the migrant stand on beach in France be not refugee ; they be economic migrant . they have not only reach a safe country , but have have to travel through a succession of safe country to arrive at that beach in France . the National Crime Agency have make it clear that to stop the boat , we need an effective removal and deterrence strategy . the Bill do not deliver that . in fact , it do the opposite : it remove the key deterrent that we have put in place . the last Government be correct in pass the Illegal Migration Act , which would have stop those who enter the UK illegally from claim asylum or be eligible for british citizenship . twenty day after the election , Labour put it on hold , and it be now repeal those provision through the Bill . it be a privilege to live in this country and to apply for british citizenship . the Government be remove the barrier to access that privilege and be therefore invite thousand more people to join the queue . that be why the asylum backlog have grow under this Government . that be why the number of people in asylum hotel have rise by 6 , 000 since the election . as my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) state , this be a seriously under - powered Bill . it actually do very little , and it reveal the Home Secretary ' s policy of " smash the gang " to be just a slogan . former chief immigration officer Kevin Saunders say , " you need a big deterrent to stop the migrant . forget about the gang — if you stop the migrant want to come to the UK , the gang win ' t exist . " unfortunately , the Bill provide no deterrent . in fact , it remove the deterrent that be work . it have no vision for control illegal or legal immigration , no plan to protect our border and no strategy to ensure that those who break the law by come here illegally be remove quickly and effectively . the Home Secretary claim this evening that the Government be repeal our legislation because it do not work . do it not work when we strike landmark deal like the one with Albania , which drastically reduce the number of albanian migrant arrive via small boat ? by make it clear that they would repeal the Rwanda scheme before it start work without come up with any alternative deterrent , the message that the Labour party have be send to would - be illegal migrant be , " come and have a go " . be it any wonder that illegal crossing be up 30 % since the election ? the Government be not in control of the border , so we Conservative Members will reject the Bill . our reason amendment will give member a chance to say that we want strong action on illegal immigration . like many colleague across the House , I be in no doubt that immigration and border security be a top concern for many of the people I represent in Weston - super - Mare . they tell I on the doorstep , by email and on social medium that this be not a conversation that we can shy away from , although any conversation on immigration and border security be easily inflame and sensitive for many . as the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) say , there be no silver bullet and there be no simple answer , and those who peddle they be peddle falsehood , but we must talk about and do well at show how we be address people ' s concern . concern about immigration and the pressure it place on any society or community be understandable , but so be concern for all human life and the need to support people in need . how we lead on improve border security be a moral duty of this Government , and as a Christian I wrestle with that and with how we well achieve a balance between compassion for those who need help , and clarity and strength when it come to defend our security and value . in my constituency , like many other , there be strong view on the extreme of both side of the immigration question . they be often very loud and absolutely at odd with the view of the vast majority of my constituent , who believe in british value of fairness , tolerance , human right and the rule of law . they want our system to work , be proud of Britain ' s role as a force for good in the world and want we to sort our immigration system . we need the Government to deliver on a fair immigration and border system precisely so that people can trust we again to keep they safe and do not turn to extreme because they feel there be no alternative . People be worried and want action , and it be this Government ' s responsibility to address those issue in a way that be firm but compassionate , just and in line with our value . the grow number of crossing , particularly in small boat , be not just a statistic ; it be a crisis that demand urgent action . the tragic loss of life — at least 78 people die last year alone — should horrify we all , and we can not allow that to continue . it be clear that our action to secure our border and smash the gang who be profit from this evil trade in human desperation be necessary and urgently need . immigration , both legal and illegal , be of huge national and local concern , which have be feed in many way by decade of under - investment in our community , skill and infrastructure , leave we reliant on import the skill that we should have be develop here for our community in place such as Weston - super - Mare . I lay no blame at the door of immigrant who come here for a well life and who contribute so much to our country . I blame successive government for take the easy route — or the impossible route in the case of the Rwanda scheme — and leave we in a situation where public trust be through the floor . People can no long be leave behind because it be easy and cheap to import talent and labour . I see the impact of poverty and systemic under - investment daily , and the people of my constituency and I will not stand for it . that be why I be pleased that the Government be take concrete action through the introduction of the Bill , rather than follow the example of previous government and continue to use border security as a political football . we must find sustainable , meaningful and impactful solution now . we have run out of road and public patience . the Bill alone will not fix the deep distrust in our society — that will take year of demonstrable change and investment across housing , healthcare , community safety and job — but it will start that process by strengthen our response to border security threat , grant strong law enforcement power that allow we to go after organise immigration crime directly , and disrupt the criminal network that profit from human misery . it will properly equip the team on the ground to deal with this issue by enable they to act fast and go far in protect our border and national security . such action be long overdue , and I hope that it will be warmly welcome by people in my constituency and across the country . the Government deserve credit for swiftly scrap the disgusting , immoral and illegal Rwanda plan , but we need to scrap the attitude that underpin it too . the demonising of vulnerable people and of anyone who be different — pander to the nasty , dog - whistling of Reform and the Tories — be divisive and dangerous . it be shocking , then , to witness the Government try to mimic the Tories and Reform with migrant raid video and advert boast about deportation . do they not understand that that just serve to reinforce Reform ' s scapegoate rhetoric ? let we not forget that last summer we see mob , drive by hate , try to burn refugee alive in hotel . the Government should be challenge those narrative head - on and help community to heal from division , not publish video that risk encourage further animosity towards migrant and anyone perceive as be one . let I turn to the Bill . I share the Refugee Council ' s concern about the potential for clause 13 to 16 and 18 to lead to the unintentional criminalisation of refugee who be force to make decision under coercion when their survival be at stake — by be force to steer a small boat under threat of death , for example . although I be pleased to see the repeal of child detention power , 1 , 300 child be wrongly assess to be adult over an 18 - month period , so how do the Government plan to address that ? I welcome the repeal of much of the Illegal Migration Act 2024 , but I be concerned that some aspect that should have be scrap will remain , include , for example , the automatic inadmissibility of asylum and human right claim from certain country , which be particularly dangerous for LGBTQ + asylum seeker . let I come to my central point . focus solely on enforcement simply be not save life . the number of death in the channel remain horrify . enforcement against criminal gang be of course need , but that be not go to work on its own when refugee have no other choice . instead , if people have a choice not to go with gang , not to put their child in a deathly dinghy and not to risk their life , the gang lose their power . I hope that minister have see the report on safe route publish by the APPG on refugee , of which I be a member . it contain three recommendation , all of which be already try and test in other country and should , in my view , be totally uncontroversial . first , we must urgently fix family reunion . refugee child be be intentionally keep apart from their parent by the UK ' s asylum law . that be unconscionably cruel . we must move in line with the majority of european nation by bring parent and child together , which would likely reduce the number of parent make dangerous journey across the channel to be reunite with their child . secondly , Ministers must improve the UK resettlement scheme , which have a lot of potential but have consistently fail to help enough people — only 435 people be resettle last year . my inbox — like those of many member , I be sure — be full of heartbreaking plea from people catch up in delay and huge backlog , and that step could help to fix the system . thirdly , I would like the Government to pilot a humanitarian visa , to provide a safe option for refugee with strong asylum claim to travel here and make their claim . it be base on successful scheme in the US and Switzerland that have help to reduce people smuggling . in conclusion , bit of the Bill be important and hugely welcome , but let we be clear : scrap something illegal , immoral and unworkable be the bare minimum , and now we need Ministers to build something well that help this country to rise above the far - right narrative that demonise all migrant . before I end my remark , I invite everyone in the Chamber to join I in a very short thought experiment . " the political environment in your home country have become extremely dangerous for anyone with your political view . People in your movement have be murder . last month , your child get follow home by an unmarked car , and you have receive threaten call . you have a family member in the UK who successfully claim asylum a few year ago and be very worried about you . he implore you to join he . your option be to stay in your home country , risk be murder and leave your child orphan , or to flee to the UK . " who among we could say with 100 % certainty that we would stay ? I will abstain on Second Reading , because although I support the scrapping of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act and the Illegal Migration Act , if the Government truly want to modernise the asylum system , they must be honest about the need for safe route and respect for human right . the Bill , which have be welcome by the National Crime Agency and the new Border Security Commander , deliver the measure require to tackle smuggling gang , prevent people from get into unsafe boat , and improve our border security . it be about give our law enforcement agency the tool they need to tackle what have be describe as " industrialised " smuggling network . let we make no mistake , under the previous Government the gang be allow to get away with it . instead of sit down with law enforcement agency and do the hard but necessary work to strengthen our border and disrupt that activity , the Tory Government focus on their shambolic Rwanda gimmick . shamefully , as those gang develop and strengthen their process , Tory Ministers be sign £ 700 million cheque as part of their Rwanda plan — an unforgiveable amount of money to move just four volunteer . not only be that a colossal waste of public fund , but all the while , the lack of focus on disrupt the criminal activity perpetrate by the gang be lead to more dangerous crossing , with a real human cost for often very vulnerable people . the Bill put the Border Security Commander on a statutory footing . have one person lead a unit with responsibility for co - ordinate the UK ' s response to our border security challenge be vital . the Bill set out the framework for how that leadership role will operate within our current policing and security landscape , and the NCA , police and immigration enforcement must all have due regard to its priority . we know that the gang be constantly look for new way to stay in business , and law enforcement in our country need to keep pace . the Bill contain new immigration offence for the supply or receipt of item that the person know or suspect will be use to facilitate illegal travel . those tough new power draw much from exist power under counter - terrorism legislation , and be accompany by power to seize mobile phone , allow for the well sharing of datum , and take biometric information . that represent a step change . it mean that those engage in people smuggling will be view as a global security threat , in the same way as terrorist . I believe that that be worth highlight . the criminal gang be put often very vulnerable people in boat that be wholly unsuitable for such a perilous crossing . it be therefore right that our law enforcement body be allow to go after those criminal with the counter - terrorism power propose in the Bill . that will transform our response . we will target the criminal , stop people embark on those dangerous journey , and keep our border more secure as a result . the strengthening of serious crime prevention order will ultimately make all our constituent safe . the new interim SCPOs will put severe restriction on people involve in organise immigration crime before they be arrest , allow we to take decisive action when we know that time be of the essence . the previous Government throw all their effort behind the unworkable Rwanda plan , but we finally have a Bill that consider the detail and provide practical measure that will make a tangible difference . that will not happen overnight — we know just how sophisticated the gang be , and how long they have be allow to thrive — but with strengthen power we will be in a far well place to tackle they head on . we be now invest in a workable system , with no gimmick and no grandstanding . instead , we be do the detail . the Bill build on what the Government have achieve so far , include a £ 150 million package for a Border Security Command , unlock new surveillance technology and fund more NCA investigator ; anti - smuggling action plan with our key ally in Italy and Germany ; increase enforce return by nearly 25 % compare with the year up to the election ; and , of course , utilise the hundred of staff who be work on the Rwanda scheme . now they be work on immigration enforcement and help to deliver bespoke charter flight , remove immigration offender to country around the world . this Bill deliver on our commitment to give our enforcement agency the power they need to protect our border and our citizen , and it have my support today . I will be vote against the Bill and in favour of the reason amendment , for the simple reason that I do not believe this Bill will do anything to smash the gang , which be what the Labour party sell to the british public . over the past 12 month and beyond , my constituent have regularly bring up immigration on the doorstep , talk about both legal and illegal immigration . they want a fair legal system that ensure that the good and the bright come to this country , as we have always want , but for they , this be really an issue of fairness . they believe that uncontrolled border be not fair , and I agree . uncontrolle border make people angry and undermine the case for take those who be most in need . over the past 14 year and beyond , we have have a great track record of take in refugee from area of conflict and other place , but by cheat the system , thousand of illegal migrant be enter the country , with the inevitable consequence that our public service be overburden . that make my constituent feel that the system be break — that it do not work for they . our school , NHS and welfare system fail to work properly because of the strain cause by illegal migration , and my constituent be right to feel a deep sense of unfairness . until they see the fundamental issue be tangibly address , which this Bill do not do , they will continue to feel that sense of unfairness . we have see this with the reopening of the asylum hotel . that be a manifesto pledge that have be break — the number of asylum hotel and the number of people in they have go up . those hotel be fund by the taxpayer , and divert money that my constituent feel could be spend on improve our public service . early , we hear the Home Secretary give no guarantee on when those asylum hotel will be clear . that will be a consistent and continuous source of consternation for many people across the country , who feel totally helpless when they see picture and video of often young man enter this country illegally and be give access to thing that my constituent work hard for and pay taxis to sustain . I firmly believe that all of we across this House want to control illegal immigration , but I fundamentally disagree that this Bill will do so . I have talk about our track record of take in refugee . we have have a consistent record for many year — we have take in refugee from Afghanistan , from Syria , and of course from Ukraine — but that track record be be constantly undermine by the dramatic increase in illegal migration , make people feel that we can not do more . my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) make an eloquent case for this be a global issue . that be often forget in the debate , whether it be due to climate change or conflict . however , the public want to see the case be make for the nation state — to know that we can control our border , and can then allow in the people who we want in the country . since the Labour party have be in government , we have see a 28 % increase in illegal migration , which will inevitably put strain on our resource . the consequence be that society become fragmented , and there be those on the far echelon of the political spectrum who take advantage of that for their own end and crowd out legitimate and reasonable debate . the Bill take away the deterrent and do not deal in any way with the need for a deterrent . as we have hear consistently from the NCA and other expert , without a deterrent , there be nothing disincentivise the gang from bring people over . we all want people who be in need to be take care of , but this Bill do not do that — there be no guarantee that it will . we have hear the Home Secretary continuously fail to provide an answer on that point . the Bill ' s weak tinker around the edge of the illegal migration system will actually strengthen the gang , because they now know that they can take advantage of that system . this House be engage in debate , but the Labour party will win this evening ' s vote — of course it will . it have get the number ; the british people place a huge amount of trust in Labour , which be now be betray , and those gang will take advantage of it . the one example I will use be that when the Rwanda scheme receive Royal Assent , we continuously hear people — and people smuggler — say that they be not go to come to the UK , and we see the number drop . they will be celebrate the fact that this Bill be go through the House . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way , because I only have five second . this Bill will weaken our border and strengthen the gang , and the Labour party really need to come up with answer to that . first , I welcome the Government ' s commitment to scrap the costly and inhumane Rwanda plan , repeal much of the previous Government ' s draconian legislation , and overturn the pause on process asylum application . they have avert a meltdown by cut the delay build in by the previous Government . the Government be also right to seek to tackle the vicious smuggling gang that prey on the most vulnerable , but how we do so be key to the success of those effort . I despair of the toxic , dehumanise political narrative around immigration over recent year , which have solve nothing and have drive division and hostility towards migrant in our community , as we see during last summer ' s racist violence . from immigration mug to Rwanda , from Reform to blue Labour , the spiral of doom on this issue continue apace . the shameless posturing of politician who wish to make their name on the back of this issue , drive division , be one of the most unedifye part of this job and this place . just last week , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) be praise Trump ' s horrific statement about ethnically cleanse Gaza of the people it belong to — a plan that will create over 1 . 6 million refugee if , God forbid , it come to fruition . I can not help but wonder how many of those freshly create refugee would be invite to build a new life in Clacton . I also worry that by focus too extensively on deterrence and enforcement , the Government will miss a vital opportunity to tackle the deep - root , systemic issue that be truly at the heart of inequality in our country . if we solve the economic issue , we will begin to heal as a nation , and the toxicity around this debate will lose its power . I have discuss migration many time with concerned constituent , and I really value those conversation , but I be tell during one such conversation that we have a shortage of housing due to immigrant and that constituent can not see a gp because of immigrant . I will repeat in this Chamber what I tell my constituent : between 1946 and 1981 , as a nation , we build 5 million council home . since 1981 , we have build 250 , 000 , and Liverpool have not build a council house for 36 year . Thatcher ' s legacy , not migration , be where the finger should point for our present - day housing crisis . speak of myth , despite the good attempt of some section of the medium to portray asylum seeker as live a life of luxury at the expense of UK taxpayer , the reality be quite different . it be often the private company , contract to run the Government ' s immigration service and house asylum seeker in awful condition , that reap the benefit . Serco ' s 2023 half - year result state that revenue have increase by 13 % , with financial statement cite that rise in profit as be partly due to " strong demand for immigration service " . the destruction of the NHS by 14 year of austerity and decade of privatisation be why people can not get a GP appointment or receive treatment in A & E . it be immigrant who help build the NHS . a man recently tell I that he be a true patriot , and that immigration be responsible for everything he be suffer economically . I reflect on those word — " true patriot " — and the narrative be spin around who be and be not worthy to live on these isle . my brother recently have our dna test , and we discover that we be 65 % irish , 25 % Scottish , 9 % Welsh and , surprisingly , 1 % Danish , but 0 % English — scouse not English , you might say . however , I be fiercely proud to come from these isle and from my great city of Liverpool , with its melting pot of culture build on immigration . that be how I define patriotism , rather than by race or religion , which be a road I fear many be take right now in a race to the bottom with Trump ' s America . to conclude , let we stop demonise those who come to the UK in search of safety , security and a well life . let we nurture humanity , not hatred , and revisit the method use to house , support and integrate migrant upon their arrival in the UK . as I have say , immigration form the very foundation of my great city , and we be all rich for it . we know that when it be manage badly , immigration can breed fear , anger and hatred , but that be not inevitable . manage well , and with the right support in place for local community and migrant , immigration can reap benefit for we all . I will watch this Bill with great interest as it progress , to see whether it deliver the fair , humane and effective immigration system this country so desperately need . this Government , with this plan , will sadly not get on top of illegal immigration . the Secretary of State make much of the fact that the Bill will introduce power that mirror counter - terror legislation " to allow law enforcement partner to disrupt , investigate and prosecute those facilitate organise immigration crime " , but law enforcement already have the ability to disrupt , investigate and prosecute . the Border Security Command and the recruitment of its commander be announce with great fanfare by the Government , but what be there to show for they ? have already remove any deterrent , the number of small boat have rise to its high level . by the end of the year , the number have rise to more than 30 , 000 arrival — now cross with impunity . the Border Security Command be due to provide and oversee a long - term vision for the border security system , but what be that vision ? within that system , the commander be responsible for set the system ' s strategic priority , but what be they ? the commander be appoint in September , and it be now February , so when will he set the Government ' s strategic priority for border security ? the default answer of the Minister for Border Security and Asylum to nearly every question be that the Border Security Command be provide " cross - system strategic leadership " to tackle organise immigration crime — because cross - system strategic leadership be the no . 1 thing that people smuggle gang fear more than anything . I ask what the Border Security Command ' s target be for reduce the number of people enter the country via small boat : " cross - system strategic leadership " . I ask what the Border Security Command ' s timeline be for reduce the number of people enter the country via small boat : " cross - system strategic leadership " . I ask what Border Security Command provide in the way of cross - system strategic leadership to Border Force , to the National Crime Agency , to immigration enforcement and to the police . the response be : " the Border Security Command be , for the first time , provide system leadership across those partner . " most importantly , several month after the Border Security Command be establish , I ask how many organised immigration crime group have be dismantle — or , to put that in term that regular viewer may find more familiar , how many gang have be smash ? the answer be that it be " collect key datum across the system … this will support the BSC ' s ability to drive cohesive delivery across the system " . so none — not a single gang have be smash . the Government have state that their new approach to border security will focus on prevent , pursue , protect and prepare . Prevent will " disincentivise migrant " , but how will this legislation do that ? currently , if anybody be wonder whether the journey to the UK will be worth the risk , the gov . uk asylum support webpage state : " you can ask for somewhere to live , a cash allowance or both as an asylum seeker … you ' ll be give somewhere to live if you need it . this could be in a flat , house , hostel or bed and breakfast … you ' ll usually get £ 49 . 18 for each person in your household . this will help you pay for thing you need like food , clothing and toiletry . it continue : " if you ' ve be refuse asylum but you ' re still eligible for support you ' ll be give : somewhere to live " and " £ 49 . 18 per person on a payment card for food , clothing and toiletry " . whether someone be eligible for asylum or not , they will likely still get a home and £ 50 a week . what deterrent be there in this legislation to mitigate those pull factor ? none . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not . the Bill repeal most of the Illegal Migration Act , remove the duty on the Home Secretary to make arrangement to remove person who enter the UK illegally to their home country or a safe third country , and allow illegal migrant to obtain british citizenship — more incentive . the Illegal Migration Act block asylum seeker from claim asylum base on their method of entry , so those who enter the country illegally via small boat be unable to claim asylum , not eligible for support and , crucially , not eligible to claim british citizenship . the Government talk tough on deportation , proudly boast that they have deport record number of migrant , but more than 80 % of those individual be voluntary return . when I ask the Home Office how much they be each award in financial incentive of up to £ 3 , 000 per person , the Minister for Border Security and Asylum could not provide that information . why do she not know ? even those who lose the game still walk away with a cash prize . with no credible deterrent since the election , we have see number rocket and migrant hotel reopen . in just three month since the election , the number of migrant in asylum hotel rise by 6 , 000 , which be roughly equivalent to the population of the third big town in my constituency . indeed , in Cambridgeshire , the hon . member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) and for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) have ask the Home Office to rethink its decision to move 146 male asylum seeker into the Dragonfly hotel in Peterborough . I imagine that be not on their bingo card for the first six month of a Labour Government . the only deterrent in the Bill appear to be five year in prison if migrant refuse to be rescue in the channel by french authority . I will be stagger if a single person be prosecute for refuse to be rescue by the French . for reference , threaten someone with a weapon carry a maximum sentence of four year ' custody in the UK , so to suggest that migrant will receive a harsh sentence for not be rescue by french authority be a nonsense . this be a terrible Bill that pay lip service to control illegal immigration by talk tough while cross its finger behind its back . we know that Government member be more comfortable signing letter to stop deportation flight than they be actually deport people , but this Bill pour fuel on the fire of illegal migration . it encourage it and facilitate it , and I would not be surprised if Lord Hermer have advise on it . the Bill make for a snappy headline , but it will not be the solution need to curtail illegal immigration . hon . member might not realise it from some of the speech that we have hear , but this Bill be actually about people — people flee war , persecution and unimaginable hardship . the repeal of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act and part of the Illegal Migration Act be welcome , because those cruel , unworkable policy undermine our international obligation and put life at risk . this Bill still fall short , however , because it retain harmful provision , such as section 59 of the Illegal Migration Act , which deem asylum claim from country such as Albania , Georgia and India inadmissible . those be not universally safe country — just ask the LGBT community in Georgia , journalist in Albania , or Kashmiris and religious minority in India . survivor of trafficking and torture from those nation seek refuge here , so deny they asylum base on nationality alone be unjust and risk return they to danger . section 29 of the Illegal Migration Act be equally appalling . it deny protection to victim of modern slavery if they have a criminal record , ignore that many be coerce into crime by trafficker . punish victim for their own exploitation be not just cruel ; it be a failure of justice . section 12 far weaken judicial scrutiny of immigration detention , let the Secretary of State determine what constitute a reasonable period . that strip away legal safeguard and allow indefinite detention by ministerial order . section 12 , 29 and 59 also risk breach the european convention on human right and should be repeal . the Bill also introduce new offence that could see refugee prosecute simply for seek safety — a deeply troubling approach . in reality , these measure will punish desperate individual rather than the smuggler who exploit they . let we be clear : no one risk their life cross the channel in a flimsy boat unless they have no other choice . Enver Solomon , chief executive of the Refugee Council , put it plainly : " criminalise man , woman and child who have flee conflict in country such as Sudan do not disrupt the smuggling gang ' business model . when a refugee be clamber into a boat with an armed criminal threaten they , they be not think about UK law but be simply try to stay alive . the most effective way to break the smuggling gang ' grip be to stop refugee from get into the boat in the first place , which mean give they a legal way to apply for asylum in the UK without cross the Channel . " yet this Bill fail to do that . the Bill continue to treat desperate people as criminal rather than address the reason that they be force into dangerous crossing in the first place , and it fuel toxic rhetoric that breed hate and division . we have all see the consequence of that : asylum hotel name by mp in this Chamber have be target by far - right rioter who set they alight . I have say it before and I will say it again : the enemy of the work class travel by private jet , not migrant dinghy . when politician and the right - wing press deliberately stoke anti - migrant sentiment , they distract we from the real issue : a system that prioritise profit over people , that slash our public service , that give tax break to the wealthy and that allow inequality to flourish . this Bill could have end the hostile environment , but it double down on the same fail policy by criminalise refugee , deny protection to survivor and fail to provide safe route . as an MP represent Coventry , a proud city of sanctuary enrich by generation of immigration , I demand well . we need a system that uphold human right and international law and be build on fairness , compassion and humanity , not more failed , punitive policy . we need safe , legal route for asylum seeker , family reunification and protection for traffic survivor . this Bill , however , entrench injustice instead of end it . the Home Secretary ask early why we oppose this Bill . the answer be that it weaken the law and it allow illegal immigrant to claim asylum , live off benefit and become british citizen . it hinder enforcement by stop scientific age check for illegal immigrant and it allow the court to far restrict immigration detention . no wonder the Home Secretary be yet again unable to say which metric we should use , and when , to judge whether she have succeed in " smash the gang " . once more she reveal her party ' s true self by argue that the problem with the crossing be not the crime of illegal immigration , but the risk to the illegal immigrant . much of this Bill be fanciful . new offence for facilitate the channel crossing apply in other jurisdiction . the idea that the state , even work with other country , might identify , arrest and extradite the criminal involve , when it fail to prosecute elementary immigration crime commit on british soil , seem far - fetched . some measure be pathetically weak . for example , the Bill require the Border Security Commander to produce a " strategic priority document " , to which partner agency must have " regard " . even measure that supposedly toughen policy have glare loophole . the new offence of " endanger another during sea crossing " exclude the parent of child on the boat from prosecution , obviously encourage migrant to put more child on to the boat . but it be all a sham , because we know that the Government ' s real policy be to rush asylum claim through , accept the vast majority before hiding immigrant in the welfare and local authority housing budget . a Government impact assessment last July admit that in black and white , state that 44 , 000 illegal immigrant who Ministers be choose not to deport would be grant asylum instead . that cohort alone will cost the taxpayer up to £ 18 billion over their lifetime . so opaque be the Home Office about the true cost of its policy choice that the UK Statistics Authority rebuke it , in a letter to I , for be insufficiently transparent . that should prompt an urgent question about what we be go to do with the huge number of low - skilled and high - cost immigrant who have come to Britain in recent year . accord to the Centre for Policy Studies , more than 2 million visa have recently be issue to immigrant who could soon get indefinite leave to remain . that give they the right to live in Britain indefinitely , and grant they access to the NHS , social housing and benefit . even cautious estimate suggest that the net lifetime fiscal cost to the taxpayer could reach £ 234 billion . that bring I to my final point : those immigrant who enter the country illegally should never be allow to stay here , and those who come here legally on time - limit visa and have not contribute enough should be expect to leave . my right hon . friend the Leader of the opposition be right to say that ILR should be conditional on someone ' s respect for the law and their contribution to our economy . that would go some way to make up for the failure of immigration policy in the recent past , and it would mean a different system , in which we think of immigration as a temporary stay , not a permanent right . it would increase the outflow of migrant as we also control the inflow , and ensure that both the law and the state be in a condition to deliver that policy . civilisation that be unable to control their border die , and our be no exception . the future of immigration policy must be not just about who come here , but about who we decide must leave . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and the support provide to my office by the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy project . I commend those on the Government Front Bench for their work on the Bill , which will give law enforcement agency the power that my constituent in Folkestone and Hythe expect they to have to tackle the smuggling network . it be a lamentable failure of government that the conservative party prefer gimmick to practical , workable solution to take down those gang . the only winner in this multimillion - pound industry , which burgeon under the previous Government , be organise criminal who exploit the desperation of other and force many to work in criminal enterprise in the UK . in my 18 year as a lawyer , I work with many victim of modern slavery and see how organised criminal use brutal , dehumanising tactic to destroy the will and dignity of their victim . instead of address that complex issue , the conservative party waste £ 700 million on an expensive Rwanda gimmick and create a massive asylum backlog , all while stoke division and disregard the rule of law . I be pleased to see this Government draw a line under that by take a different approach and repeal the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 and most of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . I be pleased that their answer to these problem take the common - sense approach of tackle organise crime with strong law enforcement tool . I wish to use my remain time to make two point about something that the Bill leave in and something that it leave out . first , I thank the Minister for repeal the bad aspect of the Tories ' Illegal Migration Act when it come to modern slavery , but do we really need to keep the uncommenced provision in section 29 , which would block modern slavery protection on public order ground , and could well undermine our effort to combat trafficking ? section 29 would deprive police of the vital intelligence need to imprison trafficker , who intimidate victim into silence by convince they that they will be harm if they speak out . victim need to trust that their come forward will lead to protection , not punishment , but under section 29 , anyone arrive in a small boat could be prosecute for enter without a visa , and exclude from traffic protection as a result . victim be likely to think , " what ' s the point in go to the police and make myself a target , when the police win ' t protect I anyway ? " that would support the trafficker ' business model and violate our international obligation . when the Bill reach Committee , will the Government reconsider the need for section 29 , together with section 63 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 ? secondly , the Bill tackle the criminal group that drive small boat crossing , but it do not address the other dimension of the problem : the lack of avenue through which to seek asylum without make those dangerous crossing . the Home Secretary rightly say that the Bill be focus on the gang , but pre - arrival processing be an important outstanding issue . we have scheme for Ukraine , Afghanistan and Hong Kong , and we should be think about increase the resettlement of refugee who have already be recognise abroad , for example through the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . will the Minister commit to look seriously at a pilot system for those from specific conflict zone who have strong claim to be allow to travel here so that their claim can be fully examine on UK soil ? that would build an evidence base on the issue to inform future policy and lawmaking . I echo the remark of my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) on section 59 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and the safe country list . the Bill be a long overdue step towards fix the foundation of our asylum system so that it be a fair , managed and compassionate system that the public can once more have confidence in . it pursue practical , workable solution , rather than the gimmick and divisiveness of the other party , which I be proud that this Government reject . my constituent do not object to immigration per se , and it be a myth that people who vote for Brexit do so purely on the basis of racism — far from it . People across my constituency want a fair immigration system , in which people stand in turn and come to this country fairly . where the system have fall down , and we now see ever increase number of people choose to come here illegally across the channel , we must have a deterrent to deal with the issue . without that , we will continue to see and feel the effect of too many people come into our country illegally . my constituent be clear that the way to smash the people smuggler be to have a strong deterrent . look at Australia : when illegal migration first emerge as a major problem in 2001 , the Howard Government take swift action to break the smuggler by have a deportation strategy . that policy be of course dismantle by the incoming Labour Government in 2007 , yet the same Government be force to reintroduce the Howard Government policy after five year of ever increase number make their way to Australia through people smuggler who see the elephant in the room — an immigration policy that have no deterrent . that be exactly what we have here in this country : an inadequate measure to deal with a major issue . illegal crossing be up 30 % since the general election . we need to see action , and now , not just tinker around the edge of legislation . we need to see deterrent in place and work . currently , there be no deterrent to stop the boat . turn specifically to the Bill , it repeal the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . much have be say about these two piece of legislation , but what I see in front of I in this Bill amount to sheer madness . it mean that asylum seeker can refuse to take a scientific age assessment and consequently no long be treat as over 18 . how on earth do the Government plan to identify adult pretend to be child if they legislate to allow they not to have to take a scientific age assessment ? that surely act as a further tool in the armoury of the people smuggler , who I be sure be already pore over this legislation and identify the loophole . what do it mean for the safeguarding of those in our country who be task with deal with these individual ? as it stand , the Bill would enable an unintended consequence around refuse a rescue , whereby someone on a small boat can claim they be a parent with a child and can therefore refuse rescue by french authority , refuse return to France and continue to the UK . we need an understanding and a plan for what to do with someone who can not be return . we need third - party agreement , which be vital . that be why we put the Rwanda scheme and the Albania scheme in place . guess what ? it work . it be a route of return and a deterrent . those come illegally to the UK from Albania know that they will be return . disappointingly , the minute that this Labour Government come to power and signal their intention to scrap the deterrent within our immigration policy , the number of channel crossing once again start to rise — 30 % in seven month . I accept that as a Government we have far more to do , and our loss of trust with the british people be not least on this issue , but this Bill and this Government ' s repealing of the Rwanda legislation will do nothing to improve the trust of this House and the british people and do nothing to make they believe their border be safe . all it do be tinker at the edge . our constituent want to see action , not just word . in all honesty , I can not see anything in this Bill that get to the heart of the problem , which have to be to smash the gang . what be bad , I be leave fear that this propose legislation simply give a green light to the people smuggler that this country have open border without any form of deterrent . for that reason alone , I can not support this legislation . as other have speak about the specific measure in this Bill , I will take a step back and talk about the idea that underpin it . there have be grumbling tonight that we be ape Conservative Members and that we be be ask to pretend , to delude ourselves and to dupe the public somehow into thinking that we support strong and control border as a precondition for manage migration . I support this Bill , but I be do no such thing . for one thing , we have no need to ape Conservative Members . their continued smug self - satisfaction smack of their refusal to reckon with the magnitude of their failure , include to secure our border . we also have no need to emulate the tub - thump , nhs - destroy five musketeer who seem to be enjoy fly around the world , rake in cash and occasionally represent their constituent . only one of they have bother to show up tonight . we should worry less about those people and more about the force of our own argument — the argument of those who believe in progress and fairness , and who seek to represent the interest of work people in this country . so often I have be tell by people who live in wealthy , educate , cosmopolitan city that support for strong border and for the right of a public to choose who join its rank be an unenviable moral compromise . they say that open border be the natural state of thing , and the use of force to control they be a regrettable , if sometimes necessary , feature of the modern world . those who think that do not understand the history of our democracy . I hope the House will forgive a short detour . in the first great democracy in history — ancient Athens — about half the resident be migrant , or metic . metic be subject to different rule ; who join the city be control and the bar be set high for who could become a citizen and vote . if metic break athenian law , they be expel from the city , and sometimes thrust into the blaze greek sun . it be a fundamental principle of democracy that people who govern themselves control who they be and who become a member of the demos , but in recent decade , some in this country seem to have forget that principle . for instance , I be enormously frustrate by the remain campaign ' s failure to acknowledge that the EU alter that fundamental principle . we might argue that control be worth give up for some other reason , such as economic growth or reduce red tape , but without acknowledge that it be give up , we lack the credibility to make the argument . this be something that my constituent understand perfectly well : control over who join our self - govern nation be not a moral compromise ; it be the heart of what make we a free people and a strong democracy . the upshot be simple : control over the border of this country be a precondition for a serious moral debate about who we should allow to join , on what term and for what reason . unless elect government can demonstrate to their people that they have control over admission , we can not seriously debate the trade - off in who we admit and why . the public rightly judge my party to have lose credibility on this issue in recent decade . in 2004 , we choose not to put the brake on and open our labour market to new EU member . at time , we openly mock those concerned about migration , but we be not that party any more . I be not elect to this Chamber to espouse those view ; in fact , I promise hundred of my constituent that I would not rest until we grip our border , restore control , and yes , as the Home Secretary say , bring down the number of legal migrant enter this country each year — and I mean it . for I , this be not a regrettable moral compromise — a pact with the devil in which we hold our nose and ape Conservative Members to win vote — it be about a deep belief in what it mean for our country to be strong , and our democracy respect . elect politician do not just follow the poll ; they explain and defend their conviction , and our be these : the Labour party exist to represent work people . we seek to win power and use it to represent people outside the establishment who do not usually sit in the room where decision be make . at the heart of that be the simple idea that elect people like I should take responsibility for decide who get to join our country . Parliament control our border , not Brussels or , after this Bill , smuggler gang . we in the Labour party believe in control and order . the opposition do not . I welcome the Bill unequivocally . those who abuse vulnerable people to threaten the order of our border should be treat like terrorist , and I be glad that under this government they will be . in do so , we be not ape anyone ; we be do what Labour exist to do : take back control to represent the work people of this great country . we will go down to a four - minute time limit after the next speaker . in the summer of 2001 , on a University of Southampton history field trip to the east end of London — part of the course " the making of Englishness " on change notion of british and english national identity in relation to issue of race , ethnicity and immigration from 1840 to the present day — Professor Tony Kushner , who still teach the course now , take we to a building on the corner of Brick Lane . that building be once a Huguenot chapel , then a jewish synagogue , and be today a muslim mosque . that visit change my understanding and perception of how immigration have impact our country , and of the place of refuge that we have be over the century . immigration to the UK be not a new thing , and issue with asylum and illegal immigration be also not new . two year later , I do a stint in the European Parliament work for an MEP , and I spend some time research the different asylum system across the member state in response to the issue that we be face under the previous Labour Government . why be that ? because the number of immigrant have shoot up , casework have roll in , and it become obvious that then , as now , we be the final destination for a huge number of illegal immigrant . fast forward 20 year and I find myself the Cabinet member responsible for refugee in Plymouth . I see at first hand the exceptional record of the previous Conservative Government in provide for those arrive legitimately as part of resettlement scheme in response to crisis in Hong Kong , Ukraine and Afghanistan , and the integration and engagement that take place as more than half a million migrant and refugee settle here , facilitate by many , include my South West Devon constituent . I also see the impact on local service , housing , health and school : the cost of even legitimate immigration . we all agree that we must tackle the number arrive in this country illegally so that we can well serve those who arrive legitimately — those claim asylum through legitimate channel and not arrive here in small boat have pass through safe country after safe country . we must tackle those who ignore international asylum rule , design so that the burden of those flee conflict , famine and persecution be share equally among those nation that have a moral duty to offer refuge . the number of those arrive illegally will , however , keep increase unless we have a deterrent . that be why the Bill be so counterproductive . by remove not only the deterrence put in place by the last Conservative Government but repeal most of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , the new Labour Government be , in effect , remove any deterrent while also increase the incentive for get here illegally : the promise of claim asylum regardless of whether someone arrive legally or illegally , and the promise of british citizenship . talk about an open door policy . since the new Labour Government take office , so many debate involve highlight the unintended consequence of their legislation . in this case , the unintended consequence be bind to be increase number of those likely to try to get to our shore — the complete opposite of what they want to achieve — and with that , a huge knock - on impact on housing , school , healthcare and public service in general , all because the Government be naive enough to believe that a so - call Border Security Commander will solve the problem . tackle illegal gang be a noble aim , but the last time I check , illegal gang do not tend to identify themselves easily . all the while , the number arrive in this country will only keep increase . without be defeatist , we struggle to tackle knife crime and drug gang here on our own street . I remain unconvinced , therefore , that we can tackle the tsunami of illegal boat crossing , which be already up a quarter on previous figure since this new Labour Government arrive , by simply tackle the black market that be drive illegal immigration . by all mean tackle the gang , but to rely on that with no deterrent and , instead , effectively reward those who make it here illegally , be doom to fail . it reduce the value of do the right thing and arrive here legally , and be a roll of the dice that be certain to fail before it have even start . before I get to my main speech , I will say a few word on my position on migration . when I be grow up , my dad , who be a bricklayer , have to go and work in Germany because it be so hard to get good - pay work in Burnley , where I be from . a bit like " Auf Wiedersehen , Pet " , he and load of mate go over to Germany to help with reunification when the Berlin wall be take down . he be able to earn the wage that help my parent put a roof over my head and food in my belly . migration be not a threat . it be part of our national story and of the very fabric of who we be as a country , and it contribute to our economy , public service , business and community . what we can not allow , and should never tolerate , be unchecked illegal immigration , lead by bad faith actor who seek to undermine our border security and , in do so , put life at risk . for too long , ruthless gang have exploit vulnerable people by charge they thousand of pound to make dangerous journey in overcrowded , flimsy boat . these journey be not only illegal but often deadly , lead to tragic and unnecessary loss of life . we can not in good conscience stand by while human life be treat as commodity and our border be compromise by those who profit from human misery . right now , the system be completely overwhelmed , with unworkable policy create backlog and put impossible pressure on housing and public service . I , too , be a councillor , and I remember the pressure on local service . this be not about turn our back on those in need . it be about create an orderly , compassionate and secure system that work for everyone . it be about restore public confidence and ensure that our border be protect without compromise our value . the Bill fix what be not work , ensure that we have a fair but firm asylum process that prioritise genuine refugee while stop the current abuse of the system . I strongly support the Bill , and I encourage colleague across the House to vote for it . let we send a clear message : we be a nation of compassion and of fairness , but also one of law , order and border security . we must bring migration number down . they have simply be far too high for far too long . my constituent say that to I loud and clear , and I completely agree with they . unfortunately , despite the Home Secretary ' s word , I be not convince that the Bill will go far enough . the Government have ignore the National Crime Agency , which have state that a deterrent be essential to prevent small boat crossing . they be now repeal the legal basis of the deterrent that the last Government introduce , ignore the fact that there have be a 30 % rise in small boat crossing since they take office . the Government be ignore their own Back Benchers , who just last week be call for a strong stance on immigration , by repeal the law introduce by the previous Government to toughen up the system . the Illegal Migration Act 2023 place a duty on the Secretary of State to remove illegal migrant to their home country or a safe third country and ensure that those enter this country illegally would never be eligible for british citizenship . no ifs , no but : someone enter the UK illegally should never be able to claim citizenship . british citizenship be a privilege , not a right . what message do repeal those measure send to our constituent or those consider the dangerous crossing ? frankly , it show that if someone manage to get to the UK illegally , this Labour Government will let they stay for good . I fully support what the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) have set out this afternoon and support the conservative amendment . citizenship and permanent residency should not be hand out freely . the ability to access that status should be heavily restrict . it must not be available to those who have a criminal record , have claim benefit or have access social housing . we must be clear that individual who enter the country illegally should never be grant indefinite leave to remain or citizenship , and I be disappointed that the Bill do the exact opposite . clause 1 to 12 provide a framework to enable Border Security Command to fulfil its role as an effective border security system and set out that the commander must minimise threat to our border security . the commander have be in place since September — what have this new organisation be do in that time ? it certainly have not tackle the threat to our border security ; as I have say , small boat crossing be up by 30 % since July . my constituent want to see immigration , both legal and illegal , under control . as their MP , I will vote for measure that reduce net migration number to avoid the situation recently forecast by the Office for National Statistics . this Bill fail to do that . I be pleased we be have this debate today , as the measure propose in the Bill be long , long overdue . anyone can see that confidence in the immigration and border security system break down under the previous Government , when hundred of million of pound of taxpayer ' money be waste on hare - brain scheme , ten of thousand be cross the channel every year , and 69 people die in the water off our shore while try to cross the channel last year . we do not need more gimmick and headline grab ; instead , we need serious measure and hard graft . there be three key component to the Bill that I think will have the most impact . the first be the counter - terror - style power on immigration enforcement . these important measure will make immigration enforcement properly intelligence - lead . there be no point in arrest someone when they step off the boat if we do not disrupt the network that funnel they to the shore in the first place . the new power on seize electronic device , biometric testing and intelligence gathering and the serious crime prevention order be exactly what be need . for four year before I be elect I serve as the justice and home affair attach é at the british embassy in Paris , where I see at first hand the kind of intervention that make a difference in secure the channel border . these measure be exactly what we need . we be talk about large , well - fund organised crime network , and we need to treat they as such . secondly , I strongly welcome the new offence of endanger a life at sea . we have to change the risk calculation of the people get on those boat , which the Rwanda plan clearly fail to do . it should shame we all that we have somehow contrive a situation where innocent people drown off our shore , and it be right that we treat the people who endanger their life like terrorist . finally , I can not welcome enough the emphasis on work with other country . immigration be , by its very definition , a cross - border phenomenon , so immigration crime be a cross - border crime . country such as France , Germany and the rest of the Calais group will be central to help Britain tackle our challenge , and intelligence sharing , access to database and joint operation be the bread and butter of fix immigration challenge . immigration be obviously a challenging topic politically , but as with the economy and public service , public trust be conditional on the Government have a firm grip on the immigration system . folk understand that we live in a complex world and that people cross border . they want to be compassionate to save those flee for their life . they do not want to see people drown . Most of all , they want to see the system manage . it have to be firm and fair — it have to be both . the measure in the Bill should have be on the statute book long ago . rather than just stand on our shore and shout , we be see the Government get down to do the hard graft of what it take to secure our border . there but for the grace of God go I . like everyone in this House , I appreciate the need for security at our border and the need for a sensible discourse around immigration , but we must be very careful and mindful of our approach , rhetoric and implementation . our approach must always be guide by compassion , legality and an unwavering commitment to human right . I appreciate that the Bill seek to confront the increasingly sophisticated method use by organise crime group to facilitate irregular migration . however , global instability , be they conflict or the devastating impact of climate change , force desperate people to risk everything in search of security . since August 2019 , 138 people , include many child , have tragically lose their life . they be not migrant who drown ; they be not asylum seeker who drown . they be human being . these loss be a stark reminder that people do not take such risk unless they be flee unimaginable atrocity . in our pursuit of security , we must take care not to conflate genuine asylum seeker with criminal or opportunist . our language and policy must not inflame hatred or prejudice against those seek sanctuary . in address irregular immigration , the Government have propose the follow four pillar : prevent , by disincentivise migrant ; pursue , by disrupt the operation of organise crime gang ; protect ; and prepare . I would like the Government to add one more : participate , to meaningfully resolve global conflict and address the root cause of migration , such as climate change , famine , conflict and human right violation . we must increase our spending on overseas aid back up to 0 . 7 % of gdp . by take a proactive international role , we can help to create condition that reduce the pressure drive desperate migration . we must not view this entire process through the prism of criminality . particularly alarming be clause 18 , which create the criminal offence of " endanger another during sea crossing " . this clause be aim clearly at those inside the boat — the very individual flee peril — and represent a dangerous escalation in the criminalisation power under the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 . such measure risk penalise vulnerable people who be already catch in the midst of conflict , deprivation and despair . worryingly , accord to the european convention on human right memorandum , " although it be very unlikely , there be no absolute bar to prosecute parent who have take their child on journey which come within the ambit of the Endangerment Offence , which could result in the break - up of family . " furthermore , we must ask why the Bill exclude country such as India , Albania and Georgia from its protection . genuine survivor of torture , trafficking and persecution from those nation deserve our help , not our suspicion . the retention of section 59 and 29 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 would restrict or even criminalise asylum and human right claim from those very country . I call on the Government to address these press question . how will we ensure that our measure do not criminalise those seek asylum ? why be we exclude country like those mention above ? what step will be take to increase international aid ? the Bill be a miss opportunity to demonstrate the Government ' s state commitment to human right and the rule of law , and to " modernise the asylum and immigration system " — [ Official Report , 17 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 40 . ] we all welcome the repeal of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 , but I look forward to see some meaningful amendment in Committee . let I start by correct some misinformation that have be share throughout the debate by Opposition Members — unintentionally , I be sure . those who speak about illegal immigrant , or people seek asylum illegally , should bear in mind that everyone , under international law , have a right to seek asylum from persecution . that be enshrine in international law . there be also the right not to be penalise for enter the country without permission when it be necessary to seek asylum . those who use the word " illegal " should remember that it be only illegal because the last Government make it so , just as Rwanda be only consider safe because the last Government legislate to make it safe . the vast majority of people need to cross the channel by irregular mean because there be very few safe route . the UK require they to do that , and then criminalise people who do it . the Government ' s scrapping of the Rwanda plan , and the repealing of some of the most extreme element of the Conservative Government ' s legislation , be very welcome . it be essential for this performative cruelty to be wipe from the statute book , and I congratulate my right hon . and hon . friend in the Home Office team on do so . however , I must admit that I be disappointed that many inhumane policy have be leave to stand . for example , the Home Office will still be allow to operate a two - tier asylum system : some refugee will be penalise for the route by which they arrive ; some victim of modern slavery will continue to be deny protection ; and some people ' s claim will still be automatically inadmissible on the basis that they have come from so - call safe country , a number of which be anything but safe for minority group . I be particularly worried about certain new element of the Bill . it expand offence , and give the state additional power to investigate and prosecute people . I know that the Government ' s target be the organise criminal run these operation , but I be deeply concerned about the possibility that many more people seek asylum will also be criminalise as an unintended consequence . we must ensure that people who just want to start a new life in safety after be force from their home be not punish . we need to combat the dehumanising , false narrative that desperate people flee war and persecution be criminal , and we must not treat they as such . instead , we should be properly reform our broken asylum system . an improved system should include safe and legal route , a fair and efficient decision - make process , the lifting of work restriction , the closure of all large site , and increase asylum support rate . it be appal that 138 people — 138 human being — have die attempt to cross the channel since the summer of 2019 . I have no doubt that my party be unite in want to save life , but I fear that the Bill , no matter how well - intentione its aim might be , will not succeed , and that more people will die attempt to reach our shore because it do not tackle the lack of alternative option for claim asylum , which be drive people on to those dinghy . I worry that our approach , which do not differ drastically enough from that of the last government , will continue to add to the suffering that so many people seek asylum have already experience . when sector organisation such as Asylum Matters , Asylum aid , M é decin Sans Fronti è re , the Refugee Council and Migrants ' Rights Network have express serious concern about the Bill , alarm bell should be ring . it be a truth universally acknowledge that we need to have a robust migration policy that fulfil the economic need of the UK while also protect and preserve our british way of life . although it be important that the british public hear loud and clear our acknowledgement that the last Government do not get everything right on migration number , it be equally important that recognition be give to the action that they take to start turn the tide on migration number . the change in visa rule at the end of 2023 curb some of the student visa abuse , with the result that application fall by 30 % , deliver a cut in legal migration . as for illegal migration , the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 create the foundation for a deterrent — which the National Crime Agency say be essential — that would have allow the UK to process asylum application overseas . the Illegal Migration Act 2023 would have prevent those who enter the UK illegally from claim asylum or gain citizenship . the Bill before we seek to undo so much of that good work , as the shadow Secretary of State and my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) explain . Labour will allow illegal migrant to claim asylum and have access to british citizenship , remove our third - country deterrent and make our border weak . we be already start to see the effect of Labour ' s light - touch approach to border security . since the election , we have see illegal boat crossing up and the number of migrant house in hotel , at taxpayer ' expense , up . at least the Labour party be consistent on this issue . however , it be essential that we safeguard our border , and this be not just link to migration number . under this Bill , the Government be seek to set up a Border Security Commander who , in exercise their function — which , I note , be undefined — must have regard to the objective of " maximise the effectiveness of the activity of partner authority relate to threat to border security " . one such partner authority would be Border Force , which be a law enforcement organisation whose priority in relation to channel crossing be " search and rescue and the safety of life " . however , as be flag in the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee ' s session last week , Border Force be also responsible for control of personal import and for check on illegal meat come in across the border . biosecurity threat do not respect boundary or border , but Border Force be so stretch that we be able to check only about 20 % of the meat import into the UK . I can not state clearly enough that our biosecurity be at risk , particularly give the outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Germany , and the spread of african swine fever . my concern be that the Government have create a new position without clear function in the Border Security Commander , which be a distraction from the action that be need now . overwhelmed by the number come across the channel , and without an effective deterrent , our Border Force can not manage the catastrophe in front of it . it need urgent funding , yet this Government be not address that . for all the reason that I have state , I will vote in favour of the reason amendment , as this Bill fundamentally undo the good work of the previous Conservative Government , fly in the face of common sense , and be an insult to my constituent in South Northamptonshire , who want to see strong border and a tough migration policy . I thank the Home Office team for bring forward this Bill . we all recognise in this place that , over the year , immigration have enrich our country and help we all to prosper . one only have to look at the local health and care system in and around my constituency of High Peak , where nurse and care worker from around the world be keep our NHS running . I want to put on record my thank to all those in High Peak who have make it their home and contribute so much to our community . the concern that I hear from local resident in High Peak be not about those who come here legally , play by the rule and fill vital role ; they be about those who enter the UK irregularly , mostly on small boat , who my constituent see as skip the queue . this be about fairness , the rule of law and stand up for british value . not that long ago , the last government , Boris Johnson and the now hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) promise we that leave the European Union mean that we would take back control of our border . the last Government leave we with open border and fail to create a plan to tackle illegal migration . small boat crossing reach record number and , in their last three year , the previous Government pour all their energy and resource into the shambolic , unworkable Rwanda scheme — a gimmick that see just four volunteer go to Rwanda , at a cost of £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money . that be an utterly scandalous waste of my constituent ' money , and it be anything but a deterrent . it be shocking that so much time and effort be put into a scheme that could never work and would never work . in High Peak , we see the consequence of the lack of a deterrent when the previous Government try to convert High Peak Halls in Buxton into an asylum dispersal centre , which be ultimately only stop by opposition from local police , local council and local people . by contrast , this Government be get on with the job of deliver strong border security and a fair immigration system . we be determined to decisively bring down the number of small boat crossing and end the use of asylum hotel for good . our deterrent be clear : we will process application and we will deport those that do not have the right to be here . some 19 , 000 people have be return under this government — a 24 % increase in enforce return . that be a genuine deterrent , and this Bill will go far in help to defeat the criminal gang that be make million of pound from prey on vulnerable people . all of we in this House have see the tragic loss of life in the channel , and stop the crossing be a humanitarian necessity . the Bill will help to do that by create the offence of endanger life at sea . I fully support the measure in this Bill that give the law enforcement agency the tough tool possible to break down the smuggling gang ' ability to carry out those small boat crossing . the Prime Minister be right to say that we need to view the smuggling gang as a global security threat and treat they as the terrorist that they be . the Bill will replicate the counter - terror power on issue such as electronic device at our border , and introduce new offence against gang conspire to plan crossing . as a result of this and the statutory power of the new Border Security Command , the people of High Peak can finally have faith that our law enforcement agency will have the power to stop these vile criminal . only by take these concrete step can we smash the gang and bring down the number of people who be travel to this country illegally . the Government ' s plan for change relie on strong border security , and it be critical that these step be take to ensure that those who threaten our security can be pursue relentlessly and by every mean . this Bill will start to restore fairness and balance to our immigration system and , dare I say it , take back control of our border . that be what the people of High Peak expect , and that be what this Labour Government will deliver . our country have a proud history and record of offer sanctuary to and help those in need . from the Kindertransport when we offer a home to jewish child escape nazi persecution to host Ukrainians flee President Putin ' s Russia , our country have proudly welcome people from around the world . in fact , in our very own hour of need , when our city lay in ruin after world war two , immigrant from the West Indies play a significant role in rebuild Britain , fill labour shortage in critical sector such as construction , transport and healthcare . we should never forget either the contribution that immigrant have make to our country or our responsibility as a place of refuge in the world , but today immigration be high than it be ever be , and this cause legitimate problem and concern that my constituent in Mansfield be very concerned about . let I be absolutely clear that my constituent , many of whom vote for I last year , be not racist , right wing or far right for have concern about immigration and the security of our border . they be neither racist nor far right for be worried about our NHS , about housing or about why their child can not get a place in the local school of their choice . we must never label those constituent who raise legitimate and factually sound concern as racist . what we must do as a Government be address those concern . I believe that the previous Government fail to do that , instead allow migration , both legal and illegal , to skyrocket . I be glad , therefore , that the Government be scrap the completely ineffective Rwanda scheme , which cost an eye - water £ 700 million , and that we be instead introduce measure that will deal with the problem at hand . I be particularly pleased that the Bill will target the people smuggle gang that have facilitate boat crossing of the channel . it will create a new offence of sell or handle small boat part for use in the channel , it will enable the confiscation of electronic device and the disruption of communication , and it will support the newly create Border Security Command . these responsible , realistic action show that this Government be focus on deliver result , unlike the solution offer by the Opposition . my constituent in Mansfield want to get on with thing . this Bill , along with the other legislation that the Government have introduce in their first six month to support house building and invest in our national health service and school , will go a long way towards do that . I simply wish to make one request and propose one amendment to the Bill . I have listen to the whole debate . there be more asylum seeker in hotel in my constituency than in any other constituency in the country . I have two detention centre , one of which be the last to imprison child , so I understand . I tour the hotel , and every time there be a debate like this in this place and it be report outside , I worry because it create insecurity , worry and fear among the asylum seeker in my constituency . to answer a point make early , most of the asylum seeker in hotel at the moment do come in the boat , but they come in the boat because there be no other route . it be as simple as that . I chair the Public and Commercial Services Union parliamentary group , and the PCS and the frontline Border Force staff it represent say that the way to stop the boat be to introduce a safe - passage visa system , accessible through our european centre or online . that would undercut the criminal gang ' money earn potential . when I meet asylum seeker and listen to their individual story of the suffering both in their home country and during their passage here , I rarely come away without tear in my eye . it be also rare that I do not come away impressed by the scale of their talent , and by just how much they can contribute to our economy and our society . I want the message to go out that I welcome asylum seeker — it be as simple as that . there have be a failure to address the age assessment of individual applicant . the previous Government introduce the national age assessment board , which use supposedly scientific measure to assess an applicant ' s age . as member involve in that debate will know , expert both in this place and elsewhere — Lord Winston have be mention — have contest the idea that it be a scientific approach and say it be inaccurate . it have be prove to be a failure , and where it have be use in other country , it have never be solely rely upon . what have be successful be a comprehensive evidence - take process , through a social work - type assessment of individual . since the new system be introduce , as the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) mention , there have be 1 , 300 incorrect assessment . what do that mean ? I will give one example . under the new law , 450 people have be convict of arrive on the boat . of those 450 conviction , 14 people who be imprison be later determined to be child . if a child be incorrectly assess , they be classify as an adult and be put into an adult institution , and some of those classify as adult have therefore be imprison alongside adult offender . that be not fulfil our duty to safeguard child , be it ? that be why this system need to be change . we need to reinvest the £ 1 . 7 million that have be waste on these " scientific " assessment and go back to the social assessment make by professional social work expert . at least we will then be able to live up to the expectation of safeguard young people . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in Register of Members ' Financial Interests and the support I receive from the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy project . member across the House want an immigration system that be well manage . when I speak to my constituent , they tell I that be what they want , too — grip , control and a government back in control of our border . I be so pleased that the Bill seek to provide exactly that , and not just with slogan , but with solution . I welcome the establishment of the Border Security Command and the enhanced power to tackle the criminal gang that make it possible for people to cross the channel in small boat . those gang be exploit some of the world ' s most vulnerable people , and that be unacceptable . I welcome the Bill ' s focus on unaccompanied child who enter the country in that way . it be right that we will no long detain they without time limit , and it be right that local authority will be support to make decision on their accommodation need . we must not leave those vulnerable child in hotel or in any inappropriate adult accommodation . I can not tell the House how much I welcome the repeal , in full , of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . some £ 700 million of taxpayer money be waste on a scheme that be inhumane and never go to work . there be two area of the Bill that we will need to scrutinise carefully as it move forward . first , I would like reassurance that we be able to continually review which country be safe and which be not , base on evidence . that be really important when international event can be so unpredictable and fast - paced , as we have see with the fall of Assad in Syria , for example . secondly , we have to be careful to minimise the risk of unintentionally criminalise asylum seeker — people like Ibrahima Bah , a young person from Senegal who be sentence after steer a dinghy that break apart next to a fishing vessel , under threat , he claim , of death . it be the smuggling gang we need to target , not young people who be coerce while try to survive . I know that Ministers will be look carefully at that . I turn to the international context in which we be discuss the Bill . while I welcome the Bill and I hope it reduce the number of people cross the channel in grave danger , the reality be that for as long as persecution , war and conflict exist in the world , there will always be people flee for their safety , include to the UK . with that in mind , I see a vital continue role for safe and legal way for refugee and asylum seeker to seek protection in the UK . we know that safe route can work ; I be proud of our country for the Homes for Ukraine scheme and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , for example . when such scheme operate effectively , we do not see people of those nationality get on small boat . the APPG on refugee , of which I be co - chair , last week publish an inquiry into safe route , propose further solution , such as review the financial restriction for UK - base sponsor to reunite with their child who remain in danger overseas . I hope those proposal will be consider . the benefit of option such as family reunion and humanitarian visa be that they be also control and orderly , in the same spirit as the Bill . I also see a vital role for international co - operation . I know the Home Secretary have be work with european neighbour to tackle the criminal smuggling gang , which be vital . I be pleased to see the joint action with Germany in December . I would like to see international co - operation extend to well anticipating and engage constructively in resolve the crisis that cause people to flee their home in the first place , and to provide support for people close to their home . for example , the 3 . 3 million people who have flee across a border to escape the conflict in Sudan need support in Sudan and when they flee to neighbouring country . that work have just get hard with the dramatic cut to the US international aid budget , which I fear will be deeply destabilising . ultimately , that be where the work must start to stop vulnerable people attempt to reach our own shore . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak and I look forward to support the Bill tonight . my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) take we back to ancient Athens . I be a recover classicist , so let I note that Britain have , from the time of the Romans , be a nation of immigrant . scientific analysis have prove the rich cultural diversity of Roman Britain , and immigration have enrich our country ever since , with people from the Windrush generation to , in more recent time , the Ukrainians and Hongkongers proudly make their home here in the UK . as the MP for Bracknell , a new town , I know that my constituent understand what it be to set up home in a new corner of Earth . that say , they also know that it be the first duty of any Government to protect the country , and a function and fair immigration system be the prerequisite to that . the government — any government — must have control of their border , but the sad reality be that , under the previous Government , control of our border be lose . nearly 37 , 000 people cross the channel in small boat last year . many of they be vulnerable individual , but nevertheless the sheer number of people cross demonstrate a lack of control . for the Conservative party , which fashion itself as take a tough stance on immigration — we have hear some of that in the debate — that be an embarrassing record . one need only look at the Rwanda scheme , which cost £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money and see 84 , 000 people cross the channel from the day it be announce to the day it be scrap — some deterrent . the challenge with the open - border policy of the previous Government be that it undermine the possibility of have a safe , just and effective asylum system . many people who risk their life cross the channel do so because they be seek asylum . it be proper that our country protect the right of asylum seeker , but it be also true that some of those cross the channel have no right to be here . that be why there have be a 10 % increase in return under this government , and almost 3 , 000 foreign criminal have already be remove from Britain ' s street — a 24 % increase on last year . flight to Rwanda stay on the ground ; this Government be ensure that flight to deport foreign criminal be take off . we can already see the effect on small boat arrival under this Government . when we win the election in July , arrival for 2024 be almost 6 % ahead of the record year of 2022 . in the second half of last year , we see almost 10 , 000 few arrival than in 2022 , despite have more day when the weather be favourable for crossing . the Bill will introduce landmark new measure so that we have the tool to fix the immigration system that the Tories have break — and , yes , it will act to smash the gang . there be measure to strengthen border security , strengthen the asylum and immigration system , prevent crime , and protect vulnerable asylum seeker whom the vile people smuggler would seek to exploit . that be the action that the Government be take , and that be why I support the Bill . some of we have run a real business . I have to drive truck across the channel , and I still remember the Calais - to - dover border crossing , with dog send in to sniff out human trafficking and group of man at every service station on the road to Calais . my fear that my lorry might be hijack by someone attempt to enter our country illegally very much reflect the confusion and anger express by my constituent in Bassetlaw . that be why they send I to Parliament to be their loud voice , to monitor and to push for tough action to boost border security and to sort this problem out . we now have a Border Security Commander in Martin Hewitt , who be appoint in the first day follow the general election . his job be to bring back control of our border , smash the gang and stop the flow of illegal migrant . under the previous Government , £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money be waste on the fail Rwanda scheme , 84 , 000 cross the channel in rubber dinghy , asylum decision making collapse , and the cost of asylum hotel stack up to £ 6 million a week . with this Government , we be get result : the high number of return since 2018 , with close to 19 , 000 individual have be fly out of our country ; nearly 3 , 000 foreign criminal remove ; deal around the world , include with Iraq , to break up those at the centre of the organise smuggling gang ; proper dialogue with our G7 partner as we start to work in step on this issue ; agreement with the german authority to arrest and imprison anyone catch facilitate the trafficking of illegal migrant ; and , just last month , 828 raid on business , include the nail bar and car wash where people be bring to work in slave labour condition . but we need power to take more action , and the Bill will enshrine the Border Security Command in law , enable the co - ordination of law enforcement agency with the sole focus of take back control of our border . we must make the english channel a no - go area for the criminal gang by effectively target they ; disrupt their activity through the seizure of electronic device , include mobile phone ; restrict their activity by maximise the impact of serious crime prevention order and give law enforcement the power to monitor and intervene ; and arrest and jail they , with new offence that will mean that those sell or handle small boat part for use in the channel face up to 14 year in prison . the Bill will make it a criminal offence to endanger life . my thought today be with those child too young to make a choice who be lose by drown . there can be no hiding place . where lorry driver be bring people in , there will be a new 14 - year jail term for vehicle concealment . my message to the Government be : crack on with the job , give we a running commentary of every success , publicise the return flight and the jailing of criminal , clear up the Conservatives ' mess , secure our border , close down the use of hotel and stop the small boat . I thank the Home Secretary and the Minister for Border Security and Asylum for introduce the Bill , which undo some of the harmful element of the asylum system , include the measure introduce in the Illegal Migration Act and the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act . in particular , I welcome the measure to repeal child detention power and Home Office accommodation power over unaccompanied child . from the Kindertransport to the many child we have welcome into our home from Ukraine , the great british public really care about the welfare of child come from war zone and flee persecution . we must be diligent to ensure that the Bill do not criminalise the wellbeing of child or lead to cruel measure against child flee persecution in their own country . it be the people smuggler who be put life in danger , yet they be not the people who be try to migrate here . those migrating here be escape persecution , and we must be mindful of that when we seek international and EU power to criminalise those who be actually traffic people . child be too often catch up in politic that leave they cruelly treat , such as in 2023 when the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , as Immigration Minister , order that mural of Mickey Mouse and other cartoon character design to welcome child asylum seeker to a reception centre in Dover be paint over because they send " too welcome " a message . these be child flee war and persecution . I want to draw the Minister ' s attention to my concern about the new law enforcement element of the Bill . the change include new criminal offence of supply or handle almost any item to be use in connection with illegal immigration , and of collect information to be use for arrange an unauthorised journey to the UK . I will give an example . some non - governmental organisation in border zone provide a play service to create space for refugee and asylum - seek child to process trauma , develop key skill and make positive memory in hostile environment . that can be a lifeline for child at risk across continent . it help mitigate some of the traumatic effect they experience and hope to lessen the impact of post - traumatic stress disorder . if the new law enforcement power criminalise the supply or handling of almost any item to be use in connection with illegal immigration do not include exemption for toy or other item use for play , be we penalise child ' s ability to play or enjoy a toy that bring they solace in the chaos of their flee journey ? we must ensure that child and aid worker be not penalise under the Bill for supply toy or item that bring solace to child . to reassure my hon . friend , these item certainly will not include child ' s toy , and nor will we be do anything to introduce widespread power that just apply to everybody . these be intelligence - lead power that will focus on those in the gang do the organising . I thank the Minister for that reassurance . as the Bill progress to Committee , it would be helpful if those item be list among the relevant article to give some solace to the NGOs , which have point out their concern to I . that would be an easy thing to add to the list already in the Bill . to conclude , I welcome this significant step forward for child ' s right . I look forward to further stride during the Bill ' s passage to find way of bring unaccompanied child and family reunion into the migration system once again . Britain have a long and proud tradition of provide asylum to those flee war and persecution , and that patriotic principle must always remain . however , we must be honest : too many people be arrive in our country with no legal right to be here , and they must be return . far still , they must be prevent from enter our country altogether . the number be too high ; they must come down . the alternative be unacceptable . town such as Hartlepool be target by private provider of asylum accommodation because of our low housing cost . those provider be profit from this crisis and put a burden on Hartlepool ' s public service . local school , hospital and social service be force to absorb the consequence of a broken system — that be the reality that we face , and it must change . the Bill signal the Government ' s intention to do just that . instead of open border , we will have a Border Security Command . instead of a soft touch , we will have record deportation . instead of expensive gimmick , we will have far - reach new power that will put the boot of the state on the throat of the criminal gang whose trade , let we not forget , be the trafficking of human being . the Bill be about restore control and take decisive action to fix the system . hartlepool people be open , generous and welcoming . I have personally see their fundamental decency on display in community across our town , include at the Salaam Community Centre on Murray Street , where Nancy Pout and her amazing team take to the street after last summer ' s riot and , alongside volunteer and council worker , clean up the devastation leave by mindless thug . they symbolise fundamental Hartlepool value . those value include fairness , which be why I believe that transparency in these matter be essential . Home Office figure provide to I by the House of Commons Library show that , as of September 2024 , Hartlepool be support 50 asylum seeker per 10 , 000 people . the neighbouring , large local authority be host just seven per 10 , 000 . there be local authority up and down this county for which the figure be zero . that can not be right . after 14 year of austerity for our public service , it must not be the most deprived area of our country that carry the big burden . when the break clause in the asylum accommodation contract come up in 2026 , I urge minister to use they and spread the burden fairly as we fix the system and bring the number down . this be about take back control of our asylum and immigration system , not through slogan and broken promise , but through real enforceable action . the people of Hartlepool , and community across the UK , deserve nothing less . the conservative party have a record of failure , and now it be fail to back our measure to put thing right . on Rwanda , so much money be waste to deport so few people , and with so little remorse . imagine the howl that we would have hear if a civil servant or trade union have waste just 1 % of that sum . on the asylum backlog , the graph be like the NHS waiting list under the Conservatives : up and up it go to 166 , 261 by 2022 — an elevenfold increase on the number that they inherit . that be what happen when those who do not believe in government be the Government . while this Bill focus more on asylum , the net migration figure also illustrate that the previous Government let thing get out of control , with a 220 % increase in net migration from 244 , 000 in 2010 — then a record — to 782 , 000 in 2023 . as with policing and defence , so it be with asylum and immigration : the previous Government fail , yet conservative Members rail against we as we tackle the crisis that they bequeath we . I do not want to rehearse the excellent policy set out by Ministers and by my Labour colleague , so I will just gently ask right hon . and hon . member on the Conservative Benches to put their hand on their heart and tell we that they be proud of their record . do they think it be dignified for a great country such as our to offshore our responsibility to Rwanda , a country that they need — with an orwellian flourish — to define as safe ? hand on heart , do right hon . and hon . conservative Members think that it be in the national interest to vote against the robust , practical and principled approach in this Bill ? it be a shame that the conservative party continue to resort to false promise and populist language . we have hear that tonight , such as " surrender " , or the word of the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , who speak about the £ 49 . 18 per week that asylum seeker receive to pay for clothe and toiletry . these be human being . I be sure that the hon . Member be not suggest that a country such as ours should not be offer people the ability to clothe themselves . I be not suggest that people should not have the ability to clothe themselves ; my point be that this be advertise on the Government website , and be a pull factor . what do this Bill do to address that pull factor ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . this Bill propose numerous measure that will get tough on the evil criminal gang that be bring people here on those boat , and my hon . friend on the Labour Benches have make that point very clearly . with their hand on their heart , be right hon . and hon . member on the conservative Benches perhaps feel ashamed of flirt with the idea of derogate from our international right obligation ? in time , I believe that the public will see that — lead by a Prime Minister who have actually tackle criminal gang — the Home Secretary and her team will leave behind the failure , gimmick and populism of the past and replace they with effective action . that bring we to the Front Benchers . I call Matt Vickers . today ' s remark from Conservative Members have be clear — we understand the public ' s frustration that more have not be do to reduce these number . they be too high , and they must be lower . during the election campaign , Labour say that it want to smash the gang , but since it take power , small boat crossing have rise by 28 % . before the election , we be closing hotel , yet now 6 , 000 more people be in hotel , and the number of people arrive in small boat and be remove be down . conservative member remain deeply concerned that this Bill and the Government ' s approach would represent a backwards step . rather than utilise every power available , they be focus on tweak exist law and strip away power that be previously put in place . that be not the approach that the UK need ; rather , we need legislation and a strategy that establish power to stop illegal migration for good . I can already hear Labour Members criticise the last government . we do not deny that number be far too high — quite the opposite — but it be the last government who introduce a deterrent , one that be scrap by the Labour party immediately upon take office before it could even begin . the Leader of the opposition have be abundantly clear that despite effort make by the last government , far more need to be do to solve the problem . the problem for the Government be that , despite their complaint about their predecessor , this legislation be unlikely to provide anything like a real solution . the immigration crisis be undoubtedly one of the big challenge we face as a country , and it require bold action . if people believe that they can arrive here illegally and stay , they will continue to come in ever - increase number . the cancelling of the deterrent be an act of national self - harm . the increase in small boat arrival since the Labour party take office make that clear for the whole House to see . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way to people who have be here throughout and have contribute to the debate . some of the change in the Bill weaken rather than strengthen our ability to deal with the issue . create a route to british citizenship for those arrive here illegally — entice more people to come — can not be part of the solution . weaken our ability to scientifically verify the age of those arrive , create huge safeguarding risk in our education and care system , be also not part of the solution . the National Crime Agency , and example from government around the world , show that a deterrent must be in place , but this Bill do the opposite by remove the deterrent that be currently in law . it seem to stem from the misguided belief that arrest a small number of these heinous criminal will be enough to stop the crossing . even though we would all like that to be the case , it be a vast oversimplification . on deterrence to stop criminal , we all agree on the need to arrest the people behind these crime , which be why , in 2023 , there be 246 arrest of people smuggler and 86 arrest of small boat pilot — and I be still stunned that the Labour party oppose life sentence for people smuggler . we need measure that stop people board those boat in the first place , however , because fail to do so not only harm our country but fail those who endanger their life by make that perilous journey . where legislation increase enforcement power , enable further intervention and enhance datum availability , we will welcome it . the experience of the enforcement authority must be hear to ensure that they have the necessary power . these sensible measure should not , however , be bundle into a Bill that simultaneously weaken the Secretary of State ' s authority . the Home Secretary ' s remark fail to acknowledge the impact of the repeal . [ interruption . ] she could have commence they with the stroke of a pen . we must ask why this Bill repeal sensible provision . it be stunning that the Government would prefer to weaken their power rather than strengthen they . turn specifically to the repeal of previously pass legislation , I ask the Government what be wrong with the principle that if someone enter the UK illegally , they should never have a path to british citizenship . why remove that provision ? british citizenship be a special privilege , not something to be grant lightly . those who enter our country illegally — break our law — should not be offer a pathway to citizenship . regularly grant citizenship to such individual undermine the deterrent and send the damaging message that break the law can lead to benefit . that harm the UK and endanger those who risk their life to come here . additionally , the legislation repeal the Secretary of State ' s ability to regulate consent for scientific age assessment where there be no reasonable ground to withhold consent . that be a sensible step to prevent the abuse of the system . some may argue that the provision be unnecessary , but between 2016 and September 2022 , around 8 , 000 asylum case involve age dispute . in about half , the individual be assess to be adult . remove that power again weaken our legal infrastructure . we have also suggest significant but appropriate change to indefinite leave to remain and citizenship . why should the right to stay not be dependent on someone ' s willingness to contribute and obey the law ? last week , the Brussels correspondent for the Times report that the European Union be draft plan to overhaul the post - war refugee convention in what may be one of the most significant shift in migration policy for decade . that be a clear signal of a grow consensus across the western world that the legal structure and institution that restrict the Government from do what be good for our country , and that have be obstructive , be no long fit for purpose in tackle this significant issue . while EU country look to put together a deterrent scheme similar to the one cancel by the Government , we must ask what the Government be try to achieve with this legislation . rather than implement the significant change be seriously discuss in Europe , or those that have be effective in Australia , they be opt for limited intervention . they be focus on tweak to the system while simultaneously reduce their own power in other aspect of the legal framework . that be not the decisive leadership that we need from the Government of the United Kingdom ; it be a weak approach stem from weak leadership , and for that reason I urge the House to vote for the reason amendment . it would be far well for the Government to go away , return swiftly with the necessary legal change , and adopt an approach that genuinely deter people from come to this country illegally . I remind member that despite pledge to smash the gang , as of yesterday crossing be up by nearly 28 % . that demonstrate that , as we warn the Government , their plan be not work , and the reality be that there be no easy fix to this problem . there be significant challenge in address the issue arise from channel crossing , but we do not believe that the appropriate response be to dismantle legislation that provide the Government with power they could use for the benefit of the country . that would be capitulation , and a charter for illegal immigration . I say to the Government : bring forward a Bill that enhance the ability of enforcement agency , rather than one that strip they of their power . we need a solution that take the transformative step to reduce illegal migration significantly , and action that secure our country ' s border and stop these life - threaten crossing . it be wrong to tell the world that if someone come here illegally they can become a british citizen . I urge member to back the reason amendment . there be one iota of reality and truth in the middle of that farrago of rubbish that we have just hear from the conservative party , and I will quote it because I prick up my ear . the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) say that there be " no easy solution " to this problem . you could have fool I , Madam Deputy Speaker ! Conservative Members spend most of their last few year in office tell we that there be easy solution and pass legislation that be so unusable and useless that they never commence it , yet they now complain about our take it off the statue book . conservative Members need to explain to the people of this country why they do not want counter - terrorism - style power to deal with organised immigration , and why they be vote against sensible extension of power , which have be ask for by the National Crime Agency , our Border Security Commander and the police , to help deal with this challenge on our border . why be they against the Bill ? almost all of they be still try to claim that somehow their fantasy of the Rwanda scheme actually be a deterrent , when we know that it do not work — [ interruption . ] the shadow Home Secretary can chunter all he like , but 84 , 000 people cross the channel in small boat when the Rwanda scheme be in operation and on the statute book . conservative Members start off by say that all they have to do be talk about the Rwanda scheme and it would be a deterrent . then it be , " once we ' ve put it on the statue book it will be a deterrent " , and now all of a sudden it be , " oh well , it never work because not a plane take off . " will the Minister give way ? no . if they be so convinced that the Rwanda scheme be go to work , why do they hold a general election a week before the first plane be due to take off ? this crucial Bill will give law enforcement new power to combat threat to border security and evolve our response as those threat change . before I respond , in a slightly quieter way I hope , to some of the many excellent speech we have hear today , I remind the House of the dire legacy leave to we by the Conservatives . they leave a system in chaos , where asylum claim be hardly be process . it take some brass neck for the shadow Home Secretary to complain that the number have go up . it have go up because we start to process decision , which they have stop . [ interruption . ] yes , it have go up because we be process decision . we have a system where they do not do any processing for a year , then they wonder why there be a load of people in a backlog . we have to come into government and clean up the mess . asylum claim be hardly be process , and we be now process 11 , 000 a month . the Conservatives be down to below 2 , 000 a month . ten of thousand of people be leave in limbo . ten of thousand more be cross the channel in small boat because they be not deter by the Rwanda scheme . some 84 , 000 people cross while the Rwanda scheme be be pursue . the Conservatives pursue expensive and unworkable gimmick , spend £ 700 million to send four volunteer to Rwanda . they allow ruthless gangster to operate with impunity and make a fortune exploit desperate people . they put legislation on the statute book that be so unworkable , even they do not commence it , and now they be complain about our have to repeal it . I like a tidy statute book ; we be not go to leave the rubbish that the Conservatives put on the statute book to clutter it up . it be time to shift the dial . that be why this Bill put the Border Security Command on a legal footing , offer system leadership and co - ordination across border . the Bill introduce counter - terror - style power to disrupt and prevent organise immigration crime and the gang from profit from the exploitation and misery that they cause . it take the fight to the gang on multiple front , use every possible tool at our disposal . to give the Minister a breather and for the education of the House , can she refer to the particular clause in the Bill that give the Border Security Command any ability whatever to dictate the activity of other bit of Government to that end ? the Border Security Command co - ordinates and lead across Government ; the right hon . Gentleman will want to serve on the Committee so that we can discuss this in detail . [ interruption . ] I can tell the right hon . Gentleman — [ interruption . ] I can tell he that the Border Security Commander be already lead across Government and make a real difference in operational co - ordination , which this Bill will put on the statute book . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Cleverly , we have hear you shout enough time . the Minister will respond . we be not do line - by - line ; those on the Opposition Front Bench need to know that that happen in Committee . I have just invite the right hon . gentleman to sit on the Committee . if he look , he will see that the first part of the Bill deal entirely with the Border Security Commander and put his power on the statute book , and it make clear that he be a system leader who can co - ordinate properly across Government . the proof of the pudding will be in the eating . be it clause 3 ( 6 ) in part 1 of the Bill that list the agency that the Border Security Commander do not have authority over ? if I know the Minister ' s Bill well than she do , she should consider her position . I be too busy clean up the right hon . Gentleman ' s mess to consider my position . while we have be draft the Bill , we have be busy in other place . as we know , there be no quick and easy answer to this complex problem ; we finally hear that from the shadow Minister . we have therefore strike groundbreake new agreement with key international partner , range from the Calais group to Italy and Germany . the Home Secretary have be to Iraq to do some important work on deal with the gang . [ hon . member : " private jet ! " ] well , at least she have not take a private jet to Rwanda . we all know that only four volunteer ever go there at huge cost , but two Home Secretaries go too . certainly more Conservative Home Secretaries manage to go to Rwanda than asylum seeker ever do . we be deal with international co - operation because it be right both for return and for co - ordination to smash international smuggling gang and organise immigration crime that we work co - operatively with our colleague , not only in Europe but far afield . we have also concentrate on actually enforce the law , and illegal working visit and arrest be up 38 % since we come into government . we have ramp up return . the late figure show that 18 , 987 people with no right to be here have be deport since we come into government . there be no point in have an asylum system if we do not return those people who be find to have no right to be here . I be sure that the Minister be about to get to this , so I apologise for intervene , but as I raise in my speech , we want to be very clear about how she will measure success base on the Bill . by what metric , and by when , will we be able to judge whether the Government ' s policy have work ? there will be more than four . yes , it be certainly true that we promise to get more than four volunteer out of the country . the Bill be not about posture or pretend that there be easy answer to complex question . the Bill be not about expensive gimmick and an abject failure to deliver . the Bill be about restore order to the chaos that we inherit from the conservative party . it be about give our law enforcement authority the counter - terror - style power that they need to dismantle the organise criminal gang who be exploit desperate people . it be about enforce the law and secure our border , and I commend it to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Harriet Cross Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Brendan O ' Hara Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Keir Mather Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 115 , Noes 354 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Keir Mather Martin McCluskey Jim Allister Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright James McMurdock Lee Anderson the House divide : Ayes 333 , Noes 109 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 20 March 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( 1 ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by a Minister of the Crown , a person hold office under his Majesty or by a government department ; and ( 2 ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , broadcast that the draft Community Radio Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 10 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Public Procurement that the draft Procurement Act 2023 ( Consequential and other Amendments ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 12 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . community and Third Sector Organisations : Employment Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) before I start the debate , I would like to declare an interest : I chair the organisation in my constituency that I will be talk about , but I get absolutely no remuneration for it . it be a privilege to speak on behalf of my constituent in Erdington , whose community be fill with untapped potential . my constituency rank among the top five most deprive area in the country , with an unemployment rate of around twice the national average . sadly , we fall well below the national average for functional literacy , rank 47th low out of 533 constituency in England last year . this stark reality create major barrier for my constituent , but I be proud to say we have not stand idly by . instead , in the face of adversity , our community come together to take decisive action to shape our future . in 2020 , in response to the economic fallout from the covid pandemic , the north Birmingham economic recovery board be form . this vibrant and dynamic board be administer by the Witton Lodge Community Association , and I have have the honour of serve as its chair since March 2022 . drive by collaborative action , we be ambitious , maximise economic opportunity and support thousand of resident into training and employment . the board bring together around 25 organisation , include the local authority , the combine authority , local and national business , community group and third sector organisation , to deliver skill , training and employment opportunity to resident of north Birmingham , particularly those face the great barrier and exclusion . from the beginning , it be vital to include business and social enterprise of all size to ensure that local resident can access and benefit from significant business opportunity . I speak to the hon . Lady before the debate , and I commend her initiative . her constituent can feel immensely proud of her effort . scrabo resident ' group have do something similar in an area of disadvantage in my constituency where people do not have opportunity . the group have provide job in security and HGV drive , for example . these people previously have no job , and now they have opportunity for employment . a community initiative have make this happen . I thank the hon . gentleman for share what his constituent be do . the result speak for themselves . to date , we have secure over £ 15 million in investment , support 8 , 000 resident — two third of whom be age between 24 and 49 — and help over 1 , 000 people into work . we have enrol 1 , 500 resident in gateway course , link they to job , and support major employment with recruitment drive such as at Amazon ' s Peddimore site . but it do not stop there . Witton Lodge Community Association hold regular skill workshop and job fair in north Birmingham , such as the event at St Barnabas church in Erdington just two week ago , connect hundred of local unskilled jobseeker with more than 25 diverse employer . the board be work with company such as Halfords to develop bespoke apprenticeship package , ensure that young people and adult can access high - quality training and job opportunity . none of this would be possible without the dedication of our partner organisation like Birmingham Metropolitan college , IM Properties , Pioneer Group and Witton Lodge Community Association . I be pleased to support this debate on the voluntary sector and its role in support people into education , training and employment . we have some good example in Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove , with Youth Employment Skills , the Chell Area Family Action Group and the Coalfields Regeneration Trust all play a vital role . do my hon . friend agree that , as the Government move forward with their plan to support young people into training and on into employment , they would be wise to consider the role that the voluntary sector play in local community ? my hon . friend make a valuable point , and I absolutely agree with what he say . the commitment of the partner organisation in my constituency have be the drive force behind our share vision , and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to they . I be sure the Minister will join I as I extend my heartfelt thank . however , progress do not come without its challenge . my hon . friend have focus on the benefit of partnership . do she agree that employability partnership lead by third sector organisation have be show to be more successful than traditional approach to employability support , because they involve organisation with a wide range of expertise ? similarly , in Scotland , we have the all in partnership lead by the disability charity Enable work , for which I use to work . Fife Gingerbread in my constituency work very successfully in partnership with other organisation to deliver employability support to lone parent . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . it be so important for we to work together to get what we need for our local community . I be grateful to my hon . friend for secure this debate . small organisation can often have the big impact . Chocolate and Co . in York be take people out of the criminal justice system and people who have have a life of addiction and turn their life around with employment . however , it cost money . do my hon . friend agree that we need to see a long - term cost - benefit analysis of what these organisation can bring , to ensure they get the funding they need to transform these people ' s life ? my hon . friend raise the valuable point that we can not do anything without money , so we must ensure that the funding be there to support these organisation to deliver what we need in our local community . the challenge that we face in Erdington and north Birmingham be not unique . the UK have long grapple with the skill shortage that hold back economic growth . accord to the Department for Education , skill shortage have double between 2017 and 2022 , to more than half a million , and now account for 36 % of job vacancy . this a national crisis that demand a national response . that be why I be encourage by the Labour Government ' s announcement of Skills England last year . the initiative , which bring together stakeholder to meet the skill need of the future , be exactly the kind of bold , collective approach we need . by create a more integrated and responsive training system , Skills England will provide new opportunity for young people and support business in build a skilled workforce . in Wolverhampton , we have the wolf at work programme . it be co - ordinated by the City of Wolverhampton council , but involve partnership work with local employer and partner organisation . the programme provide one - to - one support to highly skilled professional and those with no experience at all , so that they can get job or advance their career . it also provide assistance to employer . do my hon . friend agree that we need collaborative working , with local authority involve , and with that go investment for authority as well ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need collaboration . such programme will not work if organisation work in isolation . there be always room for improvement . I firmly believe that the Government should look at the success of place - base partnership and professional support , as demonstrate by the north Birmingham economic recovery board . I urge the Minister to consider the approach as a potential model for national policy . I thank my hon . friend for bring the debate to the House . do she agree that the third sector have to be take into account when we be develop economic strategy ? for example , in Scotland , 135 , 000 people be employ in the third sector in comparison to life science , which employ only 40 , 000 people . however , life science get a lot of public sector and university funding . in my own seat , the Aberlour child ' s charity employ 94 people directly , but support a much large voluntary network . everybody hear my hon . friend ' s contribution and agree with what she say . early this year , I be delighted to welcome the Minister for Employment , my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) , to my constituency of Birmingham Erdington . during her visit , we see the impact of personalised assistance and wrap - around support . at the Witton Lodge Community Association , we hear from young people and local partner about their share experience and idea for expand opportunity . at Erdington jobcentre , we meet dedicated work coach who be help resident achieve their goal , but we also hear about the challenge . resident be wait over three year to access english language course , limit their ability to find work , while other be make two - hour journey and catch three bus for a 15 - minute appointment , only to face harsh sanction for be a few minute late , regardless of their circumstance . I thank my hon . friend for secure this really important debate . I pay tribute to our local jobcentre , particularly in North West Leicestershire , which be work tirelessly alongside local employer and the voluntary and community sector to ensure that my constituent be equip to enter the workforce . do she agree that such support deliver in partnership for our young people will help they to prepare for the world of work ? my hon . friend make a critical point . if we want to see people grow , we have to give they the support they need ; that be vital . I would not have get to Parliament without the support that I receive early in my life . these story be not unique to the Birmingham Erdington constituency . many in the Chamber will no doubt have their own story to tell from their own constituency , so I urge the Minister to consider the need for great compassion and a flexible approach to employment support . it be clear that a one - size - fit - all approach simply do not work . each community be unique and require its own tailor support . we must not let rigid structure limit the full potential of initiative that be already achieve extraordinary thing in community like mine . that be why I urge the Government to take a deep look at how the Department for Work and Pensions operate across the country . by incorporate local variable and use the expertise of the third sector , we can address the skill gap to help people into employment . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? I will absolutely give way to my lovely hon . friend . Watford Workshop in my constituency do incredible work offer employment to disabled people and those with learn disability as well as by support local business in the constituency and the wide region . do my hon . friend agree that community and third sector organisation offer particularly invaluable work to disabled people seek not just employment but focus and meaning ? my hon . friend make a valuable point . community work together with people make a difference , and as leader it be vital that we not only encourage that but press government to support we to make that happen . the work that we be do in Erdington and north Birmingham be a testament to the power of a community , with people work together , determine to make a difference . it be a reminder that politic at its core be about help each other , be there for one another and create opportunity for everyone . that be what I believe when I first become a councillor 21 year ago , and it be what I believe today as an MP . help people flourish in the world of work be not just an economic necessity but a moral imperative . it be how we build a bright future for all . I look forward to hear from the Minister about the point that I have raise . I thank and pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , who bring the debate to the House this evening . all hon . member will agree that her passion and commitment to her constituency and this subject shine through . I can only say what an absolute honour it be to visit her constituency to discuss the work of the north Birmingham economic recovery board . I will come shortly to the situation in Birmingham and the approach that my hon . Friend recommend that the Government take . I hope that her remark at the end of her speech on the purpose of politic and the role we all must play in give everybody a chance and an opportunity in our society would be support across the House , but she make the case well for that approach . and so to Birmingham . this debate be important for many reason , not least because some part of our country suffer much bad than other with poor employment outcome . the Government be commit to our ambition of move towards a goal of an 80 % employment rate , though some place in our country be already there . unfortunately , that be not the case in Birmingham where the employment rate be around just 66 % . that be not acceptable because when some part of our country fall behind economically , it be bad for those place and bad for all of we , because it mean that some people in our country can not play their full role in our economic growth . economic inactivity be also high than the average , and that be why our reform plan take a different approach . we be no long do the same thing everywhere , but try to tailor and personalise our employment support to where people be and what they need . do the Minister agree that one of the challenge with previous model of employability support be that they have not be tailor and they have not meet the need of people for sustained support in that employment ? do she agree that one of the benefit of what my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) say be that those third sector partnership , which bring together organisation with great expertise in certain area in a consortium model , provide the good opportunity for a one - stop shop for people to get the tailored support that will sustain they in employment , as well as help they find that job in the first place ? my hon . friend be right . when I be in Erdington , my Department for Work and Pensions colleague and I meet the college , Witton Lodge and other community partner . by bring those people together around a common goal , we can change the fortune of a place . as I will explain in a moment , that approach be knit into what we set out in the White Paper in November . I want to mention my DWP colleague Lucy Divers , who have work as part of the north Birmingham economic recovery board to bring DWP right to the heart of this local community approach . that be the right way to have a partnership where people can bring their different expertise to tackle the ingrained problem of economic disadvantage and unemployment . I meet colleague in Erdington , and we talk through the various challenge . I be strike by the importance of skill and the need to address the skill deficit , but we also need to ensure that young people — Birmingham be quite a young city — have access to the good possible job . I want to mention a few way in which the Government have redesign employment support to try to bring this new localise approach to enable we to work well with community and third sector partner . the last Parliament see the big increase in economic inactivity in nearly 40 year . we remain the only G7 country with a high rate of economic inactivity now than before the pandemic . we have a near - record 2 . 8 million people out of work due to long - term sickness , and , tragically , almost a million young people be not in education , employment or training and many more be stick in low - pay work . this be an absolute crisis . it be the big unemployment crisis in our generation . we know that we have to learn the lesson of the failure of the past 14 year . we can not keep go in the same direction ; we need to change course . for I , that mean localise our service , so we pay attention to the specific feature of each place that we be try to help . on localise service , other programme of year go by , such as the Work programme , have big contract package area and move towards nationalise model , and a lot of voluntary group would describe themselves as " bid candy " — they be include as subcontractor partner , but they do not have any ownership of how service be deliver on the ground . do my hon . friend agree that we need to move away from that model and towards understand what local group , which be root in their community , can do to really play their part ? it be testament to the importance of this issue , and to how strongly member feel about tackle unemployment in their constituency and work across and in partnership with community group , that so many have stay for the Adjournment in order to make detailed point , as my hon . friend have , on a matter that be the big challenge in some constituency . I thank he for bring that expertise and hope that we can continue this conversation as the DWP move forward with our change programme . as I be say , the challenge be great . we need a totally different approach and much more local collaboration . that be why our " get Britain work " plan set out three major reform . the first be create a new job and career service that will test , trial and develop different way of work to get much close to community . we be already see work coach take their role out into community to connect with people where they be , use the expertise of local community group . we have also set up a number of trailblazer , include in the west midland , to collaborate with the NHS and other organisation to give young people and those who be out of work because of ill health the support they need to get back into work , develop their talent and take up the opportunity on offer . I know that we will not do that without well support for employer . that be one of the reason I be so heartened to have a conversation in Erdington about the different employer and opportunity in Birmingham and across the midland , and about ensure that the DWP play its role in serve employer well and get the good - quality role into jobcentre so that they be available to people who might otherwise be overlook . that have be a crucial part of the north Birmingham economic recovery board , about which I learn , and it be a great example of how local leader can take action , through work with employer , to get to the heart of unemployment and inequality . I will respond to one point raise by my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) about enable community group and third sector organisation to test the efficacy of their work . she come from the great social research city of York , so there be nobody well to make that point . organisation can use the DWP ' s datum lab to establish the effectiveness of their employment programme . I encourage third sector organisation , charity and beyond to work with we to get to the heart of how we can effectively support people into work and into well work . I be encourage by the collaborative approach that the Minister be describe . business and the third sector have demonstrate the power of an approach that involve just begin and focus on the person — the end user — and then iterate rapidly . that responsive , agile approach be really effective . do she agree that the Government need to adopt that approach more and more as we try to address these big challenge ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I think he have describe the approach that the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have recommend to we all : test and trialle thing quickly and review what work and what do not work , and try to respond swiftly and change quickly , rather than set out a huge great plan that take year to develop . that be an approach that the DWP be try to model now . only this morning , I be in Bolton with some work coach who have develop a jobcentre on wheel — a van that we can take out to community . they have do that pretty swiftly , and as my hon . friend have describe , they be try to work out what work on the ground there so that they can feed back to we . I will conclude now , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I fear that collectively , all of we in the Chamber could probably speak about this topic for about three hour uninterrupted . we have well not do that , but I want to finish by say how important it be that we have have this debate this evening . the " get Britain work " plan set out the requirement for all place to have such a plan for themselves , so that they can work out where their employment challenge be and work collectively to address they . everywhere in our country must have a plan for growth , and our reform nationally be in the spirit of the local action that we have see in the north Birmingham area . economic growth need we all to pull together , and we know that when we do so , the benefit will be widely spread . question put and agree to . House adjourn .