Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — Kinship Care if she will make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of the Government ' s kinship care policy on carer and child with protect characteristic . we comply with the public sector equality duty in consider how our policy decision impact on individual with protect characteristic , and we have comply with that obligation in draft and develop the kinship strategy . the annual survey of the Kinship charity show that the majority of kinship carer be woman , typically grandmother , many of whom be affect by the gender pay gap and a rise retirement age , yet they be often force to give up or reduce work to take on kinship care responsibility . what progress have the Minister make with the Department for Business and Trade in finally secure pay leave for kinship carer so that they be not force out of the labour force ? as the hon . Lady know , we be commit to publish the first ever strategy for kinship carer before the end of the year . she will not have long to wait . disabled People : inequality what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle inequality for disabled people . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle inequality for disabled people . in July 2021 , the Government set out our long - term vision in the national disability strategy . over the summer , we consult on the disability action plan , which will set out the immediate action that the Government be take in 2024 . together with other relevant reform be take forward by my Cabinet colleague , those measure seek to tackle inequality and improve the daily life of disabled people . the neuro drop - in centre in Lancaster provide a unique support network for those affect by neurological condition , but my constituent , who travel there by bus from Bowerham to Torrisholme , be a wheelchair user , and if there be already be a wheelchair user on the bus , he can not board . do the Minister think that that be fair ? that do not sound terribly fair at all . I be very interested in what the hon . Lady share with the House . of course , we have a Transport Minister answer question today , so I be very happy for we to look at that issue for she . if she write to I , I will see that the matter be look at . Sense have find that , because of the Tory cost of living crisis , a large proportion of disabled people will not be see family , buy present or even celebrate Christmas this year , yet the Government be plough ahead with change that will ramp up sanction and that could remove NHS prescription and access to legal aid for disabled people . why , at every single opportunity , do the Government hit people with disability the hard ? I apologise , Mr Speaker , because the Transport Minister I mention be not come today — they might be on the bus . I will pick up the issue raise by the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) in further response . the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) will know that we be make cost of living payment once again to support people in need . in fact , that support total over £ 104 billion . if she be concerned for her constituent — and rightly so — she should definitely direct they to help for Households , the benefit calculator on gov . uk , and the help to claim process . there be also the household support fund , which be about £ 1 billion this year . I hope she be satisfied that we be absolutely support the most vulnerable . I call the shadow Minister . the disability pay gap have rise under the Conservatives from 11 . 7 % in 2014 to 13 . 8 % in 2021 . labour will act to close the gap and to support disabled people by introduce disability pay gap reporting for large employer . that be good for disabled people , good for business and good for our economy , so why will the Government not follow suit ? we be absolutely committed to support disabled people . frankly , we be very proud of our record : we have support more than 1 million disabled people into work , hit the target five year early , and we be rewire our benefit system to give a renew focus on what people can do rather than what they can not , so that there be opportunity for people to improve their life and get the pay that they want through their employment . disabled people be also be hit hard by the conservative cost of living crisis that my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) refer to . on average , the extra cost of disability be equivalent to 63 % of household income before housing cost . I would ask the Minister what discussion she have have with the Minister for disabled people about this important issue , but there be no Minister for disabled people . will she tell the House when one will be appoint ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that point . as she have rightly say , we should all aim to reduce the disability employment gap , and that remain our goal . to answer her question , I be the lead on those matter for Equalities oral question . I be disappointed that I be not enough for she today , but I do lead on those matter for the Department . all Department for Work and Pensions Ministers take responsibility across our portfolio for remove barrier to progress , and update to ministerial appointment will be make under the usual process . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I reassure my hon . friend that she be more than enough for I . there be a really worrying article in the Times a few day ago that talk about the invisibility of disabled people when make employment application . we know that disabled people be less likely to be in work and to take up opportunity for entrepreneurship . perhaps my hon . friend could highlight the important work she be do as the Minister for social mobility to make sure that across Government , there be a real drive to help disabled people get the good opportunity to work . I thank my right hon . friend and other hon . member for their interest in this area . as the Minister responsible for social mobility , I be take direct leadership on access to employment , particularly in respect of application and recruitment that suit disable people to get into work , because if we do not get they into work , they can not progress . that be why we have billion of pound in our back to work plan , and why we be support vulnerable people by uprating benefit by 6 . 7 % in April equally . disability Action Plan what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the effectiveness of the disability action plan . the disability action plan ' s accessible 12 - week consultation close on 6 October . since then , official have be carefully consider all the consultation response and work closely with other Government Departments . we have lead discussion with the cross - Government ministerial disability champion before we publish the final disability action plan . some 14 million people live with a disability . they be statistically less likely to have a job or any qualification or to own their own home , and sadly , their child be twice as likely to become victim of crime . will the Minister ensure that the disability action plan address all those issue ? I thank my hon . friend for his typical care in this area . I assure he and the House that significant work be take place across Government in those area where disabled people have tell we that their outcome must be a priority , whether that be in education , employment or care . we be focus on that , and the disability action plan will complement that work . we be use the insight from the 12 - week consultation to deliver improvement in all the area that matter most to disabled people , in order to improve their daily life . some 1 . 4 million people in the UK be live with a brain injury . will the Minister make sure that the final version of the plan lay out precisely what the Government intend to do in relation to people who have have a brain injury ? the good news be that with really good neurorehabilitation , people can be give back not just their life , but a real quality of life . we owe that to they , don ' t we ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that issue . my father live with a brain injury for over 25 year , and my annual Christmas card this year come from Headway Sussex through its art therapy work , so I assure he that at the DWP , I think about the impact of brain injury on a daily basis . Gender - base violence : Hamas if she will have discussion with the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs on the Government ' s response to report of gender - base violence by Hamas since 7 October 2023 . it be crucial that the international community recognise the atrocity commit by Hamas , and that Hamas be hold to account for their barbarism . that be why we be engage with partner , include the UN , to ensure that perpetrator be hold to account for their depravity . the UK remain a global leader in eradicate sex - base violence . our prevent sexual violence in conflict initiative have £ 60 million in funding to combat conflict - relate sexual violence and ensure that survivor access redress and support . on 28 November , we announce a furth £ 33 million to support grassroots woman ' s right organisation tackle sex - base violence . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer . hostage who have be release have report Hamas atrocity , such as be subject to physical and sexual violence in captivity . the israeli health service also report that hostage have be drug to make they look happy on video . will my right hon . friend join I in condemn Hamas for do that and in demand that the International Committee of the Red Cross have access to every single one of the hostage immediately ? I share my hon . friend ' s horror . it be extremely distressing to hear all those report , and I do unequivocally condemn the sexual violence that be be report . we continue to engage regularly with partner , include the UN . I will pick up the point that he raise directly with the Foreign Office to see whether we can do what he ask . it do sound like something that need the involvement of the Red Cross , but we will make sure that we co - ordinate across Government for a dedicated response on this issue . will the UK use its seat on the UN Human Rights Council to raise the use of gender - base violence on 7 October , and to secure a clear condemnation from its member of the rape , murder and torture perpetrate against woman by Hamas on 7 October ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . yes , we will . we have raise the report of sexual violence attack on 7 October with UN Women and with the Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary - General on Sexual Violence in Conflict . I will make sure that we continue to do this and to impress upon international organisation that the whole world need to respond to this . Artificial Intelligence Biases : protect Characteristics what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential for bias in artificial intelligence technology in relation to people with protect characteristic . we be have cross - governmental discussion about AI , and we be very clear that AI system should not undermine people ' s right or discriminate unfairly . this be a key topic of discussion at the AI safety summit , and it remain a priority for the Government . Fairness be a core principle of our AI regulatory framework , and UK regulator be already take action to address AI - relate bias and discrimination . in that case , be the Minister aware of the finding of the Institute for the Future of Work that the use of artificial intelligence " present risk to equality , potentially embed bias and discrimination " , and that audit AI tool use in recruitment " be often inadequate in ensure compliance with UK Equality Law , good governance and good practice " ? what step be be take across the whole of Government to ensure that appropriate assessment be make of the equality impact of the use of AI in the workplace ? that be exactly why we have the AI safety summit , at which more than 28 country plus the EU sign up to the Bletchley declaration . in March , we publish the AI regulation White Paper , which set out our first step towards establish a regulatory framework for AI . I repeat that AI system should not undermine people ' s right or discriminate unfairly , and that be one of the core principle set out in the White Paper . I call the SNP spokesperson . the risk of perpetuate inequality and the problem that arise from solely automate decision making be well accept both in recruitment and , as we hear early , in the challenge for disabled people in access employment , but also in other context such as immigration and welfare benefit . however , the UK Government ' s Data Protection and Digital Information Bill be liberalise the use of artificial intelligence in decision making and reduce the right of people to appeal those decision . do the Minister understand that it be increasingly important to make sure that we mitigate risk such as encode bias ? what be the specific plan to do that ? I do not recognise the hon . member ' s assessment , but let I say this : context matter . the risk of bias will vary depend on the specific way in which AI be use . that be why we be let the regulator describe and illustrate what fairness mean within their sector , because they will be able to apply great context to their discussion . the risk of discrimination should be assess in context , and guidance should be issue that be specific to the sector . that be why we be prepare and publish guidance to support the regulator . we will then encourage and support they to develop joint guidance . we will be work with the Equality and Human Rights Commission , the Information Commissioner ' s Office and the Employment Agency Standards Inspectorate . Socioeconomic Equality what step the Government be take to help ensure socioeconomic equality . what step the Government be take to help ensure socioeconomic equality . the Government be commit to boost economic growth across the UK and ensure opportunity be spread as widely as possible . education be the most significant lever to create opportunity and reduce inequality , and I be pleased that conservative reform have see child in school in England excel in the 2022 PISA — programme for international student assessment — score . England significantly outperform the average , rise from 27th for mathematic in 2009 to 11th this year , and from 25th for read in 2009 to 13th this year . when it come to economic equality , physical mobility be critical . as the Minister may know , I be joint chair of the all - party parliamentary group for " leave behind " neighbourhood , and our recent report talk about how limited public transport connectivity frustrate access to education and employment . I have constituent in place such as Trimdon and Fishburn who can not get to the 10 , 000 job in Aycliffe , which be only 10 mile away . do the Minister agree it be imperative that when fund for local transport be determine , the opportunity to enhance social mobility be see as critical ? I agree with my hon . friend , who raise an important point about how connectivity create access and generate social mobility . the Department for Transport be work to put the need of current and potential user at the heart of the operation of the transport system , and Network North , our new £ 36 billion plan , will improve our country ' s transport . perhaps my hon . friend will write to I about the specific issue , because some of those duty will fall to his local council and I want to know what it be do with the money we be give it to improve access . this Conservative Government have do more for the people of Blyth Valley than any other government — [ Laughter . ] and they have bring much need investment in employment opportunity for my constituent — [ interruption . ] order . please , I can not hear the question . obviously there must have be something funny , but I didn ' t hear it . thank you , Mr Speaker . this Conservative Government have do more for the people of Blyth Valley than any other Government and have bring much need investment in employment opportunity for my constituent , follow decade of labour neglect . will my right hon . friend please assure I that continue to close the gap between the north and the south remain the Government ' s high priority ? I be delighted to assure my hon . friend of that . he be an effective advocate for his constituency , and he know that this Government have be invest in Blyth Valley . we have give an £ 18 million boost to regenerate housing , £ 1 . 5 million for new high - tech training equipment , £ 200 , 000 for extended CCTV provision , and a furth £ 20 million for our long - term plan for town . our investment in Blyth show that only the Conservatives can deliver there , and level up and close the gap be a priority for this Government . some 42 % of child in Newcastle upon Tyne Central be grow up in poverty , 17 % of household be in fuel poverty , and a fifth of adult be estimate to be in problematic debt . do the Minister agree that a Government who can not deliver economic prosperity for work people in the north - east be a Government who can not deliver on socioeconomic equality ? this government be deliver . of course we recognise that there be people who be in need , and that be why we be do everything , across all Departments , to deliver for they . for example , our support family programme have fund local area to help almost 600 , 000 family with multiple and complex need to make significant positive change to their life . the programme be work , and evaluation find that the proportion of child on the programme go into care reduce by a third and the number of adult receive custodial sentence decrease by a quarter . there be so much we can say — I know we be run out of time , Mr Speaker , so perhaps the hon . Lady would like I to write to she . one thing that can militate against socioeconomic equality , particularly for the elderly and most vulnerable , be access to care staff . the rate of remuneration be 61p per mile , go down to 25p per mile after the first 3 , 500 mile , and those figure have not be revise upwards since 2011 . it mean that wonderful people in my constituency be very often lose money travel about , and that do not do much for recruitment either . will the Minister agree to talk to the Treasury and the Scottish Government about do something about that ? I be sure that colleague in the appropriate Department will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s question and will be able to provide a more detailed response . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . in my last topical statement , I speak about the unacceptable rise in antisemitism and hostility towards the jewish community since 7 October , and I be update the House on what further action I can take to promote social cohesion . the Equality Act 2010 be a shield against discrimination , and the public sector equality duty be part of that shield . it be particularly important that all public authority take the duty seriously . to ensure that they understand how to comply with the duty , I will be publish update guidance shortly . I will then write to leader of public authority that have a key role in promote social cohesion , to show how they can foster good relation , promote equality of opportunity and eliminate unlawful discrimination . I thank the Minister for that answer . as the Women ' s Budget Group have rightly point out , woman be more reliant on benefit , due to care - give role , and they have be disproportionately impact by regressive social security change since 2010 . what consideration have the Minister give to the abolition of the poverty - induce benefit cap and the hate two - child limit , to prevent further poverty and destitution among woman and child , and will she raise that matter with her Cabinet colleague ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we disagree with the proposition that he have set out , and we have say so time and again at this Dispatch Box . we believe that the two - child policy be important . we know that there be a cost of living crisis cause by rise energy cost and the war in Ukraine , which be cause by Russia . the Government be do everything we can to limit the impact on household . a Museum of London report have bizarrely conclude that black people be more likely to die from medieval plague . will the Minister for Women and Equalities ensure that such sensationalist research finding and wake archaeology have no impact at all on current health and pandemic policy ? I do agree . I be not even sure whether we can call it just sensationalist or wake . the research apparently be base on phrenology , which be a completely discredit type of science . I agree with my hon . friend that this type of research be damaging to trust , to social cohesion and even to trust in health service . I have write to the director of the Museum of London to express my concern . I call the Opposition spokesperson . in 2020 , woman ' s life expectancy in the poor part of the UK be almost 19 year short than those in the most affluent . thirteen year ago , Labour introduce a socioeconomic duty in the Equality Act 2010 to make the NHS and other public body tackle this gap . why have Ministers fail to implement it ? the hon . Lady be right that the socioeconomic duty she reference be not commence in England . it be in Scotland , however , and the figure be bad there , which show that the duty be not the solution to the problem she raise . my North Devon constituency be in the low quartile for social mobility . what step be my right hon . friend take to improve social mobility outcome for remote , rural and coastal community ? I agree with my hon . friend that the circumstance of a person ' s birth or where they live should not be a barrier to social mobility . that be why we have establish thing such as the Social Mobility Pledge consortium with business , and 120 have sign up . there be 12 community renewal fund project serve her constituency and the wide area , and £ 1 . 2 million from the share prosperity fund to achieve those aim . the Etherton review be publish five month ago , and we be due to have a statement later today . may I seek assurance from the Minister that the Department will work with the Ministry of Defence to ensure that its recommendation be publish at pace ? I completely agree with the hon . Lady . it be a very important review , and I be glad that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister make an apology at the Dispatch Box . there will be a statement later , and I suggest that she ask the Defence Minister a question at that point . every year , 800 woman pass through immigration detention , include centre such as Yarl ' s Wood in my constituency . many of those woman have be traffic or be victim of sexual abuse . I be work with a group , Women for Refugee Women , to provide a snapshot of the background of these woman . will the Minister agree to meet we to analyse the result of their finding ? I would of course be happy to meet my hon . friend . woman who have survive trafficking or sexual abuse be detain only when the evidence of vulnerability in their individual case be outweigh by immigration removal consideration . victim of torture have their case consider by a single specialist team , autonomous of general caseworker , and victim of modern slavery undergo a need assessment to identify recovery need . Gender bias play a key role in the misdiagnosis and under - diagnosis of condition such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and autism in woman and girl . what action be the Government take to ensure that every girl with special educational need receive support from their school or college , as she be entitle to by law ? we be work with more than 42 integrate care board across the country to improve the timeline for diagnosis of autism and ADHD . some icb be do particularly well , but other need a lot more help and support . many people with impaired mobility condition depend on their car for the freedom to live the life they want to lead . will the Government therefore crack down on Labour ' s anti - car policy in local government , such as the expansion of the ultra low emission zone and low - traffic network and the building over of station car park ? this Government be clear in our condemnation of Labour ' s attack on motorist , whether it be in London or Wales . that be why , in the summer , the Prime Minister order a review of low - traffic neighbourhood , which be make some part of London inaccessible for disabled people , whether they be use public transport or car . keep Prisons Single Sex have disclose that police force be still fail to adequately record the sex of offender at birth and sometimes record self - identification . this can have a considerable effect on criminal justice datum . will the Minister take any step to ensure that the correct datum be give , so that appropriate analysis can be give and we do not have skewed information ? that be something that my Department be work on . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that we need to ensure that datum be accurate , that people understand what be be record and that this do not have an impact on how public service be deliver . if he have any further information that he would like to share , I would very much like to see if there be specific constituency circumstance we can look into . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 13 December . Mr Speaker , as this be the last Prime Minister ' s question before recess , I know that the whole House will want to join I in wish you and all the House staff a very merry Christmas and a happy new year . I know that member will also want to join I in send our warm wish to our armed force base at home and station overseas , our emergency service and all those who will be work over Christmas too . finally , I know that everyone will want to join I in wish Mark Drakeford all the good as he move on from his many , many year of devoted public service . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . may I concur with the Prime Minister ' s comment about our armed force , Christmas and Mark Drakeford ? my constituent Fred Bates be 74 , he have liver cancer and he be a victim of the contaminated blood product scandal . the Prime Minister have a chance to do right by Fred last week , but he fail to do so and lose the vote in this House . after half a century , Fred wish to know when he and fellow survivor will be compensate and get justice . this be an appalling tragedy , and my thought remain with all those concerned . I absolutely understand the strength of feeling on this . it be this Government who set up the inquiry , which I participate in , and we fully understand the need for action . the Government , crucially , have already accept the moral case for compensation and acknowledge that justice need to be deliver for the victim . my right hon . friend the Minister for the Cabinet Office will update the House on our next step on the infected blood inquiry shortly . the tax cut in the autumn statement be extremely welcome , but in order to go far and get the tax burden as low as possible , accurate and robust economic modelling be require . the Office for Budget Responsibility have be habitually wrong , and we have the spectacle last week of the head of the OBR say that his late forecast might be £ 30 billion out . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister commit to find a well system of financial modelling , so that we can get taxis low ? as my hon . friend know , the OBR have bring great transparency and independence to the forecasting on which government policy be base , but he be right . it be require to produce an assessment of the accuracy of its fiscal and economic forecast at least once a year but , crucially , as he acknowledge , thank to our management of the economy and the fact that we have halve inflation and control borrowing , we have now deliver the large tax cut in a generation , and they will benefit family up and down the country from January . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . yesterday we hear of the tragic death of a young man on the Bibby Stockholm . I know that the whole House will want to send our deep condolence to his family and friend . we must never let this happen again . I would also like to mark the retirement of my colleague and friend Mark Drakeford , the First Minister of Wales . Mark commit his life to public service and live his value every day . quietly and patiently , Mark have be a titan of Labour and Welsh politic . we thank he for his service and wish he well . Christmas be a time of peace on earth and good will to all — have anyone tell the Tory party ? well , Christmas be also a time for family , and under the Conservatives we do have a record number of they . at the beginning of the year , I set out some priority that this Government would deliver for the british people , and over the course of the year we have inflation halve , the economy grow , debt fall , action on the long waiter , the boat down by a third and , crucially , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) , tax cut come to help work family in the new year . the Prime Minister can spin it all he like , but the whole country can see that , yet again , the Tory party be in meltdown and everyone else be pay the price . he have kick the can down the road , but in the last week his mp have say of he that he be " not capable enough " , he be " inexperienced " , he be " arrogant " , and he be " a really bad politician " — [ interruption . ] government member be shout , but this be what they say . come on : who be it who say he be " a really bad politician " ? hand up . [ interruption . ] they be shout . well , what about " inexperienced " — who be that ? or — there have to be some hand for this — " he ' s get to go " ? [ interruption . ] they be shy . apparently , the Prime Minister be hold a Christmas party next week — [ interruption . ] order . it be Christmas — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] — but you might not want the Christmas present that I could give you . apparently , the Prime Minister be hold a Christmas party next week . how be the invite list look ? I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for all the comment , but he should hear what they have to say about he . [ interruption . ] order . do you want to be the first one ? it be Christmas , and I be go to hear this . my constituent be go to have a Christmas like everyone else , and they want to know whether their Christmas be go to be affect , so I want less of it from all side . Government Members have obviously find the donkey for their nativity — the search for three wise man might take a little long . while they fight among themselves , there be a country out here that be not be govern , where more than 100 , 000 people be pay hundred more a month on their mortgage . energy bill be go back up in January . the economy be shrink again . nhs waiting list be at an all - time high . do the Prime Minister not think that the Government would be well off fix the mess they have already make , rather than scramble to create new one ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about govern , but he spend his first two question talk about political tittle - tattle . what a joke . let we get on to the substance . he mention those thing . what be the news we have just hear in the last week ? what be the most important thing ? the most important thing be education , because that be how we spread opportunity in our country . what have we learn ? where be the school perform well in the United Kingdom ? it be in England . thank to the reform of this Conservative Government , they be rise up the league table , give our kid the start they need . where be they plummet ? it be in Labour - run Wales . the Prime Minister talk about child . nearly 140 , 000 child be go to be homeless this Christmas — more than ever before . that be a shocking state of affair , and it should shame the Government . instead of more social housing , house building be set to collapse . instead of ban no - fault eviction , thousand of family be at risk of homelessness . rather than indulge his Back Benchers swanne around in their faction and their " star chamber " pretend to be member of the mafia , when will he get a grip and focus on the country ? let we just look at the fact . rough sleep in this country be down by 35 % since its peak , thank to the effort of this Government . there be hundred of thousand few child in poverty today , thank to this Government . and when it come to home building , again what do we do ? we have have the datum just this last week : in the last year an almost record number of new home be deliver , more than in any year under the last Labour Government . one hundred and forty thousand child homeless this Christmas and the Prime Minister be utterly tone deaf . the rise in homelessness show how these Tory crisis merge and grow and damage the country ; family like the Bradys in Wiltshire , both parent work full time with two young child force out of their home of 15 year by a no - fault eviction , now live in their van . or 11 - year - old Liam Walker , homeless this Christmas . he write a letter to Santa say , " please can I have a forever home ? I don ' t want any new toy , I just want all my old toy out of storage . I just want we to be happy again . " if there be anything that could shame this Government into put the country first , then it be surely this little boy . if the right hon . and learn Gentleman really care about build home — [ interruption . ] no , if he really care about build home — when there be an opportunity in this House to back our plan to reform defective EU law to unlock 100 , 000 new home , what do he do ? he go in front of the camera and say one thing , and then he come in here and block it — typical shameless opportunism . be that really the Prime Minister ' s Christmas message to Liam ? cocoon in his party management breakfast , he just can not see the — order . Mr Cleverly , please . it be Christmas . I want a little bit of silence , and I be go to get it one way or another . that apply to each side . cocoon in his party management breakfast , the Prime Minister just can not see the country in front of he and what they have do . I will finish by thank hard - work family across Britain who keep our country go . it have be an impossibly difficult year for so many . I want to pay special tribute to our key worker , particularly those in emergency service and those serve abroad in our force who , even at this time of year , be do the vital work of protect their country . I wish everyone , include member on the Conservative Benches , a very happy and peaceful new year . will the Prime Minister join I ? I think the right hon and learn Gentleman miss that I pay tribute to our emergency worker at the beginning of the session . but let we see , because I think it be important . he talk about work family . of course I want to make sure that we support work family , and that be what we be actually deliver . all he have to offer they be borrow £ 28 billion a year . all that will do be push up their mortgage rate and push up their taxis . meanwhile , what have we do ? we have deliver tax cut for million of work family , boost the national living wage , recruit 50 , 000 more nurse and 20 , 000 more police officer , improve our school , cut the cost of net zero for work family , cut the boat crossing by a third and halve inflation . that be the difference : we be get on and deliver for work Britain . as the world struggle to agree the future of the 1 . 5 ° commitment , in Wimbledon we be keen to do our bit . to help my campaign to make electric vehicle charge access more widespread , can I ask my right hon . friend for two early Christmas present ? will he speak to our right hon . friend the Chancellor to ask he to look again at the unfair differential rate of vat on public and private charging point ? will he ask our right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to look at the byelaw that stop local council make on - street parking and charge more accessible ? I be happy to tell my hon . friend that the Chancellor have already authorise more than £ 2 billion of investment to support our transition to zero - emission vehicle , and that we be well on track to reach our target of 300 , 000 charge point by 2030 . I can also tell he that we will consult on amend the national planning policy framework to ensure that it prioritise the roll - out of charge point , on top the funding of almost £ 400 million to support local authority to spread they out so that all our family have access to they when they need it . I call the Scottish National party leader . will the Prime Minister please share his Christmas message for child be bomb in Gaza this winter ? nobody want to see this conflict go on for a moment long than necessary . we urgently need more humanitarian pause to get all the hostage out , and to get life - save aid into Gaza to alleviate the suffering of the palestinian people . we have be consistent in support a sustainable ceasefire , which mean that Hamas must stop launch rocket into Israel and release all the hostage . if the current action of the israeli Government continue , it be estimate that almost 1 , 400 more child will die between now and Christmas day . in the United Nations last night , our friend and ally in France , Ireland , Canada , Spain and Australia join 148 other nation to vote with courage , care and compassion for a ceasefire . the UK shamefully abstain . how can the Prime Minister possibly explain why 153 nation be wrong , yet Westminster be right ? as I have say consistently , we be deeply concerned about the devastating impact of the fighting in Gaza on the civilian population . too many people have lose their life already . that be something that we have stress , and something that I stress personally to Prime Minister Netanyahu just last week . what we be do practically be to get more aid into Gaza , and the Foreign Secretary be appoint a UK humanitarian co - ordinator . in my conversation last week with Prime Minister Netanyahu , I press he on open up the Kerem Shalom cross so that more aid can flow in , and we be actively explore the opportunity for maritime corridor , something on which the UK be well place to lead . I can give the hon . Gentleman my assurance that we will work night and day to get more aid to those who desperately need it . we expect our young folk to remain in education or training until they be 18 , but many lack transport to get there . along with the amazing headteacher of Alston Moor Federation , Gill Jackson , I secure fund from the council to get her student to college , and press the council for a half - a - million - pound bursary scheme to extend youth travel more widely . but we should not have to do this . to secure equality of opportunity and true levelling up , will the Prime Minister look to mandate and support council to provide post - 16 transport , so that all our young people in town , city and rural area can reach their next stage in life ? my hon . friend and the headteacher of Alston Moor Federation , Gill Jackson , have do a fantastic job in secure more funding . I wish she well for what I believe be her upcoming retirement . as my hon . friend know , our school travel policy ensure that no child be prevent from access education by a lack of transport . not only do we have home - to - school travel policy , but the 16 to 19 bursary fund can be use to support young people with transport cost , and , more generally , we be take action to keep bus fare cap at £ 2 . however , I will happily ensure that my hon . friend secure a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss his proposal far . the Prime Minister will be aware of unionist concern about the need to remove the irish sea border create by the protocol , which disrupt the UK ' s internal market . will he bring forward legislation to amend the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 , and both guarantee and future - proof Northern Ireland ' s unfettered access to the UK ' s internal market in all scenario ? I thank my right hon . friend . I recognise the need to do more in this area , and I can confirm to he that the Government do stand ready to legislate to protect Northern Ireland ' s integral place in the United Kingdom and the UK internal market , alongside an agreement to restore the Executive . we can do this apace , and I know that my right hon . friend and his colleague be work hard to achieve that . our NHS , our police officer and the most vulnerable in Northern Ireland need devolve government urgently , and I think it be incumbent on all of we to work to work day and night to help to achieve that . Mr Speaker , 121 mp from across the House sign my open letter to supermarket , ask to have a " buy british " button online . I be pleased to announce that last week morrison be the first supermarket to implement a " buy british " tab . this give consumer the choice to have home - grow produce and also support our farmer . will the Prime Minister join my call to other supermarket to have the courage to make the change and follow suit ? this government will always back our farmer , and I welcome the work of my hon . friend and the National Farmers Union on this issue . we absolutely support call for industry - lead action on this topic , and I welcome the news of the " Buy british " button at Morrisons . we will continue to encourage all retailer to do all they can to showcase the incredible food produce right here in the United Kingdom . the marriage plan of thousand of couple be dash last week by the sudden announcement of a big increase in the salary requirement for a spouse visa . can the Prime Minister give any reassurance to those with well - advanced marriage plan that now appear to have be scupper , and to family already in the UK who need to extend their stay but who will not comply with the new rule ? can he at least offer some transitional help for family , or do his party ' s support for the family now apply only to the highly pay ? we have a long - stand principle that anyone bring dependant to the UK must be able to support they financially . we should not expect this to be do at the taxpayer ' s expense . the threshold have not be raise in over a decade and it be right that we have now bring it in line with the median salary . the family immigration route do contain provision for exceptional circumstance , as the right hon . Gentleman know , but more generally it be also right to look at transitional arrangement to ensure that they be fair , and I can tell he that the Home Office be actively look at this and will set out further information shortly . I make no apology for once again raise the issue of steel — [ " hear , hear ! " ] we be now at serious risk of lose the ability to make virgin steel here in the UK . I know that the Government be work hard on this , but it be a matter of national security and we need the Prime Minister ' s leadership on this issue . what be he do to ensure that we be able to make our own virgin steel and that we do not lose it on his watch ? I praise my hon . friend ' s leadership in champion her local community and also the steel industry in the UK . she be right to do so , because it be an incredibly important part not just of our local community but of our economy and security . she be right to put this issue on the agenda . we be commit to work with the steel sector to secure a decarbonised future , support local economic growth and our levelling - up agenda . that include our commitment to major support with energy cost and also access to hundred of million of pound of grant to support energy efficiency and decarbonisation . I obviously can not comment on conversation with individual company , but my hon . friend can see from our track record on work with either Celsa or Tata Steel that we have be able to support our fantastic steel industry , and we will always continue to do so . a rogue company have walk away from 13 , 000 tonne of hazardous waste in Lancaster , and it have now be on fire for 10 day . there be plume of smoke cover our city . Lancaster City Council have be leave to pick up the tab , and to date it have spend £ 262 , 000 . without Government support and intervention this fire will burn for several month , so will the Prime Minister provide my local council with swift Government support ? I thank the hon . member for raise this incredibly important question . I know she have be work alongside my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( David Morris ) on this . I also thank the emergency service in her constituency . my understanding be that Lancaster City Council , the Environment Agency , the UK Health Security Agency and the emergency service be work together to ensure that the health risk and environmental consequence be minimise , but I will ensure that the relevant Minister understand the absolute urgency of the issue the hon . Lady have raise and make sure that she meet they as soon as possible . some dental practice be take advantage of post - covid demand to take their NHS practice private , earn more money but leave behind those most in need . train a dentist cost constituent in Broadland more than £ 300 , 000 . do my right hon . friend agree that if a dentist accept public funding in order to qualify , they should be ask to commit to NHS dentistry for a number of year before go private ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . we be invest £ 3 billion in dentistry . the NHS dentistry contract be reform last year to improve access for patient , and around half of all treatment be deliver to non - pay adult and child . the number of adult see have go up by 10 % and the number of child see have go up by 15 % , but my hon . friend be right that more need to be do , which be why the Government will bring forward the dentistry recovery plan in due course . there be 12 day until Christmas , and hundred of family in Battersea be worried , not about be able to buy gift for their child but about whether they can afford food and heat due to the Tory cost of living crisis . this year , over 4 , 300 emergency food parcel have be provide in Battersea by the Wandsworth food bank , which have tell I that it be brace for the bad winter yet . what be the Prime Minister do to ensure that family do not go cold and hungry this Christmas ? we care deeply about make sure the most vulnerable in our society get the support they need through the winter , which be why we increase welfare by record amount early this year . we supplement that with £ 900 in cost of living payment for the most vulnerable . it be why we have provide energy bill support for those who need our help the most . pensioner in the hon . Lady ' s constituency and elsewhere will receive up to £ 300 alongside their winter fuel payment . indeed , that support will last not just through the winter but into next year , because we be deeply committed to help those who need it . this Government have a track record of deliver that help . the Prime Minister be rightly focus on take long - term decision to improve the life of people in this country , so can I make a suggestion ? our mental health legislation be 40 year old , and we make a manifesto commitment in 2017 and 2019 to reform the Mental Health Act 1983 because people with learn disability and autism who be section under the Act be be keep in inappropriate accommodation for long period . People section under the Act be not receive the compassionate care they deserve and be , in a sense , criminalise . they have their mental health condition re - stigmatise by the act of section . in the absence of a Bill in the King ' s Speech , will the Prime Minister agree to meet I and other like - minded colleague to discuss how we might take forward the reform of the Mental Health Act , because it simply be not fit for the 21st century ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue . he be absolutely right about the work that need to be do , and I be grateful to the Joint Committee on the Draft Mental Health Bill . our intention be to bring forward a Bill when parliamentary time allow . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend and other colleague to discuss this . I remind everyone that we be undertake the large expansion of mental health service in a generation , with £ 2 . 3 billion of extra funding by March 2024 . we be increase capital investment in mental health urgent care centre and , under the long - term workforce plan , provide the large expansion of the mental health workforce we have ever see in this country . rather than the Government chaos that be dominate medium headline , much more important to the public , business and organisation be their deeply unsatisfactory day - to - day experience of engage with this dysfunctional Administration . as far as they can see , Britain be not work . when be the Prime Minister go to get a grip ? the most pressing issue face family be the cost of living . that be why this Government have deliver what we say , which be to halve inflation , and not only that ; we be supplement it with significant tax cut , which will benefit work family from January — £ 450 for a typical person in work — demonstrate that we be absolutely on the side of hard - work family . this government be cut their taxis . breast cancer survival rate have improve , but we need to go far on hard - to - reach cancer . in Parliament this afternoon , there be a drop - in session on lobular breast cancer and the research we need . could my right hon . friend or his excellent new Secretary of State for Health and Social Care find time in their busy diary to join we ? I thank my right hon . friend for his work on this specific and important issue . I be happy to tell he that I believe the Health Secretary be attend this afternoon ' s event to hear more about that work . I can assure he that we be focus on fight cancer on all front : prevention , diagnosis , treatment , research and funding . we be make good progress , but there be always more we can do . I look forward to hear from he after this afternoon ' s event . while the Home Secretary be in Rwanda sign his new treaty , his Department put out a contract to manage small boat arrival until 2030 , at a cost of £ 700 million to the taxpayer . do that not show that even the Home Office do not think the Minister ' s plan will work ? that be a total mischaracterisation of what be put out , which be an advert , not a commitment . I be glad that the hon . Lady now care about this issue — not something we have see previously from Labour . our track record be clear : we have get the number of small boat arrival down this year by over a third . that be what we be do about it . the Labour party be vote against every measure that we have take . I chair the caucus of 38 Conservative Members of Parliament who have Britain ' s long river flow through their constituency , and we have present a business case to the Chancellor for £ 500 million to try to manage the river holistically . our constituency be now face flooding every year , cause damage to our business and our community . this evening , I have an Adjournment debate on flooding of the River Severn . will the Prime Minister take an interest , because the business case show a gross value add uplift for the west midland of more than £ 100 billion if we can manage and tame Britain ' s long river ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . I recall that he and I speak about it when I be Chancellor , and I praise he for his work and leadership on this issue in his local area . I will make sure that the Chancellor do look at the business case . my hon . friend will know that we have significantly increase funding for flood defence , to over £ 5 billion , protect hundred of thousand more home , but if it be an interesting opportunity for the Chancellor , I be sure he will take that up . what be bad : lose your WhatsApp message as a tech bro , lose £ 11 . 8 billion to fraud as Chancellor , preside over the big fall in living standard in our history , or desperately cling on to power when you have become even more unpopular than Boris Johnson ? what matter to I be deliver for the british people , and that be exactly what we be do . for the final question , I call Theresa Villiers . give the appalling report of sexual violence commit by Hamas on 7 October and the risk that hostage could have that treatment inflict on they as well , will the Prime Minister raise this issue in international forum so that the international community demand , strongly , humanitarian access to hostage in Gaza ? the report of sexual violence perpetrate by Hamas be deeply shocking . we have raise our concern with the United Nations a fortnight or so ago , and we be engage with the israeli Government to consider what far support we can provide . more broadly , we continue to do everything we can to ensure that all hostage can return safely to their family , include the british hostage and those with link to the UK . my right hon . friend can rest assure that the Foreign Secretary and I be work tirelessly to bring about their safe return . LGBT Veterans Independent Review with permission , I would like to set out the Government ' s formal response to Lord Etherton ' s LGBT veteran independent review . the treatment of those armed force personnel perceive to be LGBT between 1967 and 2000 have long be a stain on the conscience of the nation . last year , this Government ask Lord Etherton to conduct a review into the impact of the historic ban on homosexuality in Defence . follow the call for evidence , the inquiry receive 1 , 128 response from those who be dismiss or discharge because of their sexual orientation ; from those who feel compel to resign , purchase their release from service or curtail their contract because of the ban ; and from those who , while not part of the LGBT community , witness the trauma of such antediluvian rule , as family member , colleague or friend . Etherton paint an unflinche picture of the most shocking treatment of gay member of our Defence community by an institutionally homophobic organisation . out of the blue , when apply to be a reservist in 1980 , I be ask if I be gay . even then that strike I as hugely inappropriate , but that strong sense of impropriety , which have stay with I for 43 year , pale into insignificance against the wall of hurt experience by LGBT people in the course of their defence journey , much of it evidence by Terence Etherton . different member of the community have be impact differently . yet , for each and every one , the repercussion be endure , with the tentacle reach into all dimension of their life since . sadly , we can not turn back the clock , but we can apologise for decade of hurt . that be what the Prime Minister do after Lord Etherton publish his report in July and what the Defence Secretary and chief of service have do in their turn . however , apology alone be not enough . Etherton demand more and we agree . that be why the Government take step to right historic wrong , even before the report be publish . in 2021 , we begin hand back medal to anyone who have have they withhold or remove because of their sexuality . medal matter ; they should never have be snatch away . in December 2021 , we remove the barrier that prevent those live with HIV from join the military and , back in June , the Home Office extend its disregard and pardon scheme , wipe historic conviction for same - sex sexual activity . the extension be especially important for veteran , because it broaden the eligibility to include any same - sex conviction that would not be a crime today , thereby cover service disciplinary offence . in addition , we publish guidance help to make LGBT veteran aware of thing to which they might not have feel they be entitle . that include information on mental and physical health support , as well as benefit that all veteran be able to receive , not to mention the armed force veteran badge , which I hand out to a number of veteran at this year ' s Pride event in London . however , today we go far still . I can announce we be accept the intent behind all 49 of Lord Etherton ' s recommendation . in fact , to date we have already implement almost half of they . we have establish a legacy website to host the review , the Government response and information collect by the review , include testimony . through Op Courage , we be ensure a focus on the non - combat mental health impact of the ban . significantly , in some instance we have go above and beyond the review recommendation . for example , Etherton advise make certain restorative measure available for the next of kin of deceased veteran , but we have create a broad definition of next of kin — namely , person of sufficient interest — recognise the impact the ban may have have on LGBT veteran ' relationship and ensure that those they would have nominate as next of kin be see as such . next year will see the expand roll - out of the armed force veteran card to all veteran who serve in the UK armed force before 2018 , and plan for a veteran memorial at the National Memorial Arboretum be also now under way . today , we be throw open the front door to our LGBT veteran . today , we ask they to apply or register an interest for restorative measure that be relevant to they , include individual apology letter , return of beret and cap badge , amendment to veteran ' service history and additional personal testimony to evidence collect by the review . that testimony will eventually become part of the historic record in the National Archives , signal that our LGBT veteran will never be forget and that 33 year of national shame will never be expunge , and affirm and celebrate the part that those veteran play in our country ' s history . I strongly urge colleague across the House to encourage LGBT constituent to come forward , read the online guide and complete the application form for restorative measure . importantly , the form will also allow veteran to indicate their interest in apply for a financial award when eligibility be confirm and that scheme go live . Lord Etherton recommend that an appropriate award should be make to affected veteran , with the Government ' s overall exposure cap at £ 50 million . we have agree to that in full , but , in order to develop the scheme , we will first need to gain a much well understanding of what the affected cohort look like . hence , we be call for veteran to indicate their interest on the form that go live today . that datum will help official and the community — work together — to design a fair and equitable scheme for distribute the fund that Lord Etherton have call for and that we accept . there will be an opportunity for a full debate in the new year once the financial award scheme be mature and we have the benefit of the datum capture through the front door that I be open today . once again , I place on record my gratitude to Lord Etherton and his team for their outstanding work compile a comprehensive and deeply affect report . I thank fight with Pride and our working group , include trusted stakeholder and independent LGBT veteran , who not only make sure that their voice be hear , but help steer our response throughout . they will not seek it , but may I mark out Craig Jones and Caroline Paige in particular for their part in bring we to where we be today ? above all , I pay tribute to all those who come forward in the first place . those veteran show tremendous courage in chronicle traumatic experience , which for many have be suppress , cause grief and groundless silent shame for decade . today ' s Defence have come a long way since 2000 . we can not change the past , but we can make the future well . in accept Lord Etherton ' s recommendation , we salute a slight generation and ensure that its successor can hold their head high in a place that want they , value they and honour they . I be today place a copy of the Government ' s response in the Library , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for early sight of his statement . with due respect to the right hon . Gentleman , who be a diligent Minister , this statement should have be make by the Defence Secretary ; the last one be . this no - show from the Defence Secretary downgrade the importance that the Government give in July to back up the Prime Minister ' s apology to LGBT + veteran . crucially , it undermine the confidence that LGBT veteran will have in the Government be serious about fully implement the Etherton review and fully right the injustice arise from the ban on LGBT people serve in our armed force until 2000 . this be unfinished business for Labour . we lift the ban in 2000 . we argue for the Etherton review in the Armed Forces Bill . we welcome its publication and recommendation . we again thank Lord Etherton for his review and the inclusive way in which he conduct it . at the heart of the review be the statement of those who be victim of the overt , often brutal , homophobic policy . we pay tribute to they for share their experience and give their testimony . like the Minister , I also pay tribute to group such as fight with Pride , which have campaign for justice , along with backing from wide veteran organisation such as the Royal British Legion and help for Heroes . this be a cause that unite the House . the previous Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , say in a powerful and move statement in July that he have " decide specifically that a debate in the House should take place " in order to " make sure that the House properly debate the report and the Government ' s response to it , " and not just the compensation scheme , as the Minister have imply . will the Government honour that promise to the House in full ? when will that debate take place ? to be clear , the debate be of profound importance to veteran . it should be a watershed moment for defence to move beyond the long , shameful shadow of the past , and to say in the future , " we be deeply proud of our LGBT veteran . we honour your service to our nation . you be part of we . " the previous Defence Secretary also say : " we will be very happy to work with the opposition … to discuss our thinking on the recommendation . " — [ Official Report , 19 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 921 - 24 . ] that have not happen . the Minister confirm today that the Government " be accept the intent behind all 49 of Lord Etherton ' s recommendation . " the previous Defence Secretary point out that the Government " may deliver a number " of those recommendation " in different way from that describe in the report . " — [ Official Report , 19 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 921 . ] in his statement today , the Minister be not clear on that . we welcome progress on hand back medal , on an armed force veteran badge and on a national memorial , and we welcome the opening of registration of interest for the restorative measure , but what action be the Minister take to ensure that pension be fully restore to those who be misinformed that their pension right have be abolish , and to guarantee that those whose evidence of investigation be destroy in 2010 do not lose out ? will he fully involve fight with Pride and other veteran group in develop the compensation scheme , and confirm that the scheme will make provision for the two main group propose by fight with Pride ? be the financial provision of £ 50 million in the 2024 Ministry of Defence budget , and when do he aim to open up the scheme ? we can not change the past , but we can act to make amend . we can honour the service of our LGBT veteran . we can take pride in the inspiration that they provide to future generation . that be what they , and we across the House , have the right to expect from Ministers . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman . I gently remind he that it be this Government who set up the Etherton review , and it be this Government who be carry out the 49 recommendation . I be proud of that . he need to be very careful : political party should not throw stone , and I think that he would be the last to try to make party political point out of this subject matter . to a large extent , I think that we have resist that . I say that a full debate would happen in the new year , but it must have the advantage of there be something meaningful to debate — namely , the financial element , which I perceive to be the main point of likely controversy . the right hon . Gentleman make it clear that we be all in agreement with the general thrust of the review , so the controversy will be around how we structure the financial award . I expect to be in a much well place in the new year to bring a suggestion to the House about how we might do that , have consult other and observe the lesson of the past and experience in other country . however , the debate will not be confine to the finance . I think that be imply by my use of the phrase " full debate " . I hope that reassure he . on intent , we have discuss before other way of deliver the same outcome to the satisfaction of veteran . for example , some veteran want a veteran badge that be different from the exist veteran badge ; some do not . we have therefore design a ribbon , which I have see the prototype for , and I think that be a compromise . that be an example of how we might do thing differently from the way describe by Lord Etherton . Lord Etherton also talk about re - list people on the Navy , Army and Air Force list . those list do not exist in the way they once do , but we can publish those name , if people want they publish , via the London Gazette . that be a further example of do the same thing , but in a different way . we debate pension in the summer , when we last go round this particular buoy , so the right hon . Gentleman will know that accrue pension right remain . however , some people be mislead when they leave the armed force , and I strongly recommend that they refer to the guidance available on gov . uk . the " LGBT veteran : support and next step " page be very comprehensive and will take people through how they can apply for pension if they be not currently draw they . destroy document , as the right hon . Gentleman will be aware , be impossible to rediscover . however , there be tag attach to most of they that highlight the fact that material have be remove follow the advice of the Association of Chief Police Officers in 2010 , so there be a marker , at least , of why those page be miss . he will know too that ACPO make those recommendation for very good reason at the time — namely , the desire of people who have be wrong to have reference to those wrong expunge from their record . I think that I have cover most of the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , but I want to be as comprehensive as I possibly can , so if I have miss anything out , I will be happy to write to he . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . last week , I meet fight with Pride and one of my constituent , who I will not name because he have not give I permission to do so . three point come across in that meeting . the first be the importance of testimony . he be a grown man who have be discharge in the 1980 and whose mother have receive a letter from his command officer out he as gay . he be still traumatise and cry in my office last week . this be about make sure that those testimony be hear . the second point be about have the debate on the Floor of the House and not farm it out to Westminster Hall . will the Minister make sure that the debate happen on the Floor of the House ? the third point be about financial redress . I welcome the opportunity that my constituent will now have to feed in how he have be impact — how he have live a life alone , because he have carry that shame for all these year . on behalf of my constituent and all the other LGBT serviceman and woman who suffer in that way , I put it on the record that they want the opportunity to feed in their own story so that the financial redress address the harm they suffer . my right hon . friend be right that testimony be vital . those testimony will ultimately be lodge in the National Archives and they will be part of our national story . I urge she to encourage her constituent to log on and provide their testimony — that be very important . I can confirm that the debate will be on the Floor of the House and not in Westminster Hall . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . in it he say : " the treatment of those armed force personnel perceive to be LGBT between 1967 and 2000 have long be a stain on the conscience of the nation . " it have also be a stain on the conscience of this place , so I welcome his statement today and the work of Lord Etherton . the apology the Minister speak of be welcome , but they will never take away the hurt or the terrible impact on the life of those affect by this institutional homophobia . we must remember that while homosexuality be decriminalise in 1967 , the ban on LGBT people in the armed force remain for 33 more year . that be three decade of additional harm . the reality be that all our veteran deserve respect and proper support , and all the more so those ostracise and shame in that way . I recognise what the Minister say on reparation , but what assessment have he make of the adequacy of the reparation cap ? I wonder how that arbitrary cap on reparation payment will work , particularly when , as he say , we be ask people to come forward . how can he set a cap at this stage ? he say he be throw open the door today , but that need to be do in a way that be as easy as possible for people to navigate and that work for all those affect . no one must be leave behind . my colleague Keith Brown MSP , himself a veteran , be lead a Members ' business debate in the Scottish Parliament today on fight with Pride . I be pleased that the Minister speak about fight with Pride and I would be keen to hear more about his reassurance that he will continue to work with that group and other to make sure that all LGBT veteran be properly and adequately support in the way that be right for each of they individually . the cap be part of the Etherton report . we have accept all 49 recommendation and be work they through . I do not know — the hon . Lady will have to ask he — but I suspect that Lord Etherton be mindful of the canadian experience in that regard . the canadian scheme be not directly comparable to anything we might set up , not least because of its scope , but nevertheless there be precedent and I imagine Lord Etherton be mindful of that . the hon . Lady be right to suggest that we should work with the community , and she cite fight with Pride in particular . we have of course do that throughout and I pay tribute to they . we will continue to work with they on the detail of the financial scheme as we work those out in the next few month . when fight with Pride describe to I , some time ago now , the awful thing that we have do to LGBT veteran , it be the bad injustice I have hear of in my 26 year in Parliament . I welcome the Etherton report , which come about as a result , and I welcome the Minister ' s warm , deep and expansive response to it today . the fact that he be accept all 49 recommendation be vital . the debate be also important , because veteran want to tell their tale through their own MP , and I think that will be a great opportunity to do so . however , like the SNP spokesperson , I have a concern : if the claim that come through the website that the Minister describe come to more than £ 50 million , will the Government undertake to revisit the cap ? it would be crazy if £ 51 million be apply for , but the cap say that only £ 50 million could be pay out . my hon . friend will know full well that we can not write a blank cheque . it be just not possible to do that . Lord Etherton come up with £ 50 million , which be a significant amount of money . he will have be mindful of other scheme , albeit not directly comparable , in this country and overseas . that be why , I believe , the figure of £ 50 million be arrive at . I thank the Minister for his statement . recommendation 16 of the report reference pension . in his statement , he say that people can apply for pension that have be accrue , but some individual will have expect a pension for long service but be dismiss before they could accrue it . will that be take into account , and will next of kin be able to access those pension benefit ? on the £ 50 million compensation , which be recommendation 28 of the report , I be a little lose to understand how that will be distribute . if the Minister be go to come up with a scheme , I suggest that he look at the Post Office Horizon compensation scheme , of which I have be on the advisory board for the last year , help to develop it . we be go to have to look at what element be take into account before we get to an accrue sum . set up an advisory board or some steering group to work up the scheme would be a good idea — and let I say that I do not think £ 50 million will even touch the side . there be precedent for such a scheme , as I say — I hope the right hon . Gentleman will be aware of the canadian scheme — so we be not start with a blank sheet of paper , and neither be Lord Etherton . on pension , it be important that those who think they do not have an entitlement to pension look again , because accrue pension be accrue pension and be not forfeit . I take the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about pension that might have be accrue after the point at which individual leave the service . there be no way of restore those pension , and I hope he will understand that . it would be incredibly difficult to do that , so I be not go to give he any encouragement that that will form any part of our deliberation in relation to the financial award . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on woman in defence , and of the Defence Committee ' s inquiry on woman in the armed force and female veteran , I wholeheartedly welcome the statement and thank Lord Etherton for his work . however , I be also acutely aware of the strength of feeling on this matter , which disproportionately affect woman , and on the ban on pregnancy in our armed force . our armed force still have pocket of misogyny , poor leadership and inappropriate behaviour , so will the Minister continue to commit to root that out so that we can have a well environment for our armed force now and in the future ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and predecessor . I pay tribute to she for the work that she have do , not least in her report , which have be extraordinarily impactful . I agree with her 100 % : we need to root out misogyny wherever it be find in defence . I hope she will accept that , thank to her report and the work of other , we have take significant stride in that direction . on 9 May 1996 , I speak in this House about the case of John Beckett , one of my constituent . he be a young man who have be in the Royal Navy for five year and be go to train to be an officer . along with three other young man , he be discharge for be gay . all he have do be to have a civilian gay relationship , about which we have tell his padre and his command officer , and it be sufficient to have he discharge . we can try to undo the wrong that be do to John Beckett and other at the time . I know that John get another job afterwards , but can the Minister possibly believe it be right that someone who commit no crime — all he do be offend against the bigotry and prejudice of those who discharge he — will potentially have to suffer financially for the rest of his life for what be do to he ? surely , when we come to look at compensation , the principle ought to be to not merely to rectify the hurt and the prejudice of the time , but to ensure that people do not lose out financially for the rest of their life . that be why Lord Etherton have make his recommendation on financial award . the structuring of that be yet to be determine , but I just want to manage expectation — as I suspect my canadian counterpart manage the expectation of the canadian community — about the quantum . I do not want people to think that all that financial loss will be restore to they — it would be unwise of we to suggest that . the hon . Gentleman mention padre . I hope that he read the Government ' s response to the report in full . if he do , he will see that there be a specific section relate to chaplaincy , and contrition on the part of chaplaincy about how some of its practitioner behave during that period , which I think do they no credit at all . I be very sorry to hear the testimony that he have just give . I encourage his constituent to engage with the front door that I be launch today . I join other in thank Lord Etherton and all those who take the brave step of share their experience with he to inform the review and all 49 recommendation . although significant work clearly need to be do to follow through on those recommendation , will my right hon . friend consider how we can use this work to help part of the world that be still face up to this realisation ? they may need to do a wholesale piece of work to understand how they can change the way they deal with the LGBT community among their military personnel and veteran . the change that we be see in the UK must not be stop from happen elsewhere in the world . none of we have a monopoly on this . we be learn from the canadian experience , and I expect other will learn from we . across the board , this country be look up to as a purveyor of norm and value of the high order . when , for example , we train people from among our ally in how to conduct themselves , as be happen right now , those norm and value be inculcate , include this material . in the late ' 80 , I be very close to someone who suffer considerably as a result of this ban when she be throw out of the Army for be a lesbian . she have she distinguished and lengthy period of military service cut short , she be humiliate in the process , and , initially , she find it hard to find employment commensurate with her skill and worth as a human being . all that happen to she just because she be a woman who love other woman . it be a ban base on sexual orientation — nothing more , nothing less . her loss , and that of other , include pain and suffering , loss of earning , loss of employability and loss of pension right . any compensation scheme should seek to put they back in the position that they would have be in be it not for that homophobic ban . can the Minister confirm that all those head of damage — pain and suffering , loss of earning , loss of employability and loss of pension right — will be take into account in the compensation scheme ? the hon . and learn Lady will be aware that , in the early 2000 , the MOD be take to court by a significant number of people who have be malign in the way she have describe . the MOD be find wanting and award be make at that time . I can not give she the assurance that she seek because the financial award scheme — it be a financial award scheme , not a compensation scheme — be still be work through , but I hope that we will be able to come back to the House soon to describe at least the bare bone of what we have in mind . may I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and for the tone in which he deliver it , and express my pleasure that there will be a memorial at the National Memorial Arboretum in my constituency ? what discussion have he have with colleague in the Home Office regard any conviction that there may have be for servicemen in connection with their military service and their sexual orientation ? my hon . friend will be aware of the disregard and pardon provision in part 12 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . they have the effect of expunge those offence , which be no long offence . that clearly apply to what we be debate today . the answer to his question be that that expunge of material will be complete in relation to offence that be service offence and go outwith the civilian — then criminal — offence list in part 12 . [ Official Report , 8 January 2024 , Vol . 743 , c . 2mc . ] my constituent work for the Secret Intelligence Service between 1975 and 1984 . in 1984 , he be offer a post overseas , at which point he declare that he be gay , and he be then dismiss expressly because of his sexual orientation . I thank Lord Etherton for the review and for meet I to discuss this . clearly , the review do not cover my constituent , but he and other in his position do not even have the comfort of be able to go public at any point because of the nature of their employment . have the Minister speak to colleague in other part of Government ? if not , will he undertake to do so , because this experience should not be prolong for those in the secret element of service to this nation ? I be more than happy to discuss the detail of that constituent ' s concern separately . this be a review into the way in which Defence handle the matter between 1967 and 2000 , and Lord Etherton ' s term of reference be draw up accordingly . from what the hon . Lady have just tell I , I do not think that her constituent will be cover by the review , but I be more than happy to have a conversation . I commend the Government for commission the review and thank Lord Etherton for such a thorough piece of work . I also thank the Government for accept all 49 of the recommendation — it be pretty unusual to accept all the recommendation , so the Government should be commend for that . to follow on from the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) about the disregard — or " expunge " , as the Minister suggest — be I right in think that those who have have service conviction would need to apply ? if so , what more can be do to encourage they to apply to the Home Office for those disregard ? perhaps the Ministry of Defence could proactively suggest to they that they could do so . far to the question ask by the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , the UK intelligence community should not be overlook . there should perhaps be a second review , or at least some sort of internal review , about the treatment of UK intelligence officer over the past few decade . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his question . Lord Etherton ' s term of reference be deliberately draw in the way that they be to focus specifically on defence , but my right hon . friend have make a reasonable point , and I be sure colleague across Government will hear what he have say . I be more than happy to have a discussion about this specific case with the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and with my right hon . friend , if they wish to do so . it be important that if we be consider the implication for wide public service , we learn from what have go before and from this review . I be confident that colleague right across Government will be look at what we have propose do in response to Lord Etherton ' s report today and draw their own conclusion . perhaps they can learn from what have go on and assure themselves that they , in turn , do not have dark corner that need to be give the light that Lord Etherton ' s report have certainly give to defence . I draw attention to my declaration in the Register of Member ' s Financial Interests , include those relate to my recent Army Reserve service . I be very happy to be able to do that as an openly gay man alongside many other LGBT + service personnel who serve we bravely around the world and in this country . that opportunity be not available to the many generation who go before who be equally courageous and brave in the service of our country in so many context , but who face horrific discrimination . one of those discriminate against be one of my constituent in Cardiff South and Penarth . she be discharge in a totally humiliating way from the RAF in the 1970 for be a lesbian , but in her service record , the reason be record as " service no long require . " I have raise her case with the MOD over many year , but be tell that it could not be change because it be correctly administer . in his statement , the Minister refer to amendment to veteran ' service history , which recommendation 26 and 27 of the report also refer to . will he confirm that where individual be discharge for reason other than their sexuality , but their sexuality be clearly the reason , that will be consider in restitution for they and their service ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman — I remember he raise his constituent ' s case when we debate this matter in the summer . the straight answer to his question be " yes " , and I encourage his constituent to go to the front door that be now open to ensure her case be properly examine and , if she want , reference to what happen to she be remove or expunge . it be impossible to put a price on , or indeed measure , the extent of the grief , trauma and shame that be cause to LGBT veteran , so why should we be put a financial cap on the compensation they be go to get ? when I be at a fighting with Pride event recently , that grief , trauma and shame be palpable , so I plead with the Minister that although there be much to celebrate in Lord Etherton ' s report — I congratulate he and the Government on it — there be clearly shortfall , and give that nothing have be decide , he could go far . I be sure he agree , and I think he should do so , give what have be experience by our LGBT veteran . I be grateful to the hon . Lady . Lord Etherton recommend £ 50 million , and we have accept that recommendation . the detail of the scheme will be work out in the next few month , and I hope she will be pleased with what she see . we need to know what the cohort look like . at the moment , we really do not know that , which be why the front door open today . in a very short while , I hope , with the help of right hon . and hon . member across the House encourage their constituent , we will have a well handle on who need to be mark with this financial reward , and what they suffer at the time and the degree of that . once we have a handle on that , we will be well place to design a quantum that will be appropriate to people who be malign between 1967 and 2000 . I welcome the Government ' s recognition of and apology for the persecution , dismissal or force resignation of LGBT personnel , but the answer the Minister have give be raise more concern . the first be the cap on reparation , the second be whether there be a deadline for those reparation , and the third be this : if people ' s record do not actually state that their dismissal be because of LGBT persecution , how be they mean to prove that it be ? the answer be " with difficulty " , give what happen in 2010 for perfectly understandable and perfectly good reason — it be the law of unintended consequence , be it not ? I can not give the hon . Lady that detail at the moment , because it be be work out . it be so very difficult : if everybody have their record mark up , it would be quite straightforward , but they do not . we need to know who the folk be who be in scope , and then we need to look at what record exist . many of those record have tag place on they when paper be remove , which I think will help . we also have to look at other scheme , such as the canadian scheme . however , I suspect most right hon . and hon . member in this House would be cautious about the canadian scheme , because it draw the criterion very narrowly . those who be nudge out , or inch out , through all sort of mean — innuendo , personal pressure , or be tip the nod and the wink that somebody be on to they — would be disadvantage under the canadian scheme . I hope they will not be disadvantage under our . the RAF lose a courageous serviceperson in 1997 when it sack Carl Austin - Behan . Carl win the Royal Humane Society bronze medal for rescue a pilot from a burn Hawk aircraft at RAF Chivenor . last September , an inquiry find that there have be accelerate enlistment for woman and ethnic minority candidate in the RAF , which be find to be dubious and possibly in breach of the Equality Act 2010 . clearly , we be not look for that sort of overcorrection , but what assessment have the Government make of the legacy of the sacking of people such as Carl for recruit the next generation of courageous gay service personnel ? let I be absolutely clear : defence want people , regardless of their sex , gender , sexual orientation , ethnicity and social class . we just want people with talent — that be the touchstone for recruitment into the Army , Navy and Air Force right now . I do not care if people be gay ; I welcome gay people serve side by side with everybody else . our history be full of example of the most courageous individual who serve in uniform and be gay . I be privileged to be an ambassador for fight with Pride , and I work with the Minister for Veterans ’ affair on this matter before he take up his role . I pay tribute to Caroline and Craig in particular , as well as all the people they have be work with . fight with Pride have welcome the pace , positive intent and completeness of this process , but the next stage be a full debate in this Chamber to which member can contribute . I hope the Minister will listen to the representation he have hear today . finally , I put on record my concern about the £ 50 million cap and the fact that the Minister have speak about this be a financial award scheme , not a compensation scheme . I think the Government be in the wrong place on that and that they will end up cause themselves more problem if they do not seek to compensate veteran who have lose livelihood , career and pension through their mistreatment by Government . I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s observation . he may like to look up the canadian scheme , which be a reasonable exemplar , although the circumstance be different . it award 110 million canadian dollar , and this morning a canadian dollar be worth 58p , but that scheme cover a much broad scope and the population of Canada be small than that of the UK . it cover police , the armed force and civil servant , so the scope be much wide . although the two be not directly comparable , the canadian scheme do at least make we feel that we be in the right ballpark . I be afraid I can not give the hon . Gentleman the commitment he be seek , but I urge he to look closely at other scheme and certainly at the canadian one , which be probably the close comparator we have . may I impress again on the Minister the importance of hear LGBT veteran ' voice on the Floor of the House , just as it be important to hear the apology from the Prime Minister at the time ? I , too , want to share my concern about the structure of the scheme that the Minister have talk about . he have refer to a front door ; can we have an assurance that that front door will remain open for as long as be need ? many of our LGBT veteran suffer great trauma and shame , and will be quite far away from that front door . they will need support from trust partner such as fight with Pride to get anywhere near it . yes , the front door will remain open , but a stakeholder pack will also be send to all organisation that we know be interested , urge they to socialise it , which be vital . I can not emphasise enough that it be vital that those who believe they be eligible for some restorative action — in the first instance , non - financial — should register their interest . in do so , they be able to register or flag the fact that they may be interested in a financial award as well . unless we have that datum , I think our job of determine what the scheme ultimately look like will be very difficult , and the soon we get a handle on that , the soon we can start to get money out of the door . this be an issue I raise many time over the five year that I be the armed force spokesperson for the SNP , so I very much welcome Lord Etherton ' s review , and I pay tribute to Caroline and Craig at fight with Pride . we have mention the spurious reason for which many LGBT veteran be dismiss . of course , the other thing be that the colleague they serve with be encourage to report their suppose misdemeanour . I do think one of the difficulty for the Government will be track down all those who have be affect and impact by this , but it will not just be in their own record . I be sure there must be thing in other people ' s record that can be tie into this as well . I want to mention the £ 50 million . I have do a quick sum , and if the 1 , 120 people who respond each get a share , it would be £ 44 , 000 each , which be an absolute pittance for a lost career , a lose pension , loss of earning and the loss of a reference to go on to a new career outside the armed force . we really have to look at that £ 50 million figure , which do not even touch the surface . the canadian scheme offer sum range from 100 , 000 canadian dollar to 5 , 000 canadian dollar depend on what happen . it be tiere in a way that give a range of award depend on the experience evidence , and it be evidence . it be more difficult when we come to a scheme where evidence be difficult to come by . I think the hon . Member would accept that , for some of the high level award , we do have to have some form of evidence that people be forcibly eject from the armed force . now , £ 50 million be a great deal of money . it be a recommendation in the Etherton report , which we have accept . we will use that as our guide star in design the scheme that we have in mind for financial award . I be not go to promise she or indeed give she any hope that we will breach the £ 50 million . it be the Government ' s intent that we should stick at that figure . I want to add my gratitude for the work do by fight with Pride and to those affected veteran who give evidence to the review , include a constituent of mine . in response to the hon . member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) , who be no long in his place , the Minister mention — I hope it be a slip of the tongue — the debate today . I do hope that the debate will be soon in the new year in this Chamber and in Government time . it be be report that an early draft of the Etherton review recommend double the compensation offer for LGBT veteran than have come out in the final version . can the Minister tell the House if that be the case and , if so , why the compensation offer have be halve ? I be certainly not aware of that . Lord Etherton be know for his independence , and his report be independent . Lord Etherton say £ 50 million , and I will leave it at that . I thank the Minister for his statement . Afghan Resettlement Update in September this year , I notify Members of the House that on 31 August the Government have successfully end the use of bridge hotel for thousand of legally resettle Afghans , and through the hard work and determination of central Government official and local authority , the vast majority of they be now in settle accommodation . hotel be never design to be a permanent solution either for the Afghans who risk their life work for UK force in Afghanistan or , indeed , for the british taxpayer . end the provision of bridge accommodation be the right thing to do for our afghan friend , who can now get on with rebuild their life . the hotel exit plan require a considerable cross - Government effort and represent a significant national achievement , but our debt of gratitude to our afghan partner be ongoing . we be now work to ensure that Afghans who be eligible for relocation via the afghan relocation and assistance policy and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , and who remain overseas in Pakistan and other third country , be move over here at pace so they can start to rebuild their life here in the United Kingdom . on the current trajectory estimate , we expect to have welcome around 3 , 500 arrival by the end of 2023 across ACRS and ARAP , and wherever possible new arrival will go straight into settle accommodation . for ARAP family , this will largely be into service family accommodation option , which have be make available by the Ministry of Defence across the country . the Ministry of Defence be also provide short - term transitional accommodation until movement into settle accommodation be possible . for ACRS arrival , we be commit to bring eligible person over to the UK as fast as possible , and this week we will welcome 250 arrival from Pakistan , with a further flight arrive next week . some 70 % of family manifest on these flight have be pre - match into settle accommodation , but for a small number of this cohort transitional accommodation will be require . the Government remain committed to end the systemic use of hotel , and we do not plan to open new hotel to meet this increase demand . a small number of hotel with exist contract will be extend for a limited time period to help accommodate ACRS arrival who have yet to be match to settle housing solution in the United Kingdom . the Home Office have already undertake initial engagement with local authority in which those hotel be locate , and it will continue to work closely with council across the United Kingdom to ensure they be receive the support they need to relocate afghan family into settle accommodation as quickly as possible . the Government recognise the challenge that local authority face when it come to resettle community across the United Kingdom , and that be why we put in place a generous funding package of £ 285 million in March to help fund housing solution and support council to provide integration support to afghan family . while the scale of the task be much small this time than it be in the summer , with the vast majority of arrival this year already pre - match to settle accommodation , the Government will be match the commitment we previously make to local authority by offer a similar funding package of financial support for the resettlement of these new arrival . that include wraparound funding of £ 28 per person per day , which be available to council that be support household in transitional accommodation . in addition , local authority will be able to draw on the flexible housing fund , which provide over £ 7 , 000 per afghan individual to enable they to support move - ons , and that will be cap at £ 35 , 000 per household . furthermore , funding will be provide to mitigate any additional pressure of homelessness from transitional accommodation , and there will be up to six month of wraparound funding for those in temporary accommodation . where local authority be support afghan arrival into settle accommodation , they can claim the integration tariff funding of £ 20 , 520 per person over the first three year towards resettlement and integration cost . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities will continue to explore a range of accommodation option to ensure the use of transitional hotel accommodation be keep to an absolute minimum . this include explore a pilot sponsorship scheme that aim to support ACRS household and build on the learning from the Home Office community sponsorship scheme and the Homes for Ukraine scheme that prove so successful . as be the case before , the role of the voluntary sector be vital in provide support at a local level . I want to reassure afghan family who remain in Pakistan and other third country , and who be eligible to come to the United Kingdom , that this Government will work night and day to bring they over as quickly and as safely as possible . I recognise the uncertainty that come with live in temporary accommodation . that be why department across Government continue to work at pace , and in step with their local authority and third - sector partner , to provide suitable settle housing solution as quickly as possible . the Prime Minister have ask I to oversee the successful delivery of that operation , and that be exactly what I intend to do . no one know more than I the debt we owe to our afghan partner . we have a collective responsibility to ensure that we continue to support they , as they once support we . I urge local authority leader to engage as much as possible with central Government over the come month , to replicate the collaborative spirit that prove so successful during the hotel exit scheme over the summer , and to ensure that all new arrival to the United Kingdom under those pathway continue to be meet with the warm welcome they deserve . I remain determined to deliver that for the afghan people , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . as this be my first outing at the Dispatch Box in my new role as shadow Minister for Veterans , let I say that the Labour party be proud of our service personnel , our veteran and our armed force community . I also thank my excellent predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , for all her hard work . I will attempt to build on her effort to improve the life of veteran and their family across the UK — I hope I can work with the Minister on that . I pay tribute to all those involve in Operation Pitting , all those who serve alongside our force in Afghanistan , and all those who work to assist they . I thank the Minister for , as he acknowledge , his first oral update on afghan resettlement since September . since then it have be confirm that , unfortunately , Ministers have miss their target to clear the ARAP backlog . thousand be still wait in Pakistan . there be real concern that ARAP and ACRS applicant could be send back to Afghanistan . family be still await permanent accommodation in the UK , and military site , as we have hear , be be use as temporary housing . just today , I understand that the Government have be fine £ 350 , 000 by the Information Commissioner ' s Office for a data breach concern the ARAP scheme . it be hard to feel proud of our record in relation to those event . Britain ' s moral duty to assist these Afghans be feel most fiercely by the UK force they serve alongside . we as a nation give a commitment to those who serve with our force that we would do right by they when they arrive on our shore . I note the Minister ' s comment about the hotel exit plan . will he confirm that zero Afghans have return to bridge hotel since September , and that the contract that he refer to as be " extended " be only for new arrival ? how many new arrival have be place in hotel since September ? the Minister say in his previous statement that " some family have move into temporary accommodation under local authority homelessness provision . that be less than 5 % of the 24 , 600 people we have relocate from Afghanistan . " — [ Official Report , 19 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 1254 . ] that be still over 1 , 000 people register as homeless . what be the figure now ? as the Minister mention , it have be report that the Ministry of Defence have make available 700 service accommodation unit for Afghans . yesterday it be announce that the Government be now use Chickerell Camp near Weymouth to house Afghans who support the UK . how many Afghans be currently in military accommodation , how many MOD site be currently in use for that purpose , and for how long do the Minister expect Afghans to be accommodate in military housing ? the Minister for Armed Forces say on Monday : " there be around 2 , 000 people in Afghanistan who we need to move out and around 1 , 800 leave in Pakistan who we need to bring in . in all , I would expect another 4 , 000 to 4 , 500 arrival . " — [ Official Report , 11 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 635 . ] when do the Minister expect those people to arrive , and where will they be house ? too much of this feel like a saga of failure . it can not continue . life can not remain in limbo , and Afghans can not be put in danger from the Taliban . on behalf of our veteran and member of the armed force , who feel so strongly about this , we must fulfil our duty to they and provide a new and secure life in the UK . I welcome the hon . gentleman to his new post , and on another day I look forward to engage with he across the Dispatch Box on veteran policy . as of 8 December , 215 family remain in temporary accommodation , and as of a few day ago , around 1 , 826 ARAP - entitle personnel be still in Pakistan . that be obviously blend with the ACRS pathway . indeed , a flight of 246 people be arrive today on the ACRS pathway and will be meet by Home Office official . as I say , 70 % of those have be pre - match to house , and we be look to accommodate the remainder and get they into settle accommodation as soon as possible . the red line remain the same : nobody have sleep rough as a result of this policy . we be clearly juggle multiple different dynamic when it come to get people into this country , into temporary transit accommodation so that we do not delay the flow out of Pakistan or Afghanistan , and then into settle accommodation , which be where we all want these people to be . the number be change every day , and I be more than happy to share what they will be . I do not want anybody to be in a hotel for a day long than they want to be , whether in Pakistan or the United Kingdom . I be not really interested in what have happen before ; we be where we be today . I be determined that we will see through our duty to this cohort — both ARAP and acr — and I will turn myself inside out until we get to the place where all entitle personnel be in settle accommodation in the United Kingdom , in line with our commitment . it be a matter of honour and common human decency that we should give these people , who serve we so well in Afghanistan , proper accommodation and a safe refuge here in the United Kingdom . I very much welcome the fact that the Minister be do that for the remain people in Pakistan and Afghanistan . I also welcome the fact that he have be clear that hotel be not the right place for these people to be house , and I be proud that we in Wiltshire be make a significant amount of our empty military accommodation available to they , include 40 in my own constituency , but also a large number across the county . that be a good use for empty military accommodation and I hope it will work extremely well . will the Minister make representation to his colleague in the Home Office that the strength of feeling against the use of hotel for these people stand in some contrast to the Wiltshire golf club hotel , not one mile away from Lyneham , where those people will be house , which be cram to the door with 120 other asylum seeker and refugee of one kind or another ? the Home Office must take step to do what the Minister have do by remove those people from unsuitable hotel accommodation and into decent , permanent accommodation . I thank my hon . friend for his question . Wiltshire Council be one of many local authority across the country — I have a call on Monday with official , and yesterday with council leader , 270 of they across the country — that be part of this real national effort , and I pay tribute to they for their work on this . the operating box that I be within be the afghan cohort , both acr and ARAP - entitle personnel . those in the Home Office be deal with the wide migration issue , and I will let they write to my hon . friend and answer those point in due course . I call the SNP spokesperson . Afghanistan fall to the Taliban in August 2021 , and it should be a source of shame and embarrassment to this government that we be still talk about bring people to safety over two year later . a marker of the failure of the ACRS and the ARAP scheme be that it be know that there be 17 Afghans in every small boat in the channel for every one who have come over on those scheme . when the Government talk about small boat , they know that it be a result of their own failure to deal with and to support Afghans , to whom he say — and I agree — we owe a significant debt of gratitude . can I ask the Minister about his conversation with his counterpart in Pakistan , because it seem very much as if the Government be watch as Pakistan send people back into the hand of the Taliban ? I would like to know what those conversation be . the message go out that he will bring people in Pakistan as quickly and safely as possible will ring hollow to the many constituent who be still in touch with I and desperately afraid for friend and family who be in hiding in Pakistan , wait for a chap at the door . I will return to the case of those people who be perhaps owe a debt of gratitude in the scheme and who have not be successful in apply . the case of the Triples have be call a " disgrace " by General Sir Richard Barrons , because : " it reflect that either we ' re duplicitous as a nation or incompetent . " which of those do the Minister think he be ? on access to service , the Minister talk about £ 28 a person a day . that will barely cover the cost of an interpreter , never mind anything else that people who have experience such trauma may require . it be just not appropriate at all . on the accommodation side of thing , I agree that hotel accommodation be never appropriate for the long term , but I have visit the former Napier barrack , which be also extremely poor quality and not suitable for long - term accommodation , particularly in the depth of winter . how long will people be hold in that accommodation before they can move on to something more suitable ? what support service will be put in place , because I have find they to be completely inadequate ? a constituent of mine have be work since the fall of Afghanistan to get a particular colleague and his family over . he have find it desperately difficult to negotiate the paperwork . as far as I be aware , they have still not be able to bring they over . will the Minister look at that particular case if I write to he ? finally , can he tell we some number ? how many expression of interest be still outstanding ? how many people have be lose contact with or have pass away wait for this incompetent Government to deal with their case ? the hon . member refer to what have happen in the past , and I have be ask to look at this from a clear date in time . since then , I have be work day in , day out to get as many as we possibly can of those to whom we owe a duty back to this country and into settle accommodation . when it come to conversation with Pakistan , I be clear and have have assurance — as have the Home Secretary , the Foreign Secretary and the Chief of the Defence Staff — that these individual will not be deport back to Pakistan . indicate dissent . the hon . member shake her head , but that serious threat be hang over these family . it have not happen , and it be not right to overplay that when official and other be work incredibly hard to make sure that we do not cross that red line for anyone who be entitle to be here in the United Kingdom . she well know it be not £ 28 per day ; that be on top of the £ 7 , 000 a person and the £ 20 , 520 for integration . I be focused on try to solve an incredibly complicated and difficult scenario so that we see through our duty to those to whom we owe it . if there be contribution that will help I do that , I will always listen to they , but I be obviously not go to engage when contribution be just use as a stick to try to beat the Government . I thank the Minister for this statement , and I know he take these matter seriously , as do Members across the House . on Monday , in response to an urgent question , the Minister for Armed Forces , the right hon . member for Wells ( James Heappey ) , say that " certain member of the CF333 and ATF444 taskforce , will not be eligible for relocation under ARAP . " — [ Official Report , 11 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 629 . ] the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs well know , as do I , that the Triples be recruit by the UK , lead by the UK and pay by the UK . by design , they serve shoulder to shoulder alongside we . we owe they a debt of gratitude , and it be a matter of honour . do the Minister share my concern that , base on what the Minister for Armed Forces say on Monday , the ARAP criterion do not guarantee qualification for the Triples ? he will share my concern that many have already be reject , and some undoubtedly already be dead . what more can be do to support the Triples ? I pay tribute to my friend , the hon . member , who I know command one of these unit at a similar time to when I be in Afghanistan , and he have a deep and intimate knowledge of how these taskforce be set up , pay for and fund . it be for the Ministry of Defence and the Minister for Armed Forces to speak about what that Minister say on Monday , but I be clear that we have a duty to these individual . while technically the Minister for Armed Forces be right that they be lead and have direct command chain into the Afghan Government , there will be no attempt whatever from this government to close down avenue for those who serve in 333 and 444 , who the hon . Member personally train and fight alongside . while I recognise the concern , he will know that I will not oversee a scheme that do not do its duty to those he and I serve alongside in Afghanistan , particularly in the 333 and 444 taskforce , . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , but I have to use the opportunity to speak on behalf of my constituent . since travel to the UK as part of operation Pitting in August 2021 , my constituent , who be a military police officer , have be separate from his wife and four child who be unable to travel due to the chaos at Kabul airport . two year on , he have be resettle under ACRS pathway 1 , yet he be still wait for further information on how his family will be resettle . his wife , unfortunately , be receive death threat . he be concerned for their safety , and they be still in Afghanistan . will the Minister meet I to help get clarity on how my constituent ' s family can travel to the UK so that they can get on with their life together ? if the hon . member write to I with that particular case today , I will have a look at it and have an answer for she today . the data breach affect 265 people who work with the UK Government in Afghanistan , for which the MOD be fine by the Information Commissioner ' s Office yesterday , be incredibly serious and could have cost numerous life . we know now that the afghan resettlement scheme , which be set up to support such individual , have have numerous issue from the start , with a number of people be incorrectly categorise as ineligible . I welcome the family who be settle into service accommodation in Leuchars in my constituency , but do the Minister accept that eligibility loophole remain , as eloquently point out by the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) ? will the Minister commit to correct those in the new year , so that we can support all those who be rightly eligible ? I reiterate what I say early : it be a clear red line for I , as it be for this Government . for those who be eligible for those scheme and who be entitle to be in the United Kingdom in settle accommodation , it will happen . we will keep go until we achieve that objective . we stand here in the summer look to get 8 , 500 Afghans out of hotel and into settle accommodation . that be a significant challenge , but we achieve that , and I fully intend to achieve this task , too . I thank the Minister for his statement , but the system be still shambolic . I have a constituent who be a member of the special force who arrive here , but try to get his family here be complete chaos . we be be bounce between the Home Office , Foreign Office and Ministry of Defence . we finally succeed , but the process be not easy . who be actually in charge of this ? the frustration in this case — it be clear that they be eligible for the scheme — be that without my intervention , it perhaps would not have be solve . may I pick up on what the Minister just say to my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) ? be the Minister actually say , in contradiction to what the Minister for Armed Forces say on Monday , that this scheme do apply to the Triples ? the Minister for Armed Forces clearly say that it do not . the two thing that the Minister for Armed Forces be say on Monday be correct . be in a taskforce do not automatically entitle someone to be in the United Kingdom , because while that might initially get they through the eligibility criterion , there may be well - found reason why that individual do not settle into accommodation in the UK , include many different national security reason that have be outline . he be correct to say that , and he be correct to say that the afghan taskforce have an afghan command reporting chain . I be clear about the criterion for ARAP entitlement , and the vast majority of triple - three and triple - four operator should fit within those criterion . if they meet the criterion and deserve to be in the United Kingdom , I will do everything I can to get they here . this be a Government effort ; it be not lead by a single Department . this be a cross - Government issue for the Home Office , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the Ministry of Defence . I have be ask by the Prime Minister to oversee it , and that be what I be do at the moment . I thank the Minister for include the word " integration " in his statement . this weekend I meet a man who be now settle through the ARAP scheme in a permanent home in my constituency after live for over a year in a hotel elsewhere with his family . although he be hugely grateful to the Government , Hounslow London Borough Council and Refugees welcome Hounslow for the support he have have to ensure that he and his family be safe and secure , it be not everything . he be work 16 hour a week in a minimum - wage catering job . he have have no support to find properly pay work that use the skill and experience that the UK value when he work for our specialist service in Afghanistan . as well as provide adequate housing , will the government please ensure that those settle through ARAP and acr get quality support to help they into a future career in this country , so that they can be fully integrate ? I do not accept that this individual will have have no support . there would have be a lot of money and support throw at such individual and community as they come in . there be the £ 20 , 520 integration fund , which be specifically for that purpose . clearly , we be balance different compete pressure when it come to individual get into job and use skill that they have in Afghanistan , and that work continue . that will be stand up again for the process that we stand up in the summer , to make sure that we get people out of hotel and into good , long - term accommodation . I fully accept that there be a job of integration to be do there , and that be what we be work to do , use the voluntary sector , the third sector , local authority and everybody else who be willing to lean into this . my constituent ' s sister and 70 - year - old mother , who be accept on to the acr in January this year , have since be stick in Pakistan alone and be now homeless , with the constant threat of be return to Afghanistan . they can not afford exit visa from Pakistan , and the UNHCR be not currently pay for exit payment . my office have contact the Home Office on several occasion , receive only template response , so will the Minister take a look into this individual case and get back to I as soon as possible ? the hon . Gentleman must be telepathic , because just this morning I have commission work to look at what we can do about visa fee . I do not want an extraordinarily complex and expensive programme set back by have to pay a £ 500 visa exit fee in Pakistan . we be look at how we overcome that , but I be more than happy to look at his individual case as well . I be pleased to hear this week that unused MOD service family accommodation in my constituency be go to be utilise to house afghan family , and that the Government now aim to bring people wait in Pakistan to the UK . the Minister seem to have go some way to unblock the logjam — I be butter he up because I want something . I meet the Prime Minister early this year to ask he to look at rescue afghan woman judge and prosecutor , who have be leave behind in severe danger , yet nothing have happen . we could look at do this through community sponsorship , but in the meantime these woman be at desperate risk . will the Minister meet I in the new year to see if he can help break the logjam on this issue as well ? I will absolutely meet the hon . and learn Lady , because I hope we will soon have something to say on one of these scheme . she can have a look at it when we get to that moment , and then we can meet in January to discuss what else she think we might do . I thank the Minister again for visit Cardiff to meet Afghans live in a hotel in my own constituency . he will know about the constructive approach that be take by Cardiff Council and Vale of Glamorgan Council in work with his Government ' s official to move people into long - term settlement . can he assure I that underuse MOD estate in Wales will be use to the full extent that it can be to support new arrival ? all our local authority be obviously under substantial housing pressure at the moment . they have go above and beyond in give Afghans a very warm welcome . can we make sure that we be use the MOD estate in Wales fully ? yes , of course . I have local authority leader on the phone yesterday , and I know it be frustrating for people if they feel that the MOD have empty property in their area that it can be use . to be clear , the MOD be bend over backwards to try to accommodate as many people as we can . just because a property be empty do not mean that it can be use ; there will be plenty of rotational work go on , plenty of maintenance upkeep and so on . we be strain every sinew to make that happen , and it be happen in Wales as well , but I will continue to work closely with MOD colleague and make sure that we meet this challenge . I thank the Minister for his statement and his clear commitment to honour , in his word , the debt we owe to our afghan veteran . yesterday ' s debate on immigration and those who have enter the country illegally underline the fate of afghan soldier who serve with the UK force and who be soon to be force back to Afghanistan , probably to face certain death . these man , who put their life in danger , seek to find a legal home under the promise give to they . I say this very gently : do the Minister accept that rather than send a message that people travel illegally in boat will have more success than those sign up to the present scheme , we must instead emphasise the need to revisit why so many application be fail while immigration through illegal mean seem the easy and more successful route ? I recognise the challenge with the eligibility process , and people ' s concern and frustration . that be an MOD issue , but as a government we be work together to remedy it and to make sure that we arrive at the correct outcome . anybody who have be to Afghanistan or work with this cohort will know that it be incredibly difficult to identify these people . they have extremely complex family and history . no one be sit there and try to put up barrier to their come to the United Kingdom , but it be right that we be careful and clear when we process application . I have give a commitment to this House , and to the afghan community , that I will keep go until we have see through our duty to every last one of they . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the daughter of my constituent Brendan and Marion Chesterton die of a pulmonary embolism after she be see twice at her GP practice by a physician associate . she be 30 year old and a bud actor in musical theatre . the coroner at her inquest say that Emily should have be immediately refer to a hospital emergency unit and that : " if she have be … the likelihood be that she would have be treat for pulmonary embolism and would have survive . " since I raise serious issue in an Adjournment debate about the way that the physician associate be use in this case , I have see many serious concern raise by doctor about the risk to patient safety from the way that physician associate be be use , yet the Government be plough ahead with their plan for a rapid increase in the number of physician associate in the NHS . I understand that today the Government will lay or have lay an order in Council — the Anaesthesia Associates and Physician Associates Order 2023 — which amend the Health Act 1999 to regulate physician associate via the General Medical Council . there be a real and widespread concern among doctor about the risk of regulate physician associate as if they be doctor , which they be not . have there be any indication from the Health and Social Care Secretary that she intend to make a statement on this matter ? there be a real concern that this be too important an issue to be deal with by delegate legislation . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her point of order and for give I notice of it . she raise whether a statement be likely to be make . I certainly have have no indication from the government that they intend to make an oral statement on this matter . I note that the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , the right hon . member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) , make a write ministerial statement on Monday , and I understand that there will be further opportunity to scrutinise the draft legislation to which she refer . she be an experienced Member of the House , and I be sure she know how she can contribute to that process . if not , I know that the Table Office will give her advice . I think we will leave it at that . bill present Government of Wales ( referendum on Devolution ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Rob Roberts present a Bill to make provision for a referendum on devolution in Wales ; to provide that no further such referendum may take place within twenty five year ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 137 ) . immigration and Nationality Fees ( Exemption for NHS Clinical Staff ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Rob Roberts present a Bill to exempt NHS clinical staff from the requirement to pay fee under section 68 of the Immigration Act 2014 ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 138 ) . Welfare benefit ( Adequacy , Debt and deduction ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) David Linden present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the potential merit of prohibit the making of deduction from certain social security benefit within the first six month of a claim , of restrict the making of deduction in case where a claimant be at risk of hardship , of reduce the maximum proportion of a claim that may be deduct , and of change the priority order in which debt repayment be recover by deduction ; to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the adequacy of the rate at which social security benefit be pay ; to require the Secretary of State to publish a strategy for increase the availability of free debt and money advice for people claim social security benefit ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 49 ) . Finance Bill Second read [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on 29 November 2023 , on the Autumn Statement 2023 , HC 286 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the afternoon of 28 November 2023 , on the Autumn Statement 2023 , HC 286 ; and oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the morning of 28 November 2023 , on the Autumn Statement 2023 , HC 286 . ] I must inform the House that the reason amendment in the name of Drew Hendry have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . before I start the debate , I should declare , to avoid any potential conflict or perception of conflict , that , with reference to my previously publish entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my ministerial interest , I have recuse myself from make ministerial decision on issue relate to pillar two , which will be deal with more than ably by the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Stamford ( Gareth Davies ) . my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer deliver an autumn statement with a clear intention to strengthen the economy now and for the future . the Government propose to do that by put money back in people ' s pocket and cut taxis . the Finance Bill that we be debate today do just that . first , it support british business by allow they to invest for less , which will encourage innovation and enhance productivity . secondly , its measure will improve and simplify our tax system , which will ensure that it be fit for purpose . the Bill cover 36 different measure in total , some of which be more complex than other . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will be pleased — or perhaps displeased — to know that I do not intend to cover every one in detail in this opening speech . I would like to focus on some of the key theme and measure . I will first detail the Bill ' s measure to support british business . the Government understand the simple truth that a strong private sector drive economic growth . that growth in turn serve the public good by allow the Government to invest in public service . perhaps most importantly , it allow the Government to support the most vulnerable . that understanding have shape our approach . that be why we be lower business taxis : because it will incentivise investment and boost private sector growth . the Bill ' s first measure to achieve that will make full expensing permanent , allow business to invest for less . as a result , the UK ' s plant and machinery capital allowance will increase . it be effectively a tax cut to company of over £ 10 billion a year — the most generous of any major economy . the benefit to the economy of the policy — just this measure alone — be that it will drive 0 . 1 % gdp growth over the next five year , increase to almost 0 . 2 % in the long run , and it will unlock an additional £ 3 billion of investment per year . that be only one of many Government policy back british business . the Government also recognise the important role of research and development in drive both innovation and economic growth as well as the benefit it can bring to society as a whole . therefore , we will merge two government programme : the research and development expenditure credit scheme and the small or medium enterprise scheme . that will have two key impact : it will simplify the system and provide great support for UK firm to drive innovation . those change will apply from April 2024 onwards . the support do not stop there . the Government will also introduce great support for loss - make R & d - intensive sme . we will also lower the R & D intensity threshold require to access that to 30 % . that will help about 5 , 000 extra sme , and they will receive £ 27 per £ 100 of qualify R & D invest . let we be in no doubt that this be a major boost for innovator across the UK . these measure significantly increase support to R & D firm to about £ 280 million a year by 2028 - 29 , and overall they will ensure the success of UK plc . I will now outline the next measure to back british business . the Government will extend the sunset clause for two more programme : the enterprise investment scheme and the venture capital trust scheme . both will be extend to 6 April 2035 . that will support young company to raise capital for successful growth . the Government applaud our world - lead creative sector — after all , it grow 1 . 5 time fast than GDP between 2010 and 2019 . in response , a new measure to back british business will go even far through reform tax relief to refundable expenditure credit for the film , tv and video game industry . I be pleased to hear the Minster outline support that the Government be give to the creative industry , which secure thousand of job around the UK , and particularly in the north - west of England , where we have see a huge creative hub develop . do he agree that it be not just about job , though ? it be also about soft power , which the creative industry ensure go right around the world , with great british tv and film . do he also agree that we want to see that continue ? yes . my hon . friend make an important point . the job and economic activity be hugely important , but we be know throughout the world for excelling in the creative sector — we always have , and we always will . we can all be proud of the incredible creative talent in the UK . he be also right to highlight how it be spread right across the UK . the Minister be talk about creative industry , and the hon . member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) talk about soft power , but I wonder whether the Minister will get on to the change to other cultural tax relief include in the Bill . among other propose change , the Bill will remove european economic area expenditure from qualifying cost for orchestral tax relief from next April . that will result in a significant long - term cut for orchestra that tour Europe frequently . do he not see that orchestra tax relief — an important cultural tax relief — be work as it be and should not be amend to the detriment of those orchestra , which should be support ? the hon . Lady make an important point about the success of our creative industry , and particularly the music industry and orchestra . she will be well aware , though , that we be not in the European Union any more , so some of the EEA measure no long apply . instead , we have to be World Trade Organisation - compliant . that bring some challenge , but we be certainly there to support the industry across a whole range of measure . I have already mention some of they , but we be do even more with target measure to support the sector , because we want to boost investment in three other area : animate film , animate tv and child ' s tv programme . as a result , those will be eligible for a 5 % uplift to a 39 % credit rate . the Association of British Orchestras have warn that , for some orchestra , the propose change to orchestral tax relief risk make european tour financially unviable . give the financial and administrative burden that the Government have already force on orchestra through their botched Brexit deal , it seem ludicrous to create more difficulty for orchestra that be tour , especially as orchestra tax relief be work fine as it be . do the Minister not accept — I know that he have have evidence on this — that the change be unnecessary and damaging to orchestra ? as I outline , I think the hon . Lady be hope for measure to turn back the clock to when we be in the EU . we be not in the EU any more , and therefore the world be a different place . however , we be always keen to support and engage with the creative industry , and orchestra in particular . when I be at the Department for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport , we raise those issue again and again — actually , with considerable success — to enable orchestra and tourer to get across Europe , often by do individual deal with individual country , which we sometimes have to do now that we be no long in the European Union . I will now outline measure to support our employment - boost agenda . the path to achieve this be clear : we must remove both barrier to work and incentive not to work . perhaps most of all , though , we must ensure that hard work be reward . that be why our spring Budget announcement be so important . let we take the abolition of the lifetime allowance . the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that that will retain 15 , 000 worker annually and the Bill complete that change by remove the lifetime allowance from the statute book completely . I now turn to the measure to simplify our tax system . complex and inefficient taxis be one of the big restriction on business . they often come at a high cost in term of both time and capital . it be the Government ' s duty to deliver a modern , simple tax system and the measure in the Bill will help to do just that . make full expensing permanent be a huge simplification for large firm , but we be go far by expand the cash basis for over 4 million small grow trader . this will simplify the process to calculate their profit and pay income tax . we have also listen closely to feedback from business and , as a result of that consultation , some of the main restriction on use the cash basis will be remove . the simple cash basis will be the default method for calculate profit , and business will therefore start on the simple regime as standard . we will also be take forward other technical small measure . those will include improve the datum that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs collect from its customer . these measure will result in a trust modern tax administration system . we must also build a tax system that be fair and work for everyone . we can not understate the role of tax in support our public service . taxis pay for they directly and , through attract investment , indirectly . we must all fairly play our part . the Bill will make promote tax avoidance a crime in circumstance where person continue to promote a scheme after the receipt of a stop notice . it will also enable HMRC to act more quickly to tackle promoter of tax avoidance by introduce a new power for HMRC to bring disqualification action against the director of company involve in promote tax avoidance . we will also reduce the scope for tax fraud in the construction industry by amend the construction industry scheme . the amendment will add vat to the gross payment status test . this mean two thing : that compliance will now be check as part of this process , and that HMRC power to remove gross payment status will be enhance . of course , it be only fair that we also guard against over - collection of tax . the Bill address a concern here , too . it will do so by enable HMRC to reduce the off - payroll work PAYE liability of a deemed employer who be responsible for ensure that PAYE be calculate and send to HMRC correctly . this will apply where that engagement be incorrectly treat as self - employ for tax purpose . it also remain important that we be in lockstep with our international partner during such unprecedented time . in spring , we legislate to implement OECD pillar two in the UK , build on the historic agreement build by the Prime Minister , to a two - pillar solution to the tax challenge of a globalise digital economy . in the Bill , we be make technical amendment to the main pillar two rule identify from stakeholder consultation . that be to ensure that the UK remain consistent with the late internationally agree guidance . the Bill build on the autumn statement that focus on the long - term growth of the UK economy and sound economic policy . what a contrast to labour ' s fantasy economic , include £ 28 billion per year of additional spending without any idea where that money will come from — although we all know at heart that it will be taxpayer or through more debt , which be , of course , just defer taxation . in contrast , this Finance Bill back british business , reward hard work , and support a modern and simple tax system . in do so , it deliver on the Government ' s commitment to prioritise economic growth , encourage business investment , nurture innovation and simplify our tax system to combat tax avoidance . for those reason , I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . after 13 long year of the Conservatives in power , it be clear that , no matter what they try to do or say , they can not escape the reality of their record in office . that reality be one of people across Britain be bad off , public service collapse , and a conservative party that put its own interest before the country ' s . we now have a govern party barely able to govern and a Prime Minister barely able to lead , but at least the Chancellor be still follow the Prime Minister ' s example by try to emulate his reverse Midas touch . frankly , whenever the Chancellor talk about get the economy grow , the country be push in the opposite direction . in his speech three week ago , he use the phrase " autumn statement for growth " seven time , and what do we see ? the growth forecast for next year cut by more than half , cut again the year after that , and cut yet again the year after that . it seem that the Financial Secretary be get in on the act , too . today , he talk about what he have be do to support growth , and what do we see ? figure out today confirm that the UK economy contract unexpectedly in October , with GDP fall by 0 . 3 % . it be not just in relation to growth that the reverse Midas touch apply . last month , the Prime Minister say : " I want to cut taxis , I believe in cut taxis . " but what have we see ? even after all the change the Government have announce , the tax burden be still on track to be the high since the second world war . the truth be that after 13 year of failure on the economy , the Conservatives be incapable of get our country back on track . after 13 year , they do not have the determination or the plan to get we out of this doom loop where growth be low , taxis be high , public service be collapse and family be bad off . only Labour ' s plan will bring stability and responsibility back to our public finance , give family the security they need and reform our public service for the future . only Labour be ready to work with business day in , day out to get our economy grow , to create good job for the future and to make people across Britain well off . there be a number of individual measure in the Bill that we have be call for for some time ; we will not oppose its Second reading , and we look forward to consider it in detail in Committee . however , it be clear that the Bill and the autumn statement it follow be simply the late chapter in 13 long year of Conservatives fail to get the economy grow and make work people well off . it be sobering and frankly staggering that , as the Resolution Foundation set out follow the autumn statement , real average weekly earning be now set to remain below their 2008 level until 2028 . that be two full decade of pay stagnation . that be what happen when the Government can not find a plan for growth that work . to be fair , it be not for want of try . the " autumn statement for growth " be the 11th attempt at an economic growth plan we have see from the Conservatives . the problem be that the Conservatives simply do not have the idea we need for our time , nor the focus on the country that the british people deserve from their government . as conservative mp meet behind close door to plot their next leadership election , family across Britain be feed up of struggle and be squeeze , business yearn for stability and certainty , and our country miss out on the chance to fulfil its potential . of course , people across Britain be feel the hit not just from growth be weak and inflation more persistent than in similar country , but from the 25 tax rise the Conservatives have already push through in this Parliament alone . there be , however , one small group of people who will continue to be protect from this Government ' s tax rise on much of their income . that group of people be non - dom : those who live in Britain but do not pay UK taxis on their income from overseas . as we have long say , Labour believe it be only fair that if a person make Britain their home , they should pay their taxis here . close the non - dom loophole — replace that archaic status with a residence scheme like other country have — could raise crucial funding to bring the NHS waiting list down . yet today we have another Finance Bill from this government that leave the loophole open . the Government be continue to help a few at the top to avoid pay their fair share of tax when they keep their money overseas , while let family across the UK face a tax burden that be climb to a post - war high . whatever the Government say , that be the reality face work people in Britain . as the Resolution Foundation point out , any cut to personal taxation announce in the autumn statement pale in comparison with previously announce tax rise through the freezing of national insurance and income tax threshold . the Resolution Foundation conclude that the combined effect be an average tax rise of £ 1 , 200 per household , with almost every single person in the country who pay income tax or national insurance pay high taxis overall . across all taxis that the Government levy , the Resolution Foundation point out that " despite the tax cutting rhetoric , the reality be that the tax burden be rise , with tax receipt as a share of the economy set to reach 37 . 7 per cent in 2028 / 29 , the high level in 80 year . " that be the reality from which the conservative can not hide . my hon . friend be make a great speech . he have be talk about the tax burden , and I raise the subject of cultural tax relief early . another change in orchestra tax relief be that eligibility require 10 % of expenditure to be on good or service that be use or consume in the UK , rather than be incur in the UK . the Association of British Orchestras have say that there be a lack of clarity about what orchestra will now be able to claim . this level of uncertainty be very unfair on UK orchestra , which have be through a turbulent time as a result of Brexit , covid and the cost of living crisis . will my hon . friend agree to raise that point with the Minister in Committee , to obtain some clarity and to enable member to consider what these change be do ? I appreciate that the subject be too complicated to be deal with at this point . I thank my hon . friend for raise that point ; she be a great champion for orchestra . it be only right , when we consider the detail of the Bill in Committee , for we to push the Government to provide the certainty that be so often lack from many of the measure that they propose . I be talk about the reality from which the conservative can not hide . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , who be present , have be desperately try to claim that the tax burden be go down . three week ago , she claim that " taxis for the average worker have go down by £ 1 , 000 . " — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 360 . ] two week ago , she claim : " taxis for the average worker will have go down by £ 1 , 000 since 2010 . " — [ Official Report , 30 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 1084 . ] however , analysis conduct by the House of Commons Library make it very clear that national insurance and income tax for the median earner will rise by well over £ 1 , 000 — up from £ 6 , 112 in 2010 - 11 to £ 7 , 364 in 2024 - 25 . in an attempt to understand the tension between the Chief Secretary ' s comment and the Library analysis , I write to she and also table write parliamentary question . the Financial Secretary respond to both the letter and the question with rather more careful wording , say that " an average worker in 24 - 25 will pay over £ 1 , 000 less in personal taxis than they otherwise would have do . " he be careful to make it clear that the Government ' s " calculation be on a same - year basis against a counterfactual " , and that this be not , in fact , a comparison over time , as that " would include the effect of earning growth on cash total of tax due " . I wonder whether the Chief Secretary ' s statement that tax for the average worker have " go down by £ 1 , 000 " may have inadvertently mislead the House , give that her colleague ' s write response to I tacitly admit that the Government ' s statistic do not refer to the actual taxis that a worker pay . when the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury respond to the debate , perhaps he will tell we if he know whether the Chief Secretary would like to correct the record . whatever the Conservatives say — however they twist and turn — the truth be that people across Britain be feel the squeeze , and life be very different from the picture that minister be desperately try to paint . I have already make it clear that we support a number of the individual measure in the Bill . we welcome , for instance , the measure in clause 1 to make full expensing permanent ; we have be call for that for some time . welcome as it be , however , it simply can not make up for the year of uncertainty that business have face . when I meet business across the country , they be clear that they want stability , certainty and a long - term plan , but even during the time for which I have be shadow Financial Secretary — a period that have see five different incumbent of the office that I shadow — business taxation and relief have be chop and change every year . let we take the annual investment allowance . at the start of this Parliament , it have be raise to £ 1 million on a temporary basis . that temporary basis be extend first by the Finance Act 2021 and again by the Finance Act 2022 , and be then make permanent by the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 . during that time , of course , the super - deduction , which Members may recall , come and go entirely , and last year full expensing for expenditure on plant or machinery be introduce — but , again , only on a temporary basis for three year , before be amend yet again this year to be make permanent . frankly , while the late Treasury Ministers may say that full expensing be now permanent , how long any policy under this Government may last seem to be decide by the Conservatives ' internal battle rather than what be right for the country . the hon . Member have say that Labour will support the Bill today , and I welcome that , but I have be do some calculation . do he agree that if Labour remain committed to their £ 28 billion borrowing plan , debt will soar and they will break their own fiscal rule ? the hon . Gentleman be desperate to make an intervention about fiscal responsibility , when just a year ago his party crash the economy and send interest rate soar , and work family throughout the country be still pay the price . we on this side of the House take fiscal responsibility seriously . we want to have a fiscal lock in place , we want to get debt fall , and we want to get the economy grow . that be the difference between we and the Conservatives . clause 2 contain measure on research and development . in Committee we will probe the impact of those change in great detail , but it be clear straightaway that stability and certainty have be lack here as well . we need only look at the change in the current Parliament ' s Finance act . the Finance Act 2020 raise the rate of the R & D expenditure credit from 12 % to 13 % . the Finance Act 2021 make change to the amount of R & D tax credit that small and medium - sized enterprise could claim . the Finance Act 2023 again change the rate of R & D tax relief , and that same year the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 make yet further change to how the relief operate . now , of course , the Finance Bill before we introduce a whole new regime . business make investment decision yearn for stability and certainty , but after 13 year in office , the Government be prove themselves incapable of provide those crucial foundation for success . we acknowledge , of course , that the tax legislation in Finance Acts need to be keep update , and that some change be not only inevitable but important in enable legislation to function well . however , with this government it be hard to avoid the sense that change be be make without a long - term plan in mind . it look very much as if there have be no long - term plan for capital allowance or research and development relief , and the same be true of tackle tax avoidance and evasion . although we welcome any measure to tackle tax avoidance and evasion , again there have be a busy history of legislation in this Parliament alone . the Finance Act 2020 make change to the general anti - abuse rule , introduce to deter taxpayer from use tax avoidance scheme . that be follow by more change to the rule in the Finance Act 2021 , alongside other change to the legislation cover avoidance . in the Finance Act 2022 , a further round of change be make to the legislation relate to avoidance , include on HMRC ' s publication of information about avoidance scheme . now , in 2023 , we see the late set of change to the rule and penalty in respect of avoidance and evasion . while we will consider the detail of those change in Committee , it be already clear that a long - term plan be very hard to see . stability and certainty be crucial foundation when business be make decision about where to invest and where to create job . we in the opposition hear that from business leader day in , day out , across all sector and in all part of our economy . we know how much damage be do to economic growth and people ' s standard of living when that stability and certainty be not there . we see that at its most extreme last autumn , when the Conservatives crash the economy and trash their reputation in a matter of day , through a reckless disregard for our economic institution and for work people ' s security . but it be not just about last autumn ; it be about 13 year of conservative government . it be about the inability of the Conservatives to provide the stability , the certainty and the plan for the future that business and our economy need . if we have crash the economy and we do not have a long - term plan , why be you vote with we today ? [ interruption . ] yes , Madam Deputy Speaker , I take that question to be address to I rather than to you . we have make it clear that when it come to the measure in the Bill for which we have be call for some time , we welcome and will support they . we would not oppose measure that we have be call for . however , give the Government ' s chop and change year on year from one Finance Act to the next , it be desperately clear that there be no evidence of a long - term plan over the past 13 year , and no evidence of the plan that we need for the future . I hope that in a general election , when business and work people across the country look at the Conservative party and at the Labour party and ask themselves who have a plan to grow the economy and make work people well off , they will conclude that it be we . may I make a further point about cultural tax relief ? it seem to I that there be not quite enough understanding of the importance of this subject on the Government Benches . international touring be vital to the survival of many orchestra and make up a fifth of earn income . that be a substantial proportion . my hon . friend have talk of the change that have be make , and all the flip - flopping . there be a strong economic and strategic case for incentivising touring in the european economic area for UK orchestra , because it boost cultural export and enhance the UK ' s place on the world stage . that do not apply only to film and video , which the Minister have mention ; our orchestra be world - class too . there be a move to limit the cultural tax relief , include orchestra tax relief . I be grateful to my hon . friend for say that that will be review in Committee , but the key issue be the continue importance of those cultural relief , and what the Minister have say today do not convince I that he understand that . I therefore fully support what my hon . friend be say . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention on that point , and we will certainly raise question on her behalf in Committee to try to get clarity from the Government . as she rightly point out , clarity and certainty have be distinctly lack from this Government over a whole range of topic . we will certainly press they on that in Committee . as I be say in response to the hon . member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) , we will not be oppose many of the individual measure in the Bill , include those on capital expensing , on research and development and on tax avoidance and evasion , but they all serve to remind we just how much of a merry - go - round this Government have become and just how much they lack a plan for the future . a plan for the future be what have be sorely miss from this Finance Bill and from the autumn statement , and it be clear that the Conservatives be now incapable of offer one . with no stability , no real certainty and no plan for growth that work , business be leave without the partner in Government that they need , and without the growth that our economy need , work people be leave bad off , with the tax burden set to rise to a peacetime high . if Labour win the next general election , we will overhaul and accelerate the planning system , modernise our electricity grid , attract far great private investment , scrap and replace business rate , set out a road map for business taxation and boost skill and training across the country . we will do all that to get the economy grow and to make work people well off . that be the change our country need . without change , we would have a fifth term of the Conservatives , and what on earth would that mean for Britain ? what would the Conservatives speak of as their achievement in this Parliament ? twenty - five tax rise , the high tax burden in eight decade , taxis up £ 1 , 200 per household and two decade of pay stagnation , as well as a fall in real household disposable income — the first time that have ever happen in a Parliament . that be the record of the Conservatives . that be what they can not hide from and that be why it be time for change . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . what an extraordinary experience that be . I have just listen for nearly 20 minute to the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) rant on about tax hike , but at the same time not propose a single concrete economic policy . indeed , Opposition Members have go entirely awol . where be they ? there be no one on the Opposition Benches this afternoon . they be not go to oppose a single measure in this Finance Bill . I have scour Wikipedia for any policy they might have come up with on taxation , and all I have find be that they be propose an additional £ 28 billion in borrowing . that be simply more taxis for our child and grandchild to pay in the future . I have also spot that the opposition have two additional new taxis that they think would be a good idea . those two taxis be the one that be outline by the shadow spokesman . the first be the non - dom taxation , which analysis show would actually result in a net subtraction in tax revenue to the UK economy . furthermore , they be propose that we should be the only country in the world that tax education , with a tax that would increase the cost to the state and again fail to pay for itself . so that be my scour of Wikipedia . I be now go to move on from discuss the opposition rant to talk about the excellent point that the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) have make . rise — I will give way to the hon . Lady . I be stand in part to illustrate that I be here , because the hon . Lady just say that there be nobody on this side of the House . well , here I be , and I have be intervene on both the open speech , so I hope she will take that back . also , could she clarify what she be talk about when she mention a tax on education ? the hon . Lady be the honourable exception that prove my rule . she be indeed engage thoroughly in the debate from the void that be the Opposition Benches this afternoon . the tax on education be her party ' s Front - Bench policy to add vat to school fee . she may not be aware of that policy , but it be not a good one and I recommend that she use her influence to get her Front Bench to drop it . let I turn to the excellent remark make by the Financial Secretary to the Treasury . it be the view of the Treasury Committee that the tax system in the UK be far too complicated . we be concern early this year , as we mention in our report , about the abolition of the Office for Tax Simplification , because we want to see the Treasury team look at more way in which it can simplify the tax system . we also publish a report on tax relief that identify more than 1 , 000 tax relief in our tax system , many of whose impact or cost to the Exchequer the Treasury do not even know . they really should be think of as expenditure line , and they should be look at a bit more carefully . some of the step announce in these measure , and indeed in last week ' s National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill , will do some good in that regard , and I want to highlight those . in relation to what the hon . Member be say about national insurance , would she like to comment on the fact that , overall , the rich fifth of household will be £ 1 , 000 well off on average by 2027 whereas the low fifth be set to gain only £ 200 . do that make it the progressive autumn statement that have be claim ? I can also attest to the fact that the hon . Lady be the second Labour Back Bencher in the Chamber . that bring the total to the two who be visible to I at this time on the Opposition Benches — [ interruption . ] I think that the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) be also provide the shadow Parliamentary private Secretary role . national insurance be indeed a terrible regressive tax as it stand and I wholeheartedly endorse any measure that reduce that burden and simplify thing . the hon . Lady have point out that this be work in progress , but I think she should welcome the abolition of class 2 national insurance . that have simplify the national insurance system , and in the spring Budget we have the welcome simplification of the lifetime allowance charge . we also have a great simplification in childcare entitlement with the announcement of a much wide offer of free childcare . these simplification have be broadly welcome . there be far welcome simplification in this Finance Bill . the Financial Secretary to the Treasury be kind enough to write to I yesterday to summarise his principle for the simplification of the tax system . he want tax rule that " have a clear consistent rationale " . he want it to be " easy for taxpayer to get their tax right " . he want taxpayer to be able to understand what they need to do " at key life cycle point " , and he want a tax policy that " do not … distort the decision of taxpayer and result in poorly inform choice . " in summary , the Government want " the tax system to be simple , fair and to support growth . " the Financial Secretary ' s letter , which we will be publish on the Treasury Committee website this afternoon , also outline further simplification , which be in the remark he make early . they include expand the cash basis for small business , improve the design of make Tax Digital , simplify research and development tax credit , which we welcome , and simplify capital allowance and make they more permanent . I will draw to the House ' s attention to other measure for individual that he do not highlight . there be an increase in " the threshold for individual with income tax through pay as you earn to file a Self Assessment return to £ 150 , 000 " . that be important because more and more people would otherwise be catch by the freezing of the threshold . from April 2024 , that threshold will be abolish altogether . there be also simplification for individual saving account in this Finance Bill , as well as measure to simplify custom process . I think the Financial Secretary ' s heart be in the right place on simplification , and there be no question but that R & D tax credit be be abuse . I draw the Financial Secretary ' s attention to future opportunity for simplification while welcome the fact that venture capital tax relief be be extend to 2035 , as the Treasury Committee call for in our report . I would love to see the financial Secretary focus on the unintended disincentive to take on additional work and additional hour that exist throughout the tax system , at all sort of income point . we have make huge stride on simplify it for people on universal credit , make every extra hour of work pay , but once people get into the tax system , there be cliff edge and high marginal tax rate that deter they from work more . I will highlight two in particular . first , the Treasury Committee be currently hold an inquiry on " Sexism in the City , " and we have have evidence on how we could improve some of those marginal tax rate . the child benefit taper be introduce 10 year ago with my wholehearte support . it be the right thing to do in 2013 , but it be now time to look again at how it interact with the free childcare offer . we should consider the opportunity for simplify the tax system by get rid of the taper altogether , as it be a terrible deterrent to the family who get catch . a person with a lot of child , earn between £ 50 , 000 and £ 60 , 000 , can have a marginal tax rate of over 100 % . it have become far too complex , and it be deter many woman from take on more work . with the childcare offer we now have , it be time to look again . I also want to throw the evidence from our " Sexism in the City " inquiry into the mix . the City have the high pay and , indeed , the high pay gap in the country . some of the well pay career for woman be in financial service , but we hear time and again that , because of the tax - free childcare cut - off at £ 100 , 000 , some woman be choose to work less than a full week . the freezing of the threshold be have side effect . as the Financial Secretary think ahead to next year ' s fiscal event , I urge he to consider those two potential simplification . I call the SNP spokesperson . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House , while approve the change to taxation of tobacco in the Finance Bill and full expensing be make permanent , decline to give the Bill a second reading because it fail to make a much - need reduction in vat for the hospitality and tourism sector , and fail to introduce measure through the tax system that would help alleviate poverty . " it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Treasury Committee , on which I serve , even though she be at odd with the London School of Economics and the University of Warwick on non - dom status — we might return to that later . the problem with this Bill be not so much what be in it but what be not in it . for example , full expensing be be make permanent , which be laudable and be to be support , but the Minister and , indeed , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) do not mention that choice be be make that fail to support family , that make people poor and that reduce community resilience and sustainability , which be no way to grow an economy . there be no mention of tackle the grow cost of living crisis that people face every day . there be nothing on rent , mortgage , food bill and , most of all , energy cost , as we go deeply into winter . the Minister be an affable person , but he have a brass neck as wide as the Dispatch Box to say that the Government be look to invest in public service — I will come back to that in a moment . today , the Bank of England have tell we that the proportion of mortgage balance in which the borrower be behind on payment be the large in six year . the SNP ask for direct help for people : a £ 400 energy bill rebate , a social tariff on energy , a low price cap , mortgage interest tax relief and help for tourism business through vat adjustment . of course , there could have be much more , but we get none of that from the Chancellor or from this place . instead , the Government turn a deaf ear to the inflationary cost for household , in addition to starve the public sector of fund . council in England be already go bust : Labour - control Birmingham , Hackney , Croydon and Slough ; Conservative - control Northamptonshire and Thurrock ; and Lib Dem - control Woking . the Local Government Association say that one in five council — 60 of they — be at risk of issue a section 114 notice , but the Chancellor , while do nothing to help family , be slash public sector spending . Richard Hughes , from the Office for Budget Responsibility , have point out that there be £ 19 billion of public sector cut come : " the real spending power of Government department in England go down by about £ 19bn over the forecast period " . the Chancellor have also freeze capital spending , which have a direct negative impact on the spending available in Scotland . when Labour be ask what it would do differently , we hear only silence . there be no attempt by this place to protect public service . Scotland ' s block grant have , over the past few year , be cut by 17 % in real term compare with 2010 — the House of Commons Scrutiny Unit have give those figure . we all know that inflation run at 4 . 7 % — do not forget that it be much high last year , at 11 . 1 % — mean that any increase be dwarf by inflation , so when Scotland ' s block grant increase by just 1 . 4 % next year , it be wipe out before it touch the side . this be a savage real - term cut for Scotland . the Office for Budget Responsibility have say that living standard will be 3 % low in 2024 - 25 than they be before the pandemic , which be the large reduction in living standard and the high tax burden since the 1950 . there be zero growth forecast for the economy . the GDP figure from the Office for National Statistics show that for the three month to October 2023 there be no growth , and the economy actually contract in October . David Bharier from the British Chambers of Commerce say that this " confirm the low - to - no growth cycle the UK economy be in . " that , of course , take we directly to the choice that this Government and this place have take since Brexit . labour , the Conservatives and the Lib Dems support Brexit , so the self - harm continue to cause difficulty . the UK suffer a broad - base fall in both openness and competitiveness between 2019 and 2021 . UK trade fall by 8 % , compare with 2 % in France . that be not my description ; it come from the London School of Economics . our industry face severe challenge due to the Westminster - inflict harm of Brexit , yet this place can not point to a single benefit , beyond a make - up line about vaccine . Workforce shortage in tourism , hospitality , the NHS and care have all dramatically increase since Brexit — a Brexit that Scotland reject and continue to reject . yet for the people of Scotland , Westminster continue to show indifference . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have point out that the 2p cut to national insurance in the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill be almost entirely eat up by frozen tax threshold , due to what be know as fiscal drag . basically , this Government be give with one hand and take away with the other . we have see nothing on energy bill , which be due to rise again in January ; nothing on food bill , while country such as France and Canada take action ; nothing on mortgage , on which the Government could have deliver some relief ; and nothing to reduce vat in a range of area , where the Government could have take action to help people and to ease inflation at the same time . although certain measure , such as full expensing be make permanent , be welcome , the big problem with this Bill be what it fail to address , and that be to help million of household that be struggle with the cost of living . this place should have introduce a UK - wide version of the scottish child payment to help family . it should have introduce a £ 400 energy bill rebate and a social tariff , and it should have provide for a household essential guarantee . the Government could have address unfair tax loophole by abolish the non - dom tax status . as I say , the University of Warwick and the London School of Economics reckon that would raise £ 3 . 6 billion per year . the Government could have do that and they could have decide to put a tax on share buy - back , but instead they decide to set their sight on ill and disabled people , tell they to get back to work . it be worth remember that , accord to research in 2015 by the University of Liverpool and the University of Oxford , old - style incapacity assessment be " associate with " an extra 590 suicide across England between 2010 and 2013 . this be a scandalous thing to bring to people at this time . positive Money have note that a windfall tax on the profit of the big four bank could have raise £ 20 billion in the first six month of this year , but the Government choose to do nothing . the autumn statement deliver the bad - case scenario for Scotland and for our people . we need proper funding for public service , but instead we face massive cut — the health funding announce represent just 0 . 01 % of the budget for 2024 - 25 . we need immediate help for people in our energy - rich country to pay for some of the high energy bill across the nation of the UK . by contrast , the SNP Scottish Government have ensure that people in Scotland pay less council tax than those in England , and we have freeze council tax for the next year in order to assist with the cost of living crisis . at the moment , people do not have to pay prescription charge or tuition fee , and they do not have to pay for eye test . under - 22s and over - 60 do not pay for bus travel . we also have the scottish child payment and much more . in Scotland , we have use the limited social security power we have to provide dignity , respect and support for people . those be manifestation of the value of a progressive Government look at every opportunity to help people who be struggle . imagine what would happen to all of that for the people of Scotland if this place have control of all of those issue , as Labour and Conservative Members want to happen . the Scottish Government be use all the lever at their disposal to help people through this cost of living crisis , but the implication of this Westminster fiscal event be clear ; with the current reliance on Westminster for our capital grant allowance and limited borrowing power , this place be stamp its austerity on Scotland . the path for Scotland be ever clear : we need to be an independent country , to rejoin the EU and to have the ability to look after our own people . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . let I start by declare an interest in relation to clause 15 , as I believe I be one of the Members who manage to discriminate against themselves via pension change a decade ago and therefore will benefit from the tax change in this Bill . I should therefore perhaps not touch on that any far . overall , there be nothing to oppose in the Bill . I will break the habit of this debate and try to speak about the Bill , rather than stuff that be not in it or might have be in it . I will try to address some of the clause it contain . clause 1 deal with the full expensing of expenditure on plant and machinery , a matter I raise in the debate on the autumn statement . I welcome the measure , which I hope will work to encourage great capital investment across the UK economy . however , we should not underestimate how fundamental a change in our tax system that measure be . we have build , over decade , a series of rule on how company — and individual too , but we be talk about company for this purpose — get tax relief on the capital spend they make . a large amount of work have to go into track what be count as revenue spend and what be count as capital spend , but now there be no point in do that work in respect of plant and machinery , because company be go to get the same tax treatment either way round — so all that can go . then there be all manner of way of get that relief , be it through the main general pool for plant and machinery , the long - life asset pool or the short - life asset pool . we have different rule for car , for environmentally - friendly asset and for environmentally - friendly car . we should take a step back and ask , " be it necessary to keep this whole complicated regime if , for the vast majority of spend , we be give 100 % tax relief in year 1 when that spend happen ? should we now look at strike away a load of that and just accept that we could have a very different regime ? " perhaps we should just accept the account depreciation for all the other asset that be not plant and machinery ? I suspect that the loss to the Exchequer for accelerate tax relief on those thing would be tiny , but it would take away a huge burden of have to follow a different set of rule . we also ought to ask , " what do we mean for building ? " we be now be generous for tax relief on plant and equipment , but not generous at all if a brand - new factory be build . tax relief be give very slowly on that and even then not on the whole spend . be that what we want ? or should we be try to incentivise people to build brand new , modern , energy - efficient factory ? we give very little tax relief for office building . we want more people to come back to work together in office , so should we not be incentivise people to build brand - new office in the right part of the country , rather than give no tax relief ? we end up drive an entire leasing industry , because a completely different tax treatment be give where asset be lease or rent , rather than buy outright in someone ' s own name . do we really intend that if someone finance - lease something , they get 100 % relief up front ? what happen with a hire purchase ? all this stuff be so complicated . have make this radical and expensive change , the Government should go away and think , " what be the future of tax relief for capital item in the UK ? how do we incentivise the right form of spend ? " I wish to raise one other question for the Minister to think about . it be very likely that a lot of business will be unable to get full relief for this in the first year , because they just will not have enough profit to absorb all their capital spend be relieve in a year . the chance of a medium - sized business that buy a multi - million - pound printing press have multi - million - pound profit be low , so it will end up have a loss to carry forward . such a business will get benefit in the fullness of time , but we will have restrict how much of its loss it can carry forward and use — if it be a business of a certain size , it can offset only up to £ 5 million . do we really mean that now ? or do we mean that if a business have spend a load of capital and generate a big loss that be carry forward , it should be able to relieve that as early as possible when it make a profit ? do we need to revisit some of those restriction we have introduce for sensible reason in the past ? I urge the Minister to commission some work , now that he have make this big and expensive change , on what the whole regime should look like . do we need all those hundred of page of rule and all the compliance effort that have to go in , for what will probably now be relatively small amount of tax relief at stake in the grand scheme of thing ? I wish to discuss a few other clause . I wholeheartedly welcome the Bill ' s anti - avoidance clause . it be absolutely right to extend the punishment we give individual who recklessly promote tax avoidance scheme that they ought to know do not work and in many case do know do not work but carry on try to sell . it be entirely reasonable to have the sanction of be able to disbar they from be a company director if they carry on do that . there have be a lot of encouragement for the Government to go far on duty to prevent all manner of economic crime , so I fully welcome these thing . in Committee , we could perhaps think about whether we be sure we have draft that measure perfectly . a lot of tax adviser work through limited liability partnership , but where someone be a member of a limited liability partnership that be promote unacceptable tax avoidance , they will not be catch by these rule because they be not a director of a company that be do it . therefore , such a person will not be disbar from remain as the designated member of an llp , because they be not a director of a company . be that what we mean ? give that llp and their member have to be register with Companies House , should we not broaden that sanction out to catch as many people as possible ? perhaps the Minister would think about whether we could make some extension to this , to ensure that we be catch everyone engage in this industry , not just a small subset of it . clause 21 have further amendment on pillar two ; at time , I think I be the only Back Bencher who support pillar two . I will continue to support it but , as I say a year ago , the rule be fiendishly complicated . anyone who try to read clause 21 and the schedule that come with it will realise they contain an almost impenetrable set of rule for a relatively small number of situation , in relation to a simple principle about subsidiary in tax haven that be pay less than 15 % tax have their tax top up to 15 % , in order to discourage tax haven and the artificial movement of profit . we have end up with a hugely complicated shadow tax regime that every company with subsidiary around the world will have to apply to every subsidiary they have . even if they be in a respectable country with tax rate even high than our , they will have to work out whether they have accidentally manage to trip themselves below that rate . that can not be what we intend , so can we try to find a way to filter out most of this work , so that we can catch the guilty but not make life miserable for the innocent ? with those few remark , I welcome the Bill . the provision be entirely sensible and I look forward to support they . I will have to vote against the SNP amendment , because I want the Bill to proceed today . the Liberal Democrats do not support the Bill . it be a deception from the Government after year of unfair tax hike on hard - work family . the Conservatives talk about tax cut , but there be no tax cut . the autumn statement maintain the Government ' s unfair stealth taxis through the freezing of tax threshold , drag million of people into a high band or into pay tax for the first time . change to national insurance rate will not even touch the side after year of tax hike and spiral mortgage . thank to the Conservatives ' decision to freeze tax threshold , next year someone on a typical salary of £ 35 , 000 will pay an extra £ 400 in tax , and someone earn a middle income of £ 65 , 000 will pay an additional £ 1 , 200 . meanwhile , the typical mortgage will go up by £ 220 per month . nobody be well off after year of this Conservative Government . bad still be the deafen silence on health in the autumn statement . the Government should be use any additional tax revenue to tackle the crisis in our NHS , to give people the quality of care they deserve and to let more people return to work to grow our economy . we can not fix the economy without fix the NHS . OBR growth forecast have be halve , largely because people be wait for nhs treatment . it be a no - brainer that we need to treat the million of people on NHS waiting list and allow they to return to work , but this Conservative Government simply do not care . the Bill offer nothing to household struggle amid the cost of living crisis . it fail to introduce a proper windfall tax on the super - profit of oil and gas producer . that revenue could be use to fund energy support for the most vulnerable , such as double the warm home discount and launch a proper home insulation scheme . it could also be use to invest in british farmer , to bring down food price for the long term . the Bill fail to reverse tax cut for big bank , a measure that could fund support for vulnerable mortgage holder and renter . bad of all , it take none of the vital step we need to grow the UK economy , such as launch an industrial strategy , reform business rate and the apprenticeship levy , and reduce trade barrier for small business . as other hon . member have highlight , the creative industry be a major driver of the UK economy and the Liberal Democrats be commit to ensure their continued success . the Finance Bill have some implication for theatre tax relief , which play a crucial role in enable the development of new theatre production . UK Theatre and the Society of London Theatre have raise concern to the Treasury about these implication , which could damage how this essential relief operate . I urge the Treasury to work with representative from the creative sector to address these concern and provide clear guidance on change to the administration of theatre tax relief introduce in this Bill . while the Liberal Democrats support of certain measure within the Bill , such as the extension of full expensing , we can not support any legislation that arise from such a deceptive and unjust autumn statement . ultimately , the Office for Budget Responsibility say living standard be forecast to be 3 . 5 % low in 2024 - 25 than their pre - pandemic level , which be the large reduction in real living standard since official record begin in the 1950 . household across the country be cry out for real support from this government , as well as action on the cost of live crisis and investment in our NHS , but all we have hear be more stale announcement that show just how out of touch the Conservative Government be . I now have to announce the result of today ' s defer Divisions . on the draft Representation of the People ( Overseas Electors etc . ) ( amendment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2023 , the Ayes be 325 and the Noes be 154 , so the Ayes have it . on the draft Equality Act 2010 ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , the Ayes be 464 and the Noes be 11 , so the Ayes have it . on the draft Representation of the People ( Overseas Electors etc . ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , the Ayes be 324 and the Noes be 186 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] I praise and congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer on bring forward the Bill . as we have previously discuss , it will implement the important measure set out in the autumn statement . we have already debate some of the key measure that be include in the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill , which be consider in the other place yesterday . I do not want to go over the argument on fiscal drag and low taxis , as I have set out my view previously , but I commend the Government for bring forward those measure quickly and in the right way , as they will go some way to ease the tax pressure the public be feel . my right hon . friend on the Front Bench be well verse in my view on the tax burden , so I will not go on about how about I feel about that or measure we can bring in go forward . however , I would like to press they to ensure that we think about long - term provision and that the next Finance Bill go far by raise threshold for income tax , include for high - rate taxpayer , and for national insurance . it be worth note that in the Budget after the general election of summer 2015 , the then Chancellor outline plan to increase the tax - free threshold to the equivalent of 30 hour ' pay at the national living wage . the new £ 11 . 44 national living wage rate for 2024 commence in April , so if the tax - free threshold rise to cover 30 hour per week next year , that would equate to £ 17 , 000 to £ 18 , 000 , rather than remain at £ 12 , 570 through to 2028 , as currently plan . I press my right hon . friend to keep that under review — thankfully , all tax measure be under review — and to prioritise uplift to those threshold , because we believe in enable people to keep more of their earning . at the same time , when we see GDP figure not grow as fast as they could , as we have today , it be important to focus on how we can grow the economy much more , and with that people ' s income . we want to see more growth in those GDP figure , but they represent the impact of high interest rate and what they mean for inflation . high interest and inflation have place a burden on business and household . the Bill outline reduction in business taxation that be well time and well placed but , as ever , they need to be keep under review . business grow the economy by employ more people , which help economic growth , and that be the space where we , as a Government and a country , want to be . it will not surprise my right hon . friend on the Front Bench that I wish to speak to certain clause , as I have speak about clause on business taxis in the past . I want to focus on the provision in clause 21 and schedule 12 of the Bill , on pillar two and the global minimum corporation tax measure that we be adopt . I have be on record about this previously , but the Minister be also well aware of my long - stand concern over the implementation of pillar two measure . bind ourselves to pillar two undermine our fiscal sovereignty and risk deter investment into our country . I labour this point because we have just see the publication of our GDP growth forecast . obviously there will be revision in our growth forecast , even by financial institution , and we should be mindful of that , but this measure undermine our competitiveness . it be know that some 130 country have sign up to pillar two , but , unlike the UK , barely a quarter of they be implement it at the end of the year . give our economic backdrop and GDP forecast , I would rather see a delay in the implementation of this measure . a write parliamentary answer early this month show that just 30 country be implement this measure at the same time as we be . they will be follow by Japan in April , and then Guernsey , the Isle of Man , Jersey , Hong Kong and Singapore from January 2025 . we also know that the US , our big economic ally , be not likely to implement the measure , so by press ahead with this fiscal measure , we be basically limit the scope that we give ourselves — oxygen , basically — to develop and grow . when the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 go through Parliament last year , it contain more than 150 clause , which be spread over two part , with a further five schedule , cover 170 page in total . many of we remember carry those weighty tome into the Chamber and flick through all the page . there be a large and complex change in tax law . but despite that legislation be pass in the summer , this Bill make even further change to pillar two and the domestic top - up level . clause 21 and schedule 12 , which cover those change , span 55 page and include multiple amendment to the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act pass only a few month ago . I recall say that the amendment alone would generate more complexity to the system . I say politely to those on the Front Bench that the 55 page here point to the complex nature of the matter . the fact that we be amend something that go through the House not that long ago say it all . no impact assessment have be provide of these measure , which give effect to the accounting period begin on or after 31 December 2023 . company and partnership will be impact by the change come into effect in less than three week ' time , even though the Bill will not receive Royal Assent until next year . we must be cognisant of the burden that we be again put on business . I be no fan of accountant , but by put more burden on to business , we be increase their dependency on accountant and on process , which we should be free they from . I ask the Minister to provide we with further detail as to why these change be need when the previous Finance Act be pass only early this year , and with an impact assessment of they . I would like to understand the merit of the global minimum income tax , and I hope that , in the same way that all tax be under review , Ministers will consider remove all the provision from our statute book in due course , because other country will not follow suit or be delay implement some of these measure . I wish to comment on clause 2 , relate to research and development tax credit . it merge the current R & D expenditure credit with the small and medium - sized enterprise scheme . these tax credit help and support business to invest and take risk , and , importantly , to innovate and grow , set up job and employ people . I have previously raise the concern that some business have about the complexity of claim they and the process that they experience . I be aware of many business that have spend more than a year have their claim investigate , with multiple round of question and inquiry from HMRC official . there be many live case , which I will not reflect on now , but previous Treasury Ministers have commit to hold discussion on they . I thank my right hon . friend for give way . in Staffordshire , which be a manufacturing powerhouse , R & D tax credit be vital in drive productivity in manufacturing business . do she agree that it would be good to hear those on the Front Bench make a commitment to review and slimme down that scheme , so that it actually get those small business embrace it and get the investment that we need ? my right hon . friend be spot on . the scheme be set up for a very good reason , which be , effectively , to support entrepreneurism and innovation and to grow business . now we be see those business saddle with bureaucracy and burden . what be worry be the number of small business that have be under investigation by HMRC for over a year , as that be now have a detrimental impact on their performance . as a representative not just of Witham , but of Essex as a whole , I can see business that have now come together to make wide representation to HMRC and the Treasury about that . I hope that those on the Front Bench will learn from some of these experience and look at how we can evolve and adapt the process , so that the scheme can revert back to its original premise of support business . as I have say many time , the only way be Essex . Essex be a county of entrepreneur and they be the one who be feel the pressure . in his summing up , will the Minister outline the operational aspect of these change ? in particular , what interaction be he have with HMRC about some of the case that have be under investigation for more than a year , and the impact that that be have on those small business ? at the end of the day , they be sme that be not able to grow their business because of these inquiry and investigation . naturally , that have an impact on the profit that they can then reinvest in their business . I also wish to make a few comment on air passenger duty and the provision in clause 24 . many of we in this House have speak about air passenger duty for many year . I have be a long - stand campaigner for reform of this tax to encourage and support economic growth . it be ironic that we be have this debate on a day when the GDP figure have come out as they have . I believe in globalisation — in the sense of more global competition — and in our be more open to the world when it come to those global dynamic market . we should also make travel more competitive and affordable for family , especially as they be struggle with the impact of the cost of living . reform that have take place under previous Conservative Chancellors have be welcome . I query the small increase in the APD rate for 2024 - 25 in the Bill . back in the summer , in his speech on net zero , the Prime Minister pledge to scrap plan for new taxis on fly , but the Bill provide for an increase in APD rate , range from 50p to £ 6 per flight . although they be small increase , they be still increase . they be low than the rate of inflation plan for and assume in previous Government statement and OBR forecast , which be to be welcome . therefore , any clarification on what be happen with APD go forward be welcome . again , that be important for certainty and also for forecast purpose . on the subject of air travel , I be disappointed that the autumn statement and this Finance Bill do not contain reform to end the so - call tourism tax . I be one of the few member to speak on that during the Humble Address debate . if we look at London , our great city , we can see that , at this time of the year , it be a magnet for tourism and for people come from overseas . it be great for our business , great for our country and great for our brand — our british brand and our small brand . our tourism sector and shopping and retail business be lose out to their european competitor as a result of the removal of the VAT refund and the vat - free shopping and arrangement that have previously be in place . I think that we can reintroduce those measure . in the last debate , those on the Front Bench commit to look at dynamic modelling in this area , and some external review of the potential revenue base . it would be a boost for business and job , and we should be look at all measure to boost economic growth and competition . there be plenty of report and study out there . I do not want to labour the point ; I know that those on the Front Bench will be aware of they . it be winter , and we be head towards a spring fiscal statement . since 2010 , the Government have consistently keep fuel duty down , cut and freeze rate . this be an opportune moment to remind the public what the Government have achieve on that alone , because it be very important . family , business and household depend upon it , and I very much hope that we will continue to stand up for the measure that we have put in place historically . I urge the Government to commit to maintain the 5p reduction , and perhaps even to go far where there be fiscal headroom . find fiscal headroom be difficult , but sometimes — I say this as a former Treasury Minister — it can be find when we really look for it . as the Bill pass through the House and be subject to further scrutiny , I know that my colleague on the Front Bench and the Chancellor of the Exchequer , who be dedicate to deal with the difficult fiscal challenge that we face , will be focus on unleash future growth by reduce taxis and , importantly , empower the very business that employ people and keep people in their job for long - term economic security . I agree with a lot of what my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) say . I be in this House for 13 year of Labour Government . twice a year , we have the autumn statement and Budget , and all taxis be review . in not one of those fiscal statement do they change the arrangement for non - dom . why ? because it bring in more money . I be therefore shocked at the criticism from those on the Labour Front Bench of their Chancellors when in government . what we have with the opposition be the politic of the magic money pot . the magic money pot be call non - dom , and the opposition think that it will pay for everything . it will not ; because such people be internationally mobile , they will move . the good thing to tax be thing that do not move , such as property . People can move , and we will not get sufficient money in as a result . the Government have do a lot of good thing . put up the triple lock be the right decision to look after pensioner , but those who pay tax might , because their pension will go up , pay more tax . put up the living wage be a good thing , because we want a higher - pay economy , but as lower - pay worker ' pay go up , they pay more tax . it be one of the feature of the modern world that those in the most successful and highest - pay economy tend to pay more tax . although the overall tax burden , because of the freeze , have go up , we need to reverse that , and we have start the process in the autumn statement . the Government have set out a good long - term plan , which be essentially base on increase the incentive for business to invest . we have a problem in Britain on productivity . one way of get productivity up be to get pay up and investment in machinery and equipment up . if we can do that , we can pay for the public service that we all want , on both side of the House , in term of well education , a well health service and well outcome . however , that require get productivity up . one of the problem since 2008 have be that Britain have struggle with productivity . whatever we do , whether it involve incentive , high pay , or credit for research and development , if it get productivity up , that have to be a good thing . I welcome an awful lot of what be in the autumn statement , but we should not look at it as one event ; it be part of a series of event bring in by the Chancellor that mean that our national debt be fall over the plan . our yearly deficit look like it will be in the 3 % range rather than the 4 % range . even the trade gap look like it be improve . our economic situation do not look too bad , and when we look over the channel to the EU and the eurozone , our problem seem rather less than theirs , with some of those country go into recession . I , too , see today ' s GDP figure . I would caution against any flash estimate of GDP . the monthly figure bounce around . I spend six week on a Finance Bill Committee during the day of the coalition when every day those on the Labour Front Bench talk about the double - dip recession , which be revise away six month later . the key point be to do the right thing for the economy , get productivity up and get the economy grow , and the other thing will come right . they will certainly come right when a lot of datum be in . even the three - monthly GDP datum be base on something like a quarter of the stat . it be constantly update over year and month . we should not be too fixate on short - term figure . one reason I think the economy will grow over the next 12 month be that living standard have go from fall to rise . that mean that ultimately the british consumer ought to come to the rescue of the british economy and get it grow , if the Government can keep a stable economic situation , and pay continue to outstrip inflation , which I be very optimistic about . brent crude have fall under $ 75 , which mean that gas price be now barely above where they be before the invasion of Ukraine . that have improve since the autumn statement . petrol price be fall again . this morning , the 10 - year bond interest rate be under 4 % . that be a sign that the pressure now be to lower interest rate . the overall Government economic policy be not only to balance the book and reduce taxation in term of national insurance , which will help 29 million people , but to get interest rate down so that , when people come to refix their mortgage , they can do so at a more reasonable rate . good progress have be make , but we will not be free with one bind ; it will take Budgets , statement and steady persistence . that mean not give in to every request for extra spending , however worthy they be individually . I commend those on the Treasury Bench and the Chancellor of the Exchequer . he have put together a good package , and I look forward to what will happen in March . before I sit down , I will pay tribute to a Labour Chancellor , Lord Alistair Darling of Roulanish , who be a very modest but very competent man . he face what would be anybody ' s nightmare in the Treasury , with bank collapse . I think that history will treat he well for his management of the economy at that very difficult time . he be miss by this House and I be sure the other place will miss he too . I echo that tribute to Alistair Darling . I be in the House with he for many year . he be a great politician and an excellent Chancellor of the Exchequer . David Simmonds will make the last Back - Bench contribution . we will then move on to the wind - up . I anticipate at least one Division . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , have be here to listen to some incredibly insightful and useful contribution from so many colleague . I will endeavour not simply to repeat those excellent point , but to focus on some additional one that have be raise in the course of the debate . my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) , the Chair of the Treasury Committee , touch on something that be not in the autumn statement , but that I be sure those of we on the Government Benches will wish to seek further assurance about from Ministers : the tax on education propose by the Opposition . I represent a constituency in which there be five independent fee - pay school , which have certainly be in contact with I to raise their concern about the opposition ' s proposal . every secondary school that serve my constituency , include the state - fund one , be an independent school , because they be all academy . every special educational need and disability school that serve my constituency be an independent school , include those that have never be part of the state sector but come into existence as charitable organisation with a view to provide specialist SEND service . there be even stable in this country that provide equine therapy to non - verbal autistic child that , because they serve more than one child , be register as independent school with Ofsted . the implication of the propose policy , which it be say would raise £ 1 . 7 billion , would be additional vat on fee pay by local authority up and down the land and , more significantly from the Exchequer ' s perspective , to bring a huge amount of vat within scope of be reclaim by that wide variety of institution . I hope that Ministers will state with great clarity that it remain the policy of this government that we support the excellence in our incredibly diverse independent sector , which include both SEND and state - fund education . we have be challenge to say what have be the big achievement of the Government in the past 13 year . for I , it be the thing that form the backdrop to this Finance Bill and to my right hon . friend the Chancellor ' s autumn statement : the transformation in the number of people in our country who earn their own living through work . the Office for National Statistics datum show an incredibly clear trend in youth unemployment . under the last Conservative Government , it be fall and fall ; once Labour take office , it begin to rise . since this Government take office in 2010 , the rate of youth unemployment have halve . that make an incredible difference to both the financial wellbeing and , most importantly , the mental and physical health of our young people . it give people prospect . it give people hope . it mean all our citizen have a stake in the economy of our country . the same trend be replicate elsewhere . I remember what it be like as an employer try to engage with the incredibly complicated system under the last Labour Government , in which so many people be disincentivise to work — especially woman who want to work part time and fit that around bring up child . the change in policy — particularly universal credit and really good childcare offer — have transform the ability of people in this country to access the workforce over that period . while that have not always mean that those individual be much well off , the fact that they be able to earn their own living and take pride in have a stake in our economy be incredibly important . there be particular reason why this Bill strike I as important . I would like to develop the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) about tax avoidance stop notice . I have a number of constituent who have be affect by the loan charge over the past few year , and it particularly concern I to hear from they that , in some case , they be still be contact by business try to sign they up to scheme of the kind that have already get they into significant financial trouble . I enormously welcome the fact that the Government be take step to make sure that that behaviour can be bring to an end and that we do not see any more of our constituent trap in financial situation not of their own making as a result of the marketing of organisation that should know that , while what they be do be theoretically and perhaps technically within the law because a loan be free of tax , if it be not a genuine loan and not to be repay during the person ' s lifetime , it should be consider part of their remuneration for the purpose of taxation . I welcome the step that the Bill make in that respect . the second thing I particularly welcome be the abolition of the lifetime allowance charge . I have hear from a very large number of professional across my constituency , especially in the NHS , but also in other type of business in the private sector . the impact of the lifetime allowance have be the loss of highly experienced staff from those organisation . these be generally people in their 50 and 60 who be at the peak of productivity and have an enormous amount to give , but face a financial cliff edge and be force by that limit to make a decision to leave a career that , in many case , they love and enjoy and in which they have much to contribute . in the NHS in particular , the change will enable experienced GPs , surgeon and consultant to return to the workplace or continue work at a high level than they would have be able to in other circumstance . for that reason , it will benefit our public service enormously , both in productivity and by ensure that waiting list , which be already begin to fall , come down much fast . let I turn to some of the measure design to support our small businesspeople and the self - employ . in politic , the loud voice in debate about the economy be often those of large corporation with substantial , well - fund public affair department . however , we also know from the ONS that around 70 % of people employ in the UK economy be in an enterprise with few than five staff . the voice of those small business , which be the bedrock of our economy , be not hear collectively as often as the voice of big international business . the measure to simplify and reduce national insurance for small businesspeople and the self - employ be enormously welcome , and not just because of the money that they put in people ' s pocket — it be important for we to remember that point . we hear some scoff and comment of " big deal " from the opposition when the reduction in class 2 national insurance contribution be mention , but the reduction represent about a quarter of what most household in the UK spend on Christmas , or a significant contribution to a child ' s school uniform , a summer holiday or maintain the car . all of those thing make a small difference individually and a big one collectively . they send a message to our low - income but entrepreneurial people that we be a Government who be on their side and keen to get off their back . I will finish with two suggestion . the first — to develop again a point make by my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire — be to tackle some of the cliff edge in our tax system . the abolition of the lifetime allowance charge be one example of that . it be clear that around the £ 100 , 000 income level — that be a significant sum of money , but one typically earn by many of the public sector professional on whom service such as the NHS , GP practice and school depend — many of the benefit of extra earning begin to be withdraw . the situation in which two earner on £ 99 , 000 a year , with a joint income of £ 198 , 000 , can continue to enjoy the benefit of tax - free childcare , but if one earner go to £ 100 , 001 a year , those benefit be completely withdraw , create a significant marginal tax rate for professional with child . I have hear from a number of constituent who work in public sector body , particularly the NHS , that they have have to scale back their hour or decline to take on additional waiting list initiative work fund by the Government because the impact of that cliff edge be so financially significant for they . of course , we see the same impact at that point from the pension taper . I suggest to my Front - Bench colleague that , as we think about the public sector productivity strategy , we need to consider how to take out some of those cliff edge so that the people we be ask to work and contribute more , and who be in a position to make a transformational difference to some of our public service , have good financial incentive to do so . finally , the OBR have be mention a few time in the debate . there be a degree of controversy about whether it be the correct body to provide a view about the sound financial management of our national finance . have spend a lot of time in the local government sector , it be strike to I that it be a legal requirement for councillor make decision in any of our local authority to have before they the financial and legal implication of the decision , whereas in this House we usually decide on policy in a crowded debate with a big row about what we should do and then , sometimes month later , have a scantily attend debate at which the financial implication of the policy be debate and agree . we do not take the financial implication and the policy decision together . I suggest that Ministers should consider whether , in order to emphasise the sound financial management approach of a Conservative Government , in addition to statement such as those about compliance with the requirement of the european convention on human right , we should seek to ensure that every Government policy and paper on which this House make a decision state what the financial implication of that decision might be . come back to the point about vat on school fee , I will make a forecast : should there be a change of Government , we will find ourselves back in the position that we be in under Gordon Brown . the announcement will be , " we want to spend the extra £ 1 . 7 billion that we have assume , but we can ' t actually raise that in taxis because the policy doesn ' t work in practice , so we ' ll borrow it , " and the £ 28 billion will become £ 29 . 7 billion . in addition , the non - dom money will not be forthcoming , so the Government will say , " we ' ll assume how much that might be when we get around to tackle that and add that on to the borrowing as well . " that be the reason why under Gordon Brown we spend something like 10 % more in every year than we raise in tax revenue . as a measure to prevent future government from run our finance into the ground again , let we make sure that we have that clarity of financial rigour in the decision making of Parliament , so that when member cast our vote , we all understand the implication for taxpayer of the policy on which we be make decision . I call Tulip Siddiq to begin the wind - up . this afternoon , we have be tell that the measure in the Finance Bill and the wide autumn statement will deliver the growth that our economy urgently need . unfortunately , our lead economic institution and economist do not seem to agree . despite the Conservatives ' attempt to distract attention with headline figure , the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies have describe their number as " sort of make up " . the Chancellor want we to believe he be cut taxis to give people back more of their pay packet , but the reality — as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) helpfully clarify for the Government — be an average tax rise for work people of £ 1 , 200 , with nearly everyone who pay national insurance leave with a big tax bill next year . the Chancellor may want gratitude and praise for his recent intervention , but the reality be that growth forecast have be cut for next year , the year after and the year after that . meanwhile , the Bank of England be forecast zero growth before 2025 . the conservative party might want we to believe that that be due to event outside its control and that thing be start to improve , but we learn just today from the late GDP figure that growth fall in October , demonstrate that our economy be still go backwards despite all the warm word we have hear from Ministers . taxis up , debt skyrocketing and the big hit to living standard ever record — that be the legacy of 13 year of conservative government , however much they try to escape from the reality of their record . only the Labour party have a clear plan to grow our economy by boost wage , bring down bill and make work people in all part of the country well off . as we have set out , there be a number of specific measure in the Bill that we support and , indeed , have long call for , so we will not oppose the Bill ' s Second Reading . for example , we welcome the Government ' s decision to heed the call of industry and make full expensing for business permanent , because we know that if the UK be to turn a corner and we be to drive growth in the economy , we need to address our chronic lack of business investment . while we wait for Committee stage to examine in great detail the decision to consolidate research and development tax relief scheme , it be worth note that that be the late of eight separate change to the R & D regime that this Government have make since the last election . my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North take we on a comprehensive tour of the constantly shift tax policy we have see from the Tories during this Parliament . it be now clear that by chop and change their business taxation and relief , from the annual investment allowance to the short - live super - deduction , the Government have keep business guess and not give they the confidence they need to grow . the measure set out today do not scratch the surface when it come to undo the year of uncertainty for business and investor , while industry be cry out for stability and a long - term plan . the truth be that , despite the word of Conservative Members , the UK be now lag behind our international competitor when it come to private sector investment as a share of GDP , at a time when we can not afford to drag our foot . it be Labour who will address this head - on with a comprehensive plan to boost business investment , work with our business to expand and compete with rival in the US , Europe and Asia . it be clear from this Finance Bill and the recent autumn statement that this government lack the imagination , leadership and appetite to transform our economy after 13 year in power . without that stability , certainty and long - term plan , our business will be leave unequipped to deliver the growth that we so urgently need at this time . if we do not deliver that growth , the poor in our society will pay the price as their living standard stagnate . the Government may want we to believe that our economy be turn a corner , but back in reality , million of people be struggle to make end meet . the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) ask what the great achievement of this Government be . frankly , I think that be quite a dangerous question , but I will try to answer it for he anyway . be it crash the economy , or produce the short serve Prime Minister in the history of our country ? be it the tax burden be at its high since the war , household income that will be 3 . 5 % low next year than before the pandemic or , my personal favourite , the late growth forecast show we plummet and plummet even far ? be it — shall I turn to my own constituency — people have to make the choice between turn on the heating and eat ? that be the reality face people in the country after 13 year of a Conservative Government . will the hon . Lady give way ? I have one line of my speech leave , but I will give way . if , as the shadow Minister say , and I agree , the Bill be this bad , why be she vote for it ? we be not actually vote . [ interruption . ] I think the hon . member be slightly misguided , as we be not vote . there be specific measure that we support , but , overall , we do not support the economic plan of this Government . if the Government be so sure about their economic plan , why do they not take their opinion to the public ? why do they not call a general election , and we will see who be smile and smirk after that ? what a great pleasure it be to close this debate on the Finance Bill on behalf of the Government . I want to thank my hon . friend the Financial Secretary , who be new in post , and to recognise the work of his predecessor and my constituency neighbour in Lincolnshire , my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , who carry out a great deal of work on this Finance Bill in the run - up to the autumn statement . I will address a number of the point raise in this very good debate — it be lack on quantity , but high on quality from a number of source — but before I reflect on the comment , let I reflect on the Bill . be in no doubt but that this Finance Bill will mean that company will pay less tax if they invest more . it will simplify and strengthen tax relief to bolster innovation , and it make the tax system fair and more secure . take together , the measure contain in it will strengthen our economy and create more opportunity for more rewarding work in every corner of this country . I will now turn to the comment make by a number of colleague . I will start with my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) , the Chair of the Treasury Committee , who have carry out significant work on the tax simplification programme with her Committee . the Government be clear that we want the tax system to be simple and fair , and to support growth . as she mention , the Financial Secretary have write to she just this week set out the progress we be make on simplification . this autumn statement , and the Finance Bill in particular , have a number of measure , not least the capital allowance and the R & D expenditure credit consolidation . this a step in the right direction , but we be not complacent and we will continue to go far . I be hearten to hear cross - party support for full expensing . that be in the context of the low headline rate of corporation tax in the G7 , but the autumn statement announcement , and the provision in the Bill , be a £ 10 billion - a - year effective tax cut , call for by the IFS , the CBI , the IOD , make UK , and many other business across the country . it be also in conjunction — this be not in the Bill — with a business rate package that will see a freeze for more than 90 % of rate payer in this country . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) make a comment about the oil and gas sector . let I be clear : this Government have resolute support for our domestic oil and gas sector , and its 210 , 000 job . she call for a " proper tax " on oil and gas company , and I can tell she that we already have one of the high rate of windfall tax in the world . the energy price levy strike the right balance between provide support for family and business through an energy crisis — namely through the energy price guarantee , which effectively pay 50 % of people ' s energy bill — while also encourage investment to bolster our energy security . conservative Members want to see the sector ' s profit reinveste to support our domestic economy , our job , and our domestic energy security . investment allowance within the EPL help to do that , and the energy security investment mechanism , which I announce in June , will help to provide bank with certainty in their modelling as they provide financing to the oil and gas sector , and as they be part of the transition to net zero . along with SNP Members , the hon . Member also say that she would like an increase in tax on bank , but she fail to mention that tax on bank have increase in recent time from 27 % to 28 % . she fail to mention that the tax revenue contribution from bank have increase significantly from £ 17 billion in 2010 , to more than £ 33 billion today . that help to pay for our NHS , our education , our defence , and many other public service that we all rely on . we want our banking system to be internationally competitive , and to keep the 1 million job that it employ stable and secure . many Opposition colleague have mention living standard , and they be right . conservative Members care deeply about that issue . that be why as part of the autumn statement , we increase the state pension by 8 . 5 % as part of the triple lock which , by the way , have bring 200 , 000 pensioner out of poverty since it be introduce by a conservative Prime Minister . we have also uprate benefit by 6 . 7 % , and uprate the local housing allowance , which will benefit 1 . 6 million household across the country . that be on the back of a £ 289 billion welfare budget . under this Government 400 , 000 child have be bring out of absolute poverty , and we have see the Government step in with significant support through two global shock of covid and the energy price spike , with £ 500 billion of support to get people through . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way . we be go to proceed I ' m afraid ; the hon . Gentleman have have his chance . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) who have great consistency when it come to reduce the tax burden . she have make clear her view on our tax system , and we agree with she . we have a keenness to bring taxis down , but we will do it in a responsible way that be in line with sustainable public finance . she also make clear her consistent campaign on pillar 2 , and we be very alive to her concern . I be pleased that the Chancellor recently meet and write to she , follow the two fiscal statement . I understand her concern about sovereignty , and I assure she that the pillar 2 provision do not impact on sovereignty or indeed on competitiveness . the provision in the Bill be technical amendment that we will discuss in more detail as it go into Committee . finally I thank , as always , my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) for his positivity about our economy , which do not always get report . for I , his critical point be about look at the long - term performance of the economy , not just at the provision we be put in place . instead of look month by month by month , we should look at long - term provision . in conclusion , in January this year , the Prime Minister set out his priority for the Government . three of they be economic and , since then , we have see our inflation cut in half and our economy be expect to grow in every year of the OBR ' s forecast period . that be half a decade of uninterrupted growth . because we be reduce borrowing , debt be now forecast to fall . put simply , we have turn a corner , and it be because of the action of this Government , this Prime Minister and this Chancellor . this be a conservative approach through supply - side reform , and it be in stark contrast to the Labour party ' s debt - drive ambition . we know that its plan to borrow some £ 28 billion every year for green initiative will put at risk the great progress that we and the british public have achieve . the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies have issue a stark warning for Labour ' s plan . it say they will increase inflation and drive up interest rate , lead to more debt , high rate , high inflation , few job and more tax . that be the Labour party ' s playbook . we can not let that happen , and we will not . we want an economy drive by enterprise , and by worker and by business throughout this country who push and strive , make we more competitive abroad and resilient at home . we want a tax system that push up business and worker who want to succeed , not that pull they down when they do succeed . the autumn statement be a statement for growth , investment , work and reward . the measure in the Bill will deliver much of that , so I strongly commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Hannah Bardell Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Steven Bonnar Gavin Newlands Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Mark Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 46 , Noes 296 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Mark Fletcher Hannah Bardell Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Edward Davey Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Stewart Hosie Chris Law David Linden Kenny MacAskill Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Helen Morgan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Jamie Stone Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Munira Wilson Steven Bonnar Gavin Newlands the House divide : Ayes 291 , Noes 54 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Finance Bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) that the follow provision shall apply to the Finance Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the follow shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House — ( a ) clause 1 ( capital allowance : permanent full expensing etc for expenditure on plant or machinery ) ; ( b ) clause 2 and Schedule 1 ( new regime for research and development carry out by company ) ; ( c ) clause 21 and Schedule 12 ( Pillar two ) ; ( d ) clause 25 ( rebate on heavy oil and certain bioblend use for heating ) ; ( e ) clause 27 ( interpretation of vat and excise law ) ; ( f ) Clauses 31 to 34 and Schedule 13 ( tax evasion and avoidance ) ; ( g ) any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of the Clauses and Schedules mention in paragraph ( a ) to ( f ) . ( 2 ) the remainder of the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Committee of the whole House ( 3 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall be complete in one day . ( 4 ) the proceeding — ( a ) shall be take on that day in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . proceeding time for conclusion of proceeding clause 1 and 2 and Schedule 1 ; any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of those Clauses and that Schedule2 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill . 2 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill . clause 21 and Schedule 12 ; Clauses 31 and 32 and Schedule 13 ; Clauses 33 and 34 ; any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of those Clauses and those schedule 4 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill . clause 25 and 27 ; any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of those clause 6 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill . 6 hour after the commencement of proceeding Proceedings in Public Bill Committee etc ( 5 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 18 January 2024 . ( 6 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . ( 7 ) when the provision of the Bill consider , respectively , by the Committee of the whole House and by the Public Bill Committee have be report to the House , the Bill shall be proceed with as if it have be report as a whole to the House from the Public Bill Committee . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 8 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 9 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . programming committee ( 10 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Local Government Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . Petition - Opposition to parking charge in Audlem , Cheshire the petition state : the petition of the resident of Audlem , Cheshire in the Eddisbury County constituency , declare their opposition to the introduction of parking charge to public car park in the village , and the coterminous reduction in its on - street parking capacity , pursuant to a change . org petition of 1 , 808 signature oppose the same ; far that the petitioner believe that such measure would threaten the vibrancy of Audlem as a countryside business , tourism , event and infrastructure hub for resident and visitor , and reduce access for vulnerable service user in a rural area which be readily accessible only by private car and one regular bus service . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that such proposal be only develop and deliberate on follow rigorous and renew local public and economic consultation , have due regard to Government policy support rural high street , service , business , community , and healthcare , amongst other . [ p002889 ] Petition - propose West of Ifield development this petition to stop the West of Ifield development be support by over 7 , 300 local people . Homes England have put forward proposal for up to 10 , 000 housing unit on a greenfield site that be prone to flooding , and these proposal would put intolerable pressure on already strained local public infrastructure such as highway and doctor ' surgery . the petitioner therefore " urge the House of Commons to ensure the Department for Levelling up , Housing & Communities work with Homes England to ensure these proposal be withdraw . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Crawley declare that proposal put forward by Homes England for up to 10 , 000 housing unit on land to the west of Ifield be unsustainable , and would see the loss of greenfield site and intolerable pressure on local public infrastructure the petitioner therefore urge the House of Commons to ensure the Department for Levelling up , Housing & Communities work with Homes England to ensure these proposal be withdraw and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002890 ] Petition - Ulverston Library I rise to present this petition on the urgent need to reopen Ulverston library in my Barrow and Furness constituency . since Ulverston library ' s closure due to an electrical fault , the amazing library team have do a remarkable job in set up two pop - up library but , as the 600 - plus signature on this petition attest , local people want a full service to be restore as soon as possible . our library enable far more than just the lending of book and be a true community hub . the petitioner therefore " request that the House of Commons urge the Government to help ensure that Ulverston have a full library service restore as soon as possible . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Barrow and Furness , declare that the Ulverston Library offer a vital service to a local people from lend book to support literacy , to enable community group , and bring local people together ; far that Ulverston Library must be re - open as a matter of urgency . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to help ensure that Ulverston have a full library service restore as soon as possible . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002891 ] flooding : River Severn Catchment Area Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) I now consider flooding to be the single big barrier to my Shrewsbury constituency ' s economic development . we be now flood on an annual basis , and the sheer misery , damage and destruction that take place in my town every single year be cause my council , local authority , business and homeowner a great deal of financial stress . in February 2019 , when the Coleham area of Shrewsbury flood , I invite the former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , to visit . I will never forget the day he go around Shrewsbury with I to meet many business — butcher , hairdresser and caf é s — and homeowner , or the sheer , raw emotion that we experience and see on the street of Shrewsbury . People ' s property be devastate , and one have to remember that an Englishman ' s home be his castle . People ' s personal possession and home be badly affect . I know one lady in my constituency whose home be flood every single year . it be a very emotional time for both the Environment Secretary and I , but it be an important visit , because I introduce he to Professor Mark Barrow from Shropshire Council . he help to run the River Severn Partnership , which be a consortium of the council all the way down the river . we have have enough of act in silos ; we understand the key aspect from an emotional intelligence perspective — the interdependence of all the community along the River Severn . my council , Shropshire Council , have reach out to other council all the way down the river to create the River Severn Partnership , so that as a consortium they can speak with one voice in lobby the Government . I be pleased to inform the Minister that in 2019 , after that visit to my constituency , we receive £ 50 million of taxpayer ' money , not only to help we with some small flood defence scheme in the constituency , but , most importantly , to start the work of create a plan to manage the River Severn holistically . I congratulate my hon . friend on the extraordinary amount of work he have do over the past few year in achieve a momentous investment , potentially , in the whole of the River Severn valley . he have also be successful in secure £ 50 million for his constituency . the last Prime Minister but one be also incredibly generous to Wyre Forest , in commit £ 10 million to the Bewdley flood defence , which be go up at the moment . some action be be take , as well as the excellent work my hon . friend be do . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and I put on record how much my team and I appreciate his consistent support in work with I on the caucus that I manage here in the House of Commons . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important Adjournment debate . my constituency contain the River Severn catchment , the River Teme and the River Avon , so it be also prone to flooding . do he agree that it be wonderful that the Environment Agency have deliver scheme in Upton upon Severn , Pershore , Uckinghall , Kempsey and Powick ? do he also agree that it would be good if the Environment Agency would complete the scheme it be work on in Tenbury Wells and in Severn Stoke ? I be happy to echo those sentiment , with the Minister listen and make note . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend for the constructive way in which she have work with I and other on the River severn caucus . I wish she every success with get those flood defence complete . although the flood defence that my hon . friend refer to be essential — they be critical in the short - term to medium - term — there be also a long - term objective of manage the River Severn holistically . Hitherto , we have have the idea of build small flood barrier . they be important , but inevitably they push the problem far downstream ; that be counter - intuitive to a certain degree , because we be protect ourselves and make it more difficult for the community far downstream . later in my speech , I will explain how , now that we have leave the common agricultural policy , we want to start to manage this river holistically . I pay tribute to Mark Barrow of the River Severn Partnership and to the Environment Agency , whose new chief executive , Mr Duffy , I meet recently . as a result of our work , we have present a business case to the Minister for flooding , the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) . I be grateful to she , because she have visit my constituency twice in the past year . at my invitation , she have come to Shrewsbury , sit with the official of the River Severn Partnership and be present with the business case that we be now share with the Government on how we intend to manage the River Severn . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for all her work , as well as her determination and ability to visit my constituency to hear our proposal at first hand . follow those discussion , the then DEFRA Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , visit Shrewsbury early this year at my invitation . she be present with the business case that have now go to Government and she be impressed with what she see . finally , as I mention , I invite the chief executive of the Environment Agency , Mr Duffy , to visit Shrewsbury two month ago , which he do , and he be present with the proposal as well . those proposal have be develop through a collaboration between the caucus of 38 conservative mp whose constituency the river flow through . as I say to the Chancellor , " you have hear of the blue Danube — well , this be the blue Severn " , because 38 of we Tory mp have the river flow through our constituency . I present the proposal to Mr Duffy and he understand the importance of the plan . we present the plan to the Chancellor at a meeting of the River severn caucus last month , and I know some of his senior special adviser and assistant be currently examine the business model in order to understand its economic impact on the midland . we hope and expect the Chancellor to have positive thing to say to we in the spring Budget . I also raise the matter at Prime Minister ' s question today . the Prime Minister kindly recognise the many dealing I have with he when he be Chancellor of the Exchequer . he promise that the new Chancellor will look at the proposal and state that the Government have already give an extra £ 6 billion for flood defence . I recognise that and thank the Government for allocate an extra £ 6 billion of taxpayer ' money to flood defence . however , the situation be grave across the whole of the United Kingdom and I have hear that a lot of that money have be spend in London . protect our capital city be obviously a priority , but I would argue that £ 6 billion be a drop in the ocean , if you would pardon the pun , Mr Deputy Speaker , compare to what be require . we be not prepared to go to DEFRA to ask for a piece of that £ 6 billion . we want to go directly to the Chancellor , give he a business case and a business plan , and explain that if £ 500 million be invest today , there will be an economic uplift in the west midland , which be the industrial heartland of England , of over £ 100 million gross value add . that be what be in the business case that have go to the Chancellor . I be proud to have campaign for Brexit , but I be even proud that my constituent in Shrewsbury vote for Brexit . one clear benefit of leave the European Union be that we no long have to comply with the ghastly common agricultural policy , which be difficult for we to benefit from and almost design to be unconducive to english farming practice . now that we be no long part of the common agricultural policy , we can , for the first time , pay and incentivise farmer and landowner to hold on to water . that be not allow under the common agricultural policy . now that we have leave , for the first time we can go to farmer and say , " if you want to be part of a major solution to flooding , we can incentivise you financially to hold on to that water and manage that water during extreme time of flooding . " we can also pay landowner for help to be part of that solution . I have have two very productive discussion with two Secretaries of State for Wales . I think you be once a shadow Secretary of State for Wales , Mr Deputy Speaker , and you be brilliant . you will know , from have hold that position , the extraordinary interdependence that we have in western England with our neighbour in Wales . we be all part of the same Union , and , of course , this solution to manage Britain ' s long river can be achieve only if we have collaboration and co - operation from our partner across the border . have represent a constituency on the English - Welsh border , I be acutely aware of the need to have scheme that enhance and promote the interdependence of both of our country , as we share this one island together . I be very grateful for the close support from my neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire ( Craig Williams ) , who be the Prime Minister ' s parliamentary private Secretary . we collaborate on many thing , but he have already state to his local press that he support these plan . a counter - intuitive person would say , " no , I be not interested . that ' s your problem . you deal with it " but he have say that he understand how some of his landowner and farmer could benefit enormously from financial payment if they be part of the solution . he understand the potential of the vast economic investment in his constituency , particularly at a difficult time for farmer and agriculture . Shropshire Council have take the lead with the River Severn Partnership . I chair a caucus of 38 conservative mp who have this river flow through their constituency . we be approach — I say this unequivocally — a general election . every year , Mr Blair and John Prescott come to Shrewsbury . in 1999 , they ostensibly walk around Shrewsbury , say , " Don ' t worry , folk , we be go to protect you . " well , we have a flood barrier , which protect a car park and 38 house and that be the extent of the help that we get from Mr Blair and Mr Prescott . we can not have just little stick plaster on this problem , bear in mind that this situation will only get bad — I think , Mr Deputy Speaker , that you and I can agree on that . give climate change and the number of month and day of flood that we be experience , this situation will get increasingly bad for our child and our grandchild . if we can invest today in an innovative , progressive and modern way of holistically manage river , that will be not just a prototype for other part of the United Kingdom , but , potentially , a massive british export worldwide . think about the suffering and the misery in Bangladesh . think about all the million of people around the world who face economic hardship and sometimes death as a result of these river spill over . if we can invest in this technology of manage river , it could be of huge benefit not only to our export , but to our international development aid programme . finally , with £ 500 million — that be what be in the business case — we can show an uplift of more than £ 100 billion for the west midland economy . I be not beg for £ 500 million ; I be say to the Chancellor , " this be the return on investment that you will get if you invest in this scheme . " I know how difficult the public finance be at the moment , which be why I be so proud of the way in which we have present the plan . I be grateful for the constructive dialogue that I have have with the Minister . I welcome he to his position , and I know that he will do a superb job . we need his support . I have send his official copy of the business case that have be present to the Chancellor of the Exchequer . I be ask for the Minister ' s understanding of our proposal , and for he to lobby the Chancellor with I ahead of the spring Budget . I be sure he will agree that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will need more than £ 6 billion in the year to come to manage flooding . finally , let I tell the House about my constituent Mr Bob Ashton of Cambrian House , an apartment building that flood almost annually . he have take I to see it , and the resident themselves have build flood defence to protect the entire building ; a sort of electronic shield go up to protect it . that be a very innovative way of try to protect a whole apartment building , and I pay tribute to Mr Ashton and his fellow resident for their innovation . they live in Coton Hill in Shrewsbury . I must declare an interest , because I too live in Coton Hill , an area of my constituency that flood annually . I go to see business in Shrewsbury not just when they be flood , but 30 business tell I their taking during the flood and in the week after they , and they be significantly down even two week after the flooding have subside . as we know , the medium be brilliant at highlight when Shrewsbury be under water , but they be not so interested in broadcast that the flood have subside and we be back to normal . flooding be the single big barrier to Shrewsbury ' s economic development . we have more list building — Edwardian , Elizabethan and Georgian — than any other town in England . we be so proud of our architectural beauty . Charles Darwin be bear in Shrewsbury . we be a very historic town and we be very proud of our town , but , as I say , the flooding be cause horrendous problem for my citizen , adversely affect people ' s ability to get insurance for their property and put tourist off come to our town when they see the consequence of it . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak on a subject that I feel so passionately about . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury and Atcham ( Daniel Kawczynski ) on secure this important debate to build his case for deal with the challenge that not only he and his constituent but those across the whole River Severn catchment area be experience with flooding . not only be my hon . friend successful in secure an Adjournment debate , but he do so for a day on which we could continue to speak about the subject for another couple of hour if we wish . that enable I not only to set out the position that the Government be take nationally , but to pick up on some of the specific concern that he have rightly voice to I , as the Minister with responsibility for flooding , on behalf of his constituent . of course , the Government and I sympathise with my hon . friend ' s constituent , and all household and business that experience regular flood . I be take by the point my hon . Friend make at the beginning of his speech , when he talk eloquently about have host the previous Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , who visit his constituency back in 2019 to meet some of his constituent who have unfortunately be flood , get to grip with the emotional challenge of flooding for they , and its impact not only on their property , but on their livelihood , their family and some of their business . I be pleased that my hon . Friend be able to introduce the then Secretary of State to Professor Mark Barrow , who head up the River Severn Partnership , to make sure that the Department be alive to my hon . friend ' s ambition for his constituency and far afield . the number of time he have raise this issue in the House be extraordinary , and he do so again early today at Prime Minister ' s question ; I be in the Chamber to listen to not only his question , but the Prime Minister ' s reply from this very Dispatch Box . as climate change lead to rise sea level and more extreme rainfall , the number of people at risk from flooding and coastal erosion continue to grow . that be why this Government be act now to drive down flood risk from every angle . give that we have some time , I want to set out what the Government be do at a national level , and then I will come back to some of the specific that my hon . friend raise . our long - term policy statement , publish in 2020 , set out our ambition to create a nation more resilient to future flood and coastal erosion risk . it include five ambitious policy and a number of action that will accelerate progress to 2027 and beyond , to prepare the country and well protect it against flooding and coastal erosion in the face of more frequent extreme weather . we be now halfway through our significant £ 5 . 2 billion flood and coastal erosion six - year investment programme . in that time we have invest more than £ 1 . 5 billion to well protect more than 67 , 000 home and business in England alone , take the total number of property protect to more than 380 , 000 since 2015 and more than 600 , 000 since 2010 . that record £ 5 . 2 billion investment be double the £ 2 . 6 billion investment from the previous funding round , which run from 2015 to 2021 . that programme deliver more than 850 flood defence project to well protect 314 , 000 home , nearly 600 , 000 acre of farmland , thousand of business and major piece of infrastructure . that demonstrate how dedicated this Government be to deal with not only the challenge that my hon . friend have raise in the River Severn catchment , but other challenge across England . with double the investment , we will continue to build on past achievement and improve flood resilience for all . however , it would be insincere of I not to point out the finding of the recent National Audit Office report on resilience to flooding , which highlight that our current investment programme have face challenge . it be absolutely right that , like previous Ministers , I ensure that we be deliver for constituent right across England who need protection for their home and for the business that be impact , and that we audit the money be spend so that we can get well protection for all . unfortunately , the start of the programme be impact by the coronavirus pandemic , which result in few people be available to develop project and delay the mobilisation . however , I be pleased to be able to reassure all hon . member that we be well on course to deliver the funding that we have allocate during this funding round and that , despite the challenge , 67 , 000 property have already be well protect from flood under the programme , which start in April 2021 . the delay do , however , mean that the original target of well protect 336 , 000 property by 2027 be under review , and I be ask my official to give I further advice on that . the Environment Agency ' s revised forecast be that 200 , 000 property will be well protect in that time . I be currently in discussion with the Environment Agency on how we can make sure that the budget be spend properly . we be ensure that project be deliver in every region , and we be provide flood protection across the country . in April 2023 , we announce the first community in England to benefit from the £ 100 million frequently flood allowance . the first 53 project will be allocate more than £ 26 million in total in 2023 and 2024 , safeguard 2 , 300 household and business alone . in September 2023 , we announce a further round of £ 25 million through the natural flood management programme ; successful project will be announce early in 2024 . as part of that wide approach , we have also fund a £ 200 million flood and coastal innovation programme , which have three element : £ 33 million to develop a coastal transition accelerator programme in a small number of area that be expose to significant risk of coastal erosion ; around £ 150 million to support 25 innovative project over six year to improve their resilience to flooding and coastal erosion ; and £ 8 million for four adaptation pathway in the Thames and Humber estuary , the severn valley and Yorkshire , enable local place to well plan for future flooding and coastal change and to adapt to future climate hazard . in addition , we continue to invest in flood and coastal defence maintenance with an extra £ 22 million per year for the current spending review period to 2024 - 25 . currently , 93 . 5 % of major flood and coastal erosion risk management asset be in target condition , but that be not where we need to be ; we aim to achieve 98 % relatively soon . in addition to all that new funding , we be work closely with partner agency to tackle surface water flooding . unfortunately , 3 . 4 million property in England be at risk of surface water flooding , and the Environment Agency and the Met Office be invest an additional £ 1 million over the next three year , through the Flood Forecasting Centre , to advance the modelling , forecasting and communication of surface water flood risk . in addition , the Government be focus on water company , where we will be invest over £ 1 billion between 2020 and 2025 to reduce the impact of flooding on community across England and Wales . let I address the specific point that be raise in the debate . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury and Atcham , because he be represent not just himself but 38 other colleague as part of a wide caucus . I know the hard work that he have do with that caucus , and not just in the House . not only have he already lobby I in my first three week in this role , but I know that he lobby the last flooding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , on several occasion , include on visit , and he raise his case at Prime Minister ' s question today . I know that his business case have be submit to the Chancellor , and it have already reach my desk . I await the opportunity to digest it — it arrive only today — so that I can speak in more detail not only with my official , but with those at the Treasury . let I pick up on the point make by my hon . Friend Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) about the Environment Agency scheme at Tenbury Wells and the Severn Stoke alleviation scheme . I want to reassure she that the outline business case for the Tenbury Wells scheme have be approve by the Environment Agency , which be review design option for it . it have be advise that the scheme be complex , but nevertheless , we will ensure that it progress . while there have be some complexity associate with the Severn Trent flood alleviation scheme , I reassure my hon . friend that the Environment Agency be work to secure a contractor , so that the agency and I can be reassure that that scheme will be able to commence construction from spring 2024 . as have be point out , we have already invest £ 50 million in the English Severn and Wye catchment between 2015 and 2021 , protect 3 , 000 home . that programme have invest almost £ 8 million within Shropshire alone , well protect over 200 home , and under the new funding round that cover the period between 2021 and 2027 , we expect to invest another £ 150 million to reduce flood risk and well protect a furth 3 , 000 home and business across that catchment . almost £ 45 million of that funding will be invest specifically in Shropshire , well protect almost 600 home and business . that be in addition to the summer economic recovery fund , which have already allocate £ 40 million of investment to the River Severn catchment . project in Shropshire that will benefit include the highly innovative severn valley water management scheme , which be already shape landscape change in the upper catchment across England and Wales . I want to pick up specifically on a point rightly make by my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury and Atcham . we be now out of the European Union , and will be come out of the common agricultural policy . that create opportunity for not only DEFRA but the Treasury to look at how we can incentivise more upstream scheme , so that we increase the lag time of the water get into the River Severn . I be very keen to explore those option as part of my flooding portfolio and alongside my DEFRA colleague , make sure that those scheme work not only within urban environment , but upstream in more natural environment . the severn valley water management scheme aim to reduce flood risk across Shropshire , but will also secure water resource for the future , benefit and improve water quality , natural asset and the environment . the Environment Agency be work closely with local authority , landowner and community to identify place where it be feasible and effective to deliver such innovation . it be likely that not all funding will need to come from Government — that be important , because we need to secure value for money , not only for the taxpayer but from public fund and private initiative . I be happy to look at the option that be available ; no doubt , those option might be include in the business case that have already be submit to the Chancellor , but that be something that I , with my official , will concentrate on as well . as I mention , the severn valley will also benefit from £ 1 . 5 million in funding as one of the adaptation pathway project . the River Severn adaptation pathway project will help ensure that people and wildlife within that vibrant river catchment can adapt and be resilient in the face of the change climate we be all experience . that suite of pathway and action be be develop , and will help manage flood risk and ensure that water resource can be use much more effectively across the River Severn catchment , not only today or tomorrow but well into the future . the county of Shropshire be also benefit from approximately £ 3 . 5 million of maintenance of current flood risk asset to ensure that we can continue to be effective in well protect community from flooding , not only those in my hon . friend ' s constituency but other across the River Severn catchment . in total , since 2015 , approximately £ 245 million have be commit to reduce flooding in the River Severn valley area , demonstrate this Government ' s commitment to area impact by regular flooding . as I have say , I will pay deep attention to the business case that have be present to my colleague in the Treasury , and on the back of this Adjournment debate , I will be more than happy to have a meeting with my hon . friend and member of his caucus , which he be do an excellent job of leading . I be very grateful for the very positive way in which my hon . friend be respond to the point I have make . will he also commit to visit Shrewsbury in the new year to meet the River Severn Partnership and to see , in practice , some of the proposal that we wish to create ? before the Minister respond , may I urge he to face forward ? I know the temptation be to look at Mr Kawczynski , but when he be face forward he be speak into the microphone , and it can be pick up by Hansard . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be come on to that point . I be happy not only to pay my hon . friend a visit , but to meet his colleague who have be work on the business case in his constituency to make sure that we be able to take fully into account the proposal be put forward to my Department . I be always happy to get out and practically speak to people on the ground who be be negatively impact by flooding . I hope that a visit , which I be more than happy to do , will be of value not only to he , but to I in my role . I want to reiterate that I fully understand the anxiety and frustration feel by my hon . friend ' s constituent , which be why I be absolutely committed to provide full attention to and focus on flooding and flood resilience . storm Babet provide significant challenge to many local authority across England , and I hope that some of the reassurance I have provide he , through the amount of money that this Government be spend across England , give he some sense of reassurance about how importantly flood resilience and flood improvement project be take by this Government . I also want to outline quickly some other work that fall into other Departments . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have activate the flood recovery framework and its package of support include these measure . there be the community recovery grant , from which eligible local authority will receive funding equivalent to £ 500 per flooded household to support local recovery effort . I know this have be roll out on the back of Storm Babet and other . in addition , there be the business recovery grant , from which the Department for Business and Trade will provide eligible local authority with up to £ 2 , 500 for each eligible small and medium - sized enterprise that have suffer severe impact from flooding that can not be recover from insurance . there be the council tax discount , under which the Government will reimburse eligible local authority for the cost of a 100 % council tax discount for a minimum of three month . finally , there be the property flood resilience repair grant , and area flood by Storm Babet have be able to benefit positively from that grant . the scheme offer a package of funding for property owner directly flood by a specific weather event , and grant they up to £ 5 , 000 per property to install flood resilience measure . in addition , these grant will be support by the exist Bellwin scheme , which can provide financial help to local authority for the immediate action that they take in the aftermath of an emergency , such as set up rest centre and temporary accommodation . to conclude , I want to reassure my hon . friend that his debate have be absolutely welcome by I as the Minister . he use the opportunity before this debate to speak to I very specifically on the level of detail with which his business case be be put forward , and I be more than happy to meet he and to pay a visit to his constituency so that I can understand the business case in more detail . let I be clear : we will continue to improve the resilience to flooding of our village , town and city across England and the wide UK , and we will do that in a holistic manner . I think we be go to have a two - hour speech . I be look forward to that . question put and agree to . House adjourn . defer Divisions Representation of People ( Northern Ireland ) that the draft Representation of the People ( Overseas Electors etc . ) ( amendment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Wendy Chamberlain Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Edward Davey David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Tim Farron Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Conor McGinn Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore layla Moran Penny Mordaunt Helen Morgan Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Sarah Olney Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Jamie Stone Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes John Healey Meg Hillier Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Hywel Williams Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner the House divide : Ayes 325 , Noes 154 . question accordingly agree to . Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Equality Act 2010 ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Lucy Allan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Paula Barker John Baron Simon Baynes Apsana Begum Aaron Bell Hilary Benn Paul Beresford Jake Berry Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Lyn Brown Nick Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Rob Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Andy Carter James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Robert Courts Neil Coyle Stephen Crabb Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Edward Davey Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Dehenna Davison Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Mark Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Ruth Edwards Sarah Edwards Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Tim Farron Simon Fell Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith James Grundy Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Mark Harper Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes Oliver Heald John Healey James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins George Howarth John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt rupa Huq Imran Hussain Alister Jack Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Darren Jones David Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Simon Jupp Mike Kane Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Greg Knight Kate Kniveton John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Conor McGinn Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Esther McVey Ian Mearns Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore layla Moran Penny Mordaunt Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Anne Marie Morris David Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Tom Randall Angela Rayner John Redwood Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Lee Rowley Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle Gary Sambrook Liz Saville - Roberts Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Alex Sobel Amanda Solloway John Spellar Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Keir Starmer Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens Jane Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Mel Stride Graham Stringer Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Emily Thornberry Maggie Throup Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Jon Trickett Steve Tuckwell Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Charles Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Hywel Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Daniel Zeichner Scott Benton Bob Blackman Bill Cash Miriam cat Chris Green Jonathan Gullis John Hayes Danny Kruger Marco Longhi Robin Millar Jill Mortimer the House divide : Ayes 464 , Noes 11 . question accordingly agree to . Police that the draft Representation of the People ( Overseas Electors etc . ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Wendy Chamberlain Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Edward Davey David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Tim Farron Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Conor McGinn Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore layla Moran Penny Mordaunt Helen Morgan Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Sarah Olney Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Jamie Stone Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Gavin Newlands Brendan o ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz christian Wakeford Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Hywel Williams Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner the House divide : Ayes 324 , Noes 186 . question accordingly agree to .