prayer the First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . pension ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this very small Bill be narrow in scope , but it will provide financial assistance and fairness to people who be terminally ill who have see the sponsor of their pension scheme become insolvent . it will do that by change the definition of " terminally ill " for this purpose . I thank the legislative team of the Department for Work and Pensions and my staff for their help prepare the Bill . I think everyone in the House would agree that those who receive the devastating news that they have a terminal illness should receive as much financial help as possible in their final day . the loss of their right to pension payment be a blow that they should not have to suffer , and that be what the Bill seek to address . by way of background , the Bill focus on the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme . the Pension Protection Fund be establish by the Pensions Act 2004 and pay compensation to individual when the sponsor of define benefit pension scheme — usually their employer — become insolvent and lack the necessary asset to pay those pension to the level that the Pension Protection Fund would ordinarily pay . that apply to insolvency that have take place on or after 6 April 2005 . the financial assistance scheme apply to individual whose pension scheme be unable to meet their pension liability in full if those scheme start to wind up between 1 January 1997 and 5 April 2005 . the Bill relate to compensation payment from those scheme make to people with terminal illness . when meet the liability of pension scheme , the Pension Protection Fund can pay a one - off lump sum to someone who be terminally ill . the financial assistance scheme can start to make pension payment , but not pay a lump sum , to someone at any age with a terminal illness . the issue be the definition of a terminal illness . the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme use the same legal definition of terminal illness , which be that a person be terminally ill " at any time if at that time the person suffer from a progressive disease and the person ' s death in consequence of that disease can reasonably be expect within 6 month . " I commend my hon . friend on bring forward this Bill , and I hope that he will not mind that at time I will ask some question about it ; I may also make some comment later . he be talk about the assessment of what be a terminal illness . can he spend a bit more time on who be make that decision , and what the range of illness be ? be the illness set down by the NHS ? be there a limited list of those illness ? who assess whether a person be within the bound of what would be call a terminal illness for the purpose of this Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . as I understand it , the assessment be make by a health professional . what illnesse he or she be entitle to take into account go beyond the scope of this Bill , and I do not think that I can list those illness . the Bill be about the length of time someone be expect to live . if he will allow I , I will leave my explanation there . on that point , be there provision for a second opinion to be obtain in case where there be doubt ? if my hon . friend can not answer that today , will he write to I ? I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . I be not aware of the process that someone would have to go through when be assess . the assessment of the time that someone have to live , which be a technical legal point , be particularly concern , but I be certainly happy to look into that . the definition of " terminal illness " be a disease that can reasonably be expect to bring an end to somebody ' s life within six month . the Department for Work and Pensions use that definition for calculate benefit , but in the Social Security ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Act 2022 , that six month be extend to 12 month . it therefore seem logical to change the definition of " terminally ill " apply by the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme , so that it be consistent with the definition that be apply when consider social security payment . the Bill seek to make that extension from six to 12 month . it be hard to know how many people would benefit from this legislation . I suppose , paradoxically , we do not want people to benefit from it , because that would mean that the sponsor of their pension fund have become insolvent , which we do not want to happen . however , the Bill will help terminally ill people where that be the case . while the Bill ' s scope be technically limit to the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme , I hope that my bring it forward will encourage any workplace pension scheme that do not have provision for member with a terminal illness who have a life expectancy of 12 month or less to consider put that in place . many private pension scheme can already make what be call serious ill health payment under tax law to a member who have up to a year to live . that would be a change well worth make . my hon . friend have make another interesting point . he say that the Pension Protection Fund be there for when a pension fund fail , and that the Bill may be an incentive for viable pension fund that do not already use a 12 - month period to do so , and to mirror what the Pension Protection Fund do . will he , or perhaps the Minister , tell I whether there be an understanding of how many pension fund have a 12 - month provision ? will the Bill increase that in viable pension fund ? I grateful to my hon . friend for make a good point . I do not have those figure , and I do not necessarily expect the Minister to have they to hand , but we should look into that , and try to take that point forward . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech that I be sure most of we will have no difficulty agree with . in the lead - up to the Bill ' s introduction , have he speak to charity and other organisation about what impact extend the period from six to 12 month will have on people ' s real life , and on their family and friend ? I thank my hon . friend for that . yes , I speak in particular to the Marie Curie charity , which tell I of some very sad case . it be important to stress that the Bill refer to occasion when the pension fund or its sponsor company become insolvent , so the Bill be narrow in scope . however , he make a good point . the charity give I a number of example , and there be many other . that bring we back to my point that we should look to extend the 12 - month provision beyond the Bill to other pension scheme . the last thing that someone give a terminal illness diagnosis need be more financial problem . if there be anything we can do about that , I be happy to take it forward with the Minister and the Government . I thank my hon . friend for their intervention . determine the length of time that someone have to live fall to health professional , and it be a heartbreaking and difficult judgment to make . modern medicine , surgery and palliative care — such as that provide by the excellent Sue Ryder hospice in my constituency — and the general care provide by our NHS staff make that judgment even more difficult . I therefore feel that it be right to extend the definition of " terminally ill " from the very narrow band of six month to the more accommodating threshold of 12 month . that be fair not only to the people who be ill , but to those who have to make that very difficult judgment — a judgment that it be especially difficult for health professional to make when they know that a person ' s pension payment may rest on it . the Bill extend throughout the United Kingdom , and would come into force in England , Scotland and Wales " on such day or day as the Secretary of State may by regulation appoint " , and in Northern Ireland when the Department for Communities appoint by order . I be about to wind up , but I think my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire ( Sir Greg Knight ) wish to intervene again . my hon . friend be generous . I think he be refer to clause 2 ( 4 ) . be he entirely happy about the wording of that subsection ? the Bill could be pass with unanimous support from all part of the House , but under that subsection , a Minister could later decide not to implement the measure . we would be unable to do anything about that . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for mention that point . the Government have be very co - operative while I have be prepare the Bill , so I remain confident that they will not hesitate to name the day . technically , the Bill will not come into force until the Government decide that it will , but I be confident that that will happen . I thank my hon . friend for their intervention , and for all the reason I have state , I commend the Bill to the House . good morning , Madam Deputy Speaker , and thank you for call I so early in this important debate . let I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) on introduce this Bill . he share with I the prospect of join the rank of the pensioner in our community later this year . he fail to declare that in his speech , but I be glad to put that on the record for the benefit of member of the House . it be a time of life that we will be fortunate to reach , if we get that far . thank to the good work of the NHS , more and more of we manage to achieve pensionable age . as of last May , nearly 12 . 7 million people be claim the state pension . the over - 65 pensioner population in England and Wales have increase from 9 . 2 million in 2011 to over 11 million in the most recent 2021 census . pensioner represent some 18 . 6 % of the population , although now that the pension age be go up , the figure will be slightly different . my constituency probably share with my hon . friend ' s constituency the characteristic of have a significantly above - average proportion of the population who be pensionable , at 30 . 2 % . I mention that because , although the Bill be narrow in scope , it be possible that any of we , pensionable or not , could be diagnose with a terminal illness . although the Bill apply to member of define benefit or define contribution scheme , who be a subset of that population , and hopefully very few of they will have such a diagnosis , it be important that we provide equity to those who do , as he say so well . I therefore think that the objective of my hon . friend ' s Bill be entirely honourable and appropriate , and one that we should support . on the subject of pension , as we have the Minister here , I would like to raise a case that be bring to my attention in my advice surgery last Friday by a constituent , whom I will not name , who be a member of the Boots define - benefit pension scheme . the scheme be acquire by Legal & General , quite properly , last December . accord to my constituent , the new scheme administrator have decide , seemingly without consultation with member , to remove the option to take an early pension from the age of 60 , so that pension have to be take from the age of 65 . if that decision have be take without consultation with member , I urge the Minister to look into whether the trustee be duly authorise to undertake such a significant potential change in term for their member without consultation — I would not expect she to know the answer to that now . I have also write to the Secretary of State on this matter , because the Boots pension scheme be probably one of the large membership scheme of any retail business in the country . have put that on the record , I commend my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury for his Bill today , which I shall support . since we be put it on the record , I declare that I be a proud pensioner as well as an MP . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) for bring forward the Bill . while technical in nature , it address a much wide issue that concern we all . More than 90 , 000 people in the UK die in poverty each year , and the figure for my region be over 8 , 200 . be diagnose with a terminal illness be shatter , whatever a person ' s circumstance , but for those live in poverty the impact can be even more profound . on the news recently , I hear a devastating story of a woman name Helen , who be die of cancer and of cold . she talk of how she switch off her boiler because she could not afford to pay for heating . her cancer affect the circulation in her hand and foot and , when the cold start to creep in , she could not hold thing and be worried about fall . Helen envisage travel during her retirement ; instead she be stick at home worry about how she could afford to pay her bill in her last month . Helen have be work with Marie Curie on its campaign to ensure that everyone who receive a terminal diagnosis be grant immediate access to their state pension . as a society , we should be look out for and look after the need of those who be suffer . those who be terminally ill should not be leave to fight for every scrap of warmth . make end meet can become impossible once someone receive a terminal diagnosis . their expense go through the roof — their heating cost alone can be twice as high — often just at the point when they have to give up work because of their illness . cover the high cost of heating , travel to appointment , childcare and essential home adaptation with little or no income be leave thousand of die people and their family in a desperate situation . People of working age who die be twice as likely to spend their final year of life in poverty compare to people of pension age . access their pension early would give people back some dignity and independence . Marie Curie estimate that most people of working age who die have pay more than 23 year of national insurance contribution . as a civilised society , we should not put people through the burdensome and time - consume benefit process or interview with work coach that be inappropriate for a person who will never return to work . some patient have die wait for the welfare benefit they need , which do not seem right or fair . everyone have the right to the good end of life care and support . in Stoke - on - Trent , we be lucky to have the wonderful care provide by Dougie Mac , which in September be name the good charity to work for in the UK . local people be hugely proud of it , so I be delighted to hear that recognition of just how special the charity be to the people it look after , both in the hospice and in the local community , and to its staff . it be very much a local charity , support generously by local individual and business . last year alone , I hear of a group who canoe an intense 60 - mile journey from Fort William to Inverness , and other who cycle the 186 - mile " Game of Thrones " route . some hold a one - day book festival in Stoke - on - Trent , and one individual run the brutal Marathon des Sables — all to raise money for Dougie Mac . we should all show that much care and respect for people approach the end of their life . the small change in this Bill , from a six - month to a 12 - month approach , would help ensure that people get the financial help they need as quickly as possible in the most challenging of time . it would be a significant step forward , and all of the experience share by individual in the long process to get to this stage be valuable and important . we need to ensure that more people with a terminal illness can concentrate on make the most of the limited time they have leave , rather than worry about their finance . this must be a time spend in love and laughter , with dignity and compassion . I sincerely hope these change be implement quickly to ensure that no more people already face the most difficult time in their life have to wait to claim the support that they so desperately need and be entitle to , so I support the Bill . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) , who give an excellent speech about why this Bill be so important and will make a material difference to many people . to that end , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) for bring forward the Bill , because this be a very important issue for a number of people and the Bill set out some important principle . I want to come on to the important point make by my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire ( Sir Greg Knight ) about when the Bill will come into operation , because it deserve more explanation from the Government . for a person to find out that their illness can not be cure must be a terrifying experience not just for the sick individual themselves , but for their friend , family and love one . as a Parliament , we should be commit to alleviate the pressure face those near the end of their life . since the 1990 , the Department for Work and Pensions have provide access to key benefit through what be refer to as the special rule for end of life . these be benefit rule that allow people who be near the end of their life to get fast - track access to certain benefit . the special rule be first introduce in attendance allowance in 1990 , follow a recommendation by the Social Security Advisory Committee . attendance allowance claim be subject to a six - month waiting period , and the Committee be concern that some terminally ill people be die before that period have lapse . eligibility for the special rule be therefore limit to people diagnose with a condition that mean they be unlikely to live for more than six month , as establish in the Social Security Act 1990 . since then , the use of special rule have be extend to disability living allowance , employment and support allowance , personal independence payment and universal credit , all with the same eligibility criterion . the current pension legislation contain provision that allow a patient who be deem terminally ill to claim under special rule and get the high rate of financial help , and fast . Paragraph 25B ( 3 ) of schedule 7 to the Pensions Act 2004 and paragraph 12 ( 3 ) of schedule 5 to the Pensions Act 2008 both define the eligibility criterion for a terminal illness lump sum , which allow the patient to apply to exchange all their ill health benefit for a one - off lump sum payment if they be diagnose with a terminal illness and do not expect to live long than 12 month . the then Work and Pensions Minister say that this would be " use the same rule to define ' terminally ill ' as those that be use in the financial assistance scheme and in DWP benefit . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 14 July 2008 ; Vol . 703 , c . 1060 . ] historically , people eligible under the special rule have not have to wait as long as other to start get benefit payment , as no waiting period be apply . they be not require to go through medical assessment or face - to - face appointment , and in most case they have qualify for high rate of financial help . the form support a special rule claim be complete by a clinician and be call an SR1 . to access the fast - track route , people have to have be assess by their healthcare professional as have six month or less to live . this have become know as the six - month rule . my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury make the point about it be a healthcare professional who make the assessment . the Pensions Act 2004 establish the Pension Protection Fund , which provide compensation to member of eligible define - benefit pension scheme in case where the sponsor employer become insolvent on or after 6 April 2005 and the scheme lack sufficient asset to fulfil its pension liability up to the level of compensation offer by the Pension Protection Fund . the financial assistance scheme initially cover scheme that wound up between 1 January 1997 and 5 April 2005 . since its inception , it have undergone review and expansion in both coverage and the level of assistance provide . the scheme offer payment to member of qualifying scheme who be unable to fully secure their pension liability . currently , the Pension Protection Fund have the authority to issue a one - time lump sum payment to individual who be terminally ill and have not yet receive their protection fund compensation . similarly , the financial assistance scheme allow for the early disbursement of financial assistance in case of terminal illness . both the PPF legislation and the FAS regulation employ the same definition of terminal illness . it be currently define in pension legislation as if " the person ' s death in consequence of that disease can reasonably be expect within 6 month " . that mean that both the PPF and the FAS currently make payment when medical evidence show that a member have a life expectancy of up to six month . this eligibility criterion be set in line with the social security special rule for end of life provision for certain benefit , originally introduce in 1990 . the eligibility rule be extend to 12 month by the Social Security ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Act 2022 , which we all support . the Bill seek simply to restore the original policy intent that there should be an alignment between the Pension Protection Fund and the financial assistance scheme . for more than 30 year , the special rule have ensure that at this most difficult time people have have the financial support to which they be entitle , and that they get it quickly and easily . I be listen to my hon . friend ' s speech with great interest . he be provide a lot of detail , so I hope he will not mind my ask some specific question . he will be aware that the Pension Protection Fund do not necessarily pay up 100 % of what people would have get have their pension fund not become insolvent — and often , insolvency occur through no action of the employee themselves , but be about how the director of the company make contribution . he will also be aware that shortfall in the Pension Protection Fund be cover by a levy that be charge on other pension fund . I be almost certain that the effect of the change — which , as my hon . friend have rightly say , be support generally throughout the House — will be significant , but have he make an assessment of the cost change ? have he have any thought about what the implication might be for how the Pension Protection Fund might have to change its rule and / or what it might mean for the levy charge on other pension fund ? my hon . friend raise typically astute point that need to be consider . the short answer be yes , I have . if he will bear with I , I will come to that , because I have seek professional advice on the implication for those fund . I promise my hon . friend that I will come to that ; if he feel that I have not do so sufficiently , he can feel free to have another bash , so to speak . since the special rule be introduce , there have be significant advance in how the NHS treat and care for people near the end of their life , mean that many terminally ill people now live for long with their illness . give the advance , the then Secretary of State for Work and Pensions announce in July 2019 that the DWP would undertake an in - depth evaluation of how the UK benefit system support those near the end of their life . as part of that consultation , the Department seek feedback from the terminally ill , those who support they and clinician . much of the reasoning and finding from that report be directly applicable to the Bill . the purpose of the evaluation be to consider the policy and implementation of the special rule relate to people define as " terminally ill " . it aim to take a holistic view of the support provide , and take into account direct contribution from people near the end of their life , who share their first - hand experience of access support via the special rule , as well as from charity and organisation support they . as well as receive write evidence , the evaluation team hold engagement session , include an event for people live with or affect by motor neurone disease ; conduct telephone interview with people near the end of their life ; and meet charity that provide support for people near the end of their life . the study also take into account the view of healthcare professional who work with and support people approach the end of their life , through national expert palliative and end - of - life care clinical group ; and nearly 1 , 000 clinician from a range of profession , in England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , also have a chance to respond through a survey . their view should not be underestimate , as they play a large part in respect of access to financial benefit under the special rule , which be the bit I want to look at in a little more detail . the Department ' s finding agree with the purpose of the Bill , show that there be a consensus across all group that the Government should extend the current six - month rule and support for the Department for Work and Pensions to adopt a 12 - month end of life approach that would allow people in the final year of their life to claim under the special rule . an add benefit of the 12 - month approach be that it would also bring great consistency with the definition of " end of life " use by the NHS and right across Government . the overwhelming evidence of medical advance in the past 30 year , since the special rule be first implement in 1990 , demonstrate that the law in its current state be no long fit for purpose . in general , public health have change dramatically , both with the pandemic , and with the advance in pain relief and other trial drug that now make live with a terminal illness for long more likely . the leap and bound make in both the care for terminal patient , and the identification and diagnosis of these patient , have progress extensively . all form of palliative care have progress , from how people near the end of their life be treat and care for , and how their condition be manage , to how clinician define people near the end of their life . that be why the question from my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) be so important : it be because of these huge change that have take place . new approach in care have be develop use the Gold Standards Framework and the Daffodil standard . the " Ambitions for Palliative and end of life care : a national framework for local action 2021 - 2026 " NHS guidance have also lead the way in reform care for people near the end of their life . the Gold Standards Framework be a register charity and have be the UK ' s lead training provider for generalist frontline staff in care for people in the last year of life for more than 25 year . its aim be to enable a gold standard of care for everyone with any condition , in any setting , give by any care provider , at any time in a person ' s last year of life . that be focus on the medical side of thing , and this Bill hope to provide the equivalent standard in term of pension . both framework have be integral to the improvement in palliative care and the great life expectancy of terminally ill patient , because with well care and treatment , the long people will live , and hence the need for the amendment propose by the Bill . one of the large issue relate to the Bill be how clinician define who should be eligible for the special rule . the DWP survey show a consensus across all group that the current definition be not fit for purpose , for several reason . some patient who have fluctuate condition or uncertain life expectancy find it difficult to access the special rule , as their life expectancy be indeterminable . many condition progress rapidly and then plateau , and some condition do that regularly . two group of patient who struggle with that be motor neurone disease sufferer and cancer patient . in prepare for today ' s debate , I contact the Motor Neurone Disease Association to ask how it feel about the change and how it will affect people diagnose with MND . I be sure everyone in the House be familiar with the " Scrap 6 Months " campaign , lead jointly by the MNDA and Marie Curie , which my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) mention and which be support by thousand of campaigner across the country . they tell I : " this Bill will ensure that a great proportion of people live with MND will be " — able to receive — " terminal illness payment from the Pension Protection Fund and Financial Assistance Scheme . . . this be important give the context of the financial impact of live with MND , especially as symptom of the condition increase " . so , on that basis , they very much support the Bill . Macmillan Cancer Support play a large part in end - of - life care and have its national call centre base in my constituency in Shipley . it tell I that it be supportive of the decision to widen the criterion from six month to 12 month , ensure that those with a terminal diagnosis have timely access to financial support when they need it most . in some case , the six - month rule force clinician and patient to have very distressing conversation about life expectancy either too early or at the wrong time for they . there be two way in which this issue can be tackle . the first be the 12 - month rule , which be where we be with the Bill , mirror the end - of - life approach use by NHS England . the second be take out the timescale and instead use a clinical recommendation support by guidance , which do not have an explicit timeframe attach to it — in effect , look at the nature of somebody ' s condition . the first option be an increase in the term of life expectancy to 12 month , which be what the Bill would do . obviously , this approach align the welfare state with the work of the NHS , and so would make it easy for organisation across the UK that support people near the end of their life to understand the application of the special rule , because it make they all consistent . clinician have many difficult conversation when discuss end - of - life care , and this could be add into those conversation instead of be have separately , also save the NHS time . however , I just want to point out that any time - bind rule could be subject to the same problem , as life expectancy can fluctuate and nothing be certain — even within a year . there be therefore an argument for base it on a clinical diagnosis , rather than a fix term , which by definition be always go to be slightly arbitrary . will my hon . friend just clarify the position ? be he say that he would prefer the Bill to be amend , or be he happy with it as it stand ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his question . I support the Bill , because it be far well than the status quo , and it sensibly even up those situation , which be what my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury intend with the Bill — in effect , to ensure that the rule for benefit and pension be the same and that one do not diverge from the other . my point be that this should not be the last word on the matter , because it may not necessarily be the good outcome . it be a sensible measure to take , but there be a big issue here about whether — across benefit and pension — this be the right approach to take . my point be that we should not be wed to the idea that a time limit be the right way to do it . this matter therefore warrant consideration as to whether fix - time limit be the right way to go . the benefit of an open - ended time period clinical recommendation be that it would allow great access to pension under special rule for those who have an uncertain prognosis , many of whom still have difficulty access benefit , whether it be six month or 12 month . the drawback of that approach be that a broad definition of terminal illness would make it difficult for clinician to make decision about who be eligible , which could lead to people miss out . the aforementioned survey of clinician ’ view on this matter relate to the benefit system find that , when ask what they think the time criterion should be under special rule , 38 % of respondent prefer a 12 - month model , 34 % prefer a model without reference to a time limit , and only 10 % support the exist six - month model . that go to the heart of what my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire be say , which be that , whereas everyone agree that the six - month rule should be change , and that therefore my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury be absolutely right to bring forward the Bill , there be not much in it between whether people think it should be 12 month , or there should not be a specific time limit . those view should be express in this debate for further consideration , give the subject we be debate . the conclusion on this point from the Department be to make a legislative move to the 12 - month rule , which be a perfectly reasonable decision to make base on that survey . that be now codify in the Social Security ( Additional Payments ) Act 2022 , and the exact same reason have be apply in my hon . friend ' s Bill . change the six month to 12 month be clearly the most popular option , base on that evidence , and it bring it into line with the rest of the benefit system . it would maximise the opportunity to improve awareness of the special rule and provide consistency in their application . we should be make it easy for people near the end of their life to access their pension benefit and any other financial aid they be entitle to under the special rule system . the second argument take into consideration for access to special rule be awareness and communication . the DWP evaluation show that much more could be do to improve awareness , and respondent feel that the information and guidance regard access to special rule could be improve . again , we might want the Bill to say something about make people aware of the change in the rule , because it be no good have those change if nobody be aware of they . that be something else that need to be consider . of course , charity be vital in help people to make a special rule claim , as people be often unaware that there be financial assistance and support available from the Department for Work and Pensions for people near the end of their life . however , clinician can also play their part . apparently , as write in a DWP report , some be not aware of special rule or have limit knowledge of they . when the Department align benefit with the 12 - month end of life approach , it expect to be able to improve awareness among clinician by take advantage of training and educational resource and that , through those resource , the language should also be simplify . that be the Department ' s conclusion and I assume the same will be valid in this case too . on the point about the report , I should also mention that the clinician raise concern over the term " terminally ill " , which be use in the Bill . they say that the term be be use less and less these day , and patient be now more commonly refer to use term such as " end of life . " that be a change within the field of palliative care , and one that maybe could be take into account with the language in the Bill and in the rule that the Government use . what actually happen when someone try to submit a special rule claim ? be that something the Bill could make easy too ? People near the end of their life , or those who support they , provide the DWP with medical evidence that provide detail of their clinical condition , treatment and response to treatment . that be most commonly do by a clinician complete an sr1 form . that form can be complete by GPs , by hospital doctor , or by register nurse work in role such as advanced nurse practitioner , Macmillan nurse , clinical specialist nurse , or practice nurse with expertise in long - term condition management . that form can be submit in either paper or electronic copy , and , in England , by NHS staff use an online tool . as I say , some clinician be not aware of the special rule or have limit knowledge of they . therefore , the clinician who provide sr1s do not always fully understand the special rule and what need to be include in they . that mean some patient find get an sr1 or other medical evidence more challenging than it should be . in the DWP ' s survey of the clinician who have complete an SR1 form , the majority believe it be of value ; 73 % of respondent agree or strongly agree with the statement that the form be " an effective way of provide evidence to support a patient ' s benefit claim under the Special Rules criterion " , but 12 % disagree or strongly disagree . when ask to explain their reason for their view , the majority say the form be perceive as easy and clear to use , but some consider that it fail to capture certain information that they feel be important , particularly where the patient meet the definition but be receive active treatment , or where it be necessary to explain the detail of a condition other than cancer . if the Bill succeed , as I hope it will , and the change be make from six month to 12 month , that will offer an even big chance to develop a more cohesive approach between the Department of Work and Pensions and clinician , to ensure that the right people be claim special rule . in order to get benefit , there must be requirement for claim and way to claim . the Department find that more support around make a claim would improve the experience . it also receive feedback on what happen once a special rule claim be make . there be a consensus from those who feed back into the evaluation that have access to an online portal or some information on the progress of their claim would be helpful . I promise my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire that we would talk about the fiscal side of the Bill . I contact Tim Middleton , the director of policy and external affair at the Pensions Management Institute , about that — I thank he for give up his time . two question must be consider about the financial repercussion of the policy . first , how many application for full commutation on the ground of serious ill health be receive by the Pension Protection Fund scheme each year ? I be tell that the number be in double figure — it be really not many . I should say that Tim Middleton have be work in the pension industry since 1987 , and he have only ever encounter three case of a special rule be apply to a Pension Protection Fund scheme , so we can safely say that it be not a big number . the second question , which my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire rightly ask , be be the application period extend from six month to 12 month , as the Bill anticipate , what additional cost would the Pension Protection Fund incur ? a member be able to apply within the extended 12 month of a diagnosis , rather than six month , would be a change . Tim Middleton , who be an expert in the field — of course , if the Government have any different figure , we would all be delighted to hear they — have say : " whilst there be likely to be an increase in cost , it do not seem likely that this would be significant , and , in any event , for a scheme as large as the PPF , it be expect that these cost could be easily absorb . " that should give my hon . friend some comfort that the scheme will not be burden beyond its mean , but it certainly need to be consider . it would be helpful if the Minister let we know whether her assessment be the same as the one I have be give . by way of context , in the European Court of Justice judgment in the Hampshire case in 2018 , it be estimate that the additional annual cost to the Pension Protection Fund would be £ 215 million , and that it would affect approximately 1 , 200 member . the Bill change would see nothing like that figure . for completeness , I look at whether anything other country do could be usefully include in the Bill , base on their practice and experience . compare the terminal illness definition of country with comparable system , I find that Belgium use the phrase " palliative status " , which be define as " expect survival of a maximum of 2 month , due to one or more irreversible disorder and with the intention of die at home " . the Netherlands define it as " with an expectation to die within 12 month " . Australia and New Zealand use an " average life expectancy of less than 2 year " . in Canada , a terminal medical condition be a disease that " can not be cure or adequately treat and be reasonably expect to result in death within 6 month " . Spain refer to people who will " benefit from palliative care for example , those with an incurable , advanced and progressive disease ; limited life forecast ; low possibility of response to specific treatment … frequent crisis of need ; intense emotional and family impact ; impact on the care structure ; high demand and use of resource " . from those definition , we can see that there be no clear international definition of what constitute a terminal illness for the purpose of a welfare system , whether that be a benefit system or a pension system . some country , as we can see , have take a time - base approach , and other have go for a clinical definition . this be a wide area that need more consideration generally , but my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ' s Bill be exactly right to make the point that the two system — the benefit system and the pension system — should be exactly the same . there be absolutely no reason why they should not . whatever system we have in future , I very much hope that we will always be able to keep a consistency of approach , because otherwise it be not fair . on the Bill ' s commencement , my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire be absolutely right — to be fair , my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury set it out clearly in speak to the Bill , so it be not as if anything be be hide — to focus on the fact that the measure " come into force on such day or day as the Secretary of State may by regulation appoint . " I share his concern . we all think something be a good idea , the House of Commons pass a Bill , as do the House of Lords , but lo and behold , nothing happen . I think most of our constituent will find that to be an intolerable situation . can the Minister explain why we must have such a woolly starting point in the Bill ? I can not see the need for it . why can we not have a specific starting date ? surely , at the least , a " no later than " date — base on the reason any delay might be need — could be insert . it be important that the Minister explain why we can not have a specific date , why there might be a delay , and why we can not have a " no later than " date add to the Bill . I be pretty sure that we will all want to consider that again either in Committee or the subsequent stage . have my hon . friend examine clause 2 ( 7 ) , which give the Secretary of State the power to make transitional arrangement , so that a nine - month period could be introduce for a specific time . I do not understand why we be give the Government that flexibility . if the House and the other place approve the Bill , and the monarch sign it , it should become law and be implement . my right hon . friend make a good point . one duty of Members in scrutinise legislation and hold the Government to account be to ensure that on a day like today , when people be anxious to get through as much as possible , the Government do not sneak into the Bill a few power to change thing more easily in future — power that perhaps the House might not otherwise want to give they . at the moment , this House pass far too many thing that give the Government of the day sweep power to change thing without come back to the House for meaningful scrutiny . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to be wary of those measure . this be a fairly short Bill , but the most extensive part be clause 2 , which basically give the Government power to vary this and that , introduce the measure when they want , and so on . we should always be nervous about legislation that be a convenience for the Executive rather than a benefit for our constituent . it be incumbent on the Minister to explain why the Government need those power . be there a specific reason that each of those power have be add to the Bill , or be it a typical catch - all — " let ' s shove the lot in there just in case we might need it at some point in the future " ? we should always be wary of such measure . if there be a good reason that each subsection in clause 2 be need , let we hear it so that we can all make our own mind up about they . if they be not need and have just be shove in for a bit of convenience in case the power be need at a later date , perhaps the House might want to say , " well , we don ' t think you should have those power . if you want to do something different , you should come back at a later date and make that case . " I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response on that . those be perhaps thing that we could come back to in the Bill ' s remain stage , but in the meantime , I certainly support the thrust of what my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury be do . he should be commend for focus on something that be important to many people and will make a massive difference to their life , and he will be thank by many in my constituency and beyond . on that basis , I support the Bill ' s Second Reading . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) . I must warn the House that I do not have his great detailed knowledge of this subject , so I hope right hon . and hon . member will forgive my comparative brevity as a result . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) on table what be an excellent piece of legislation . be diagnose with a terminal illness elicit a whole spectrum of emotion for the individual , their family and their friend : initial shock , perhaps denial , then a struggle as they cope with the harsh reality of their prognosis and the plethora of emotional response that it entirely unsurprisingly generate . on top of that , many have to grapple with get their affair in order , add stress and anxiety , to ensure they can support themselves in their final day and month while also perhaps think ahead to provide for those they leave behind . we know from charity and campaigner that financial concern loom large in the mind of those enter the final stage of their life , precisely at the time when they understandably want to be focus on other thing . as such , I be pleased that this Conservative Government have take action to help those who be terminally ill by extend the definition of terminal illness from six month to 12 month . as have be say , the Social Security ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Act 2022 ensure that people can claim financial support in the form of personal independence payment , disability living allowance , employment support allowance and universal credit . that be absolutely right , so I be pleased that my hon . friend ' s Bill be before the House today , because it will amend the rule around the Pension Protection Fund to be largely in accordance with those other measure that be already in place . it be a simple administrative change that will allow terminally ill people to claim assistance from the Pension Protection Fund and Financial Assistance Scheme if their death can reasonably be expect within the next 12 month , rather than the current six month . it may seem a small step , but it be a hugely significant one that will provide certainty for terminally ill people and their family at a time of real stress and anxiety . I also concur with my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury that although the number of people affect may be small , the Bill send an important signal to pension provider more widely . I hope they will look at the Bill and the decision of this House today and reflect on how they might well look after people who be protect by their individual pension fund . the Social Security ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Act receive cross - party support ; I hope the same will be true of my hon . friend ' s Bill . I will certainly be wholeheartedly support its Second reading today . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) on bring the Pensions ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill before the House today for its Second Reading . the Bill seek to expand the eligibility criterion for receive terminal illness payment from the Pension Protection Fund and the Financial Assistance Scheme to all those with less than 12 month to live , an increase from the exist six month . that will bring eligibility in line with the Department for Work and Pensions ' own definition of terminal illness for the purpose of social security payment . the shock and distress cause by a terminal diagnosis for the individual and their love one can not be overstate . those with a terminal illness should have the dignity of spend the time they have leave in comfort ; their stress should not be far compound by financial worry . therefore , we wholeheartedly agree with the aim of the Bill . it will , of course , only benefit a relatively small number of people : it relate only to those who have a define benefit pension that be be assess by the Pension Protection Fund or the Financial Assistance Scheme . however , it be a step in the right direction , and I hope we can build on it to improve thing for all those live with a terminal illness , because at the moment , the reality be truly shocking . I pay tribute to the Marie Curie charity for all the work it have do to highlight the financial struggle of the terminally ill . research carry out by that charity in 2022 paint a harrowing picture : 90 , 000 people die in poverty in the UK every year , one in four people who die while of working age be in poverty at the end of their life , and one in six UK adult would be wholly reliant on benefit if they become terminally ill . the cost of living crisis have worsen since those figure be publish , so I fear that the situation be more severe now . as I say , the DWP ' s definition of a terminal illness for the purpose of social security rule be now set at " less than 12 month to live " , have be increase from six month by the Social Security ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Act 2022 . we support that legislation as it be the right thing to do , it and should provide some small reassurance to those in the most difficult circumstance . I question why the DWP do not look this issue at the time of the change . while the issue do differ — that legislation relate to benefit payment , while this Bill relate to workplace pension — it be important to have consistency , so that those with a terminal illness have clarity on their entitlement . with that in mind , I hope the Minister can offer some reassurance that the definition of a terminal illness will be consistent across the DWP and its various agency if this Bill make it on to the statute book . the conservative cost of living crisis continue to hit family hard . this government ' s reckless decision crush the economy , send mortgage rate soar and send energy bill through the roof . receive a terminal diagnosis be incredibly difficult at any time , but too many people be spend the time they have leave in poverty . that can not be right . the Government must do far more to help these people . I conclude by once again congratulate the hon . member for Tewkesbury on his dedication in bring forward this important Bill . it be a step in the right direction , and we fully support its aim . it give I great pleasure to confirm that the Government give their full support to this private Member ' s Bill . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) for bring forward what he say be a small and limited piece of legislation , but we have hear over the past hour and a bit how important these small change will be to those affect . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , my right hon . friend the Members for East Yorkshire ( Sir Greg Knight ) and for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) , for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) and for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) for their contribution . my hon . friend the Member for Shipley explain why the alignment be ultimately a good idea . as we have hear , a life - limit illness can cause unimaginable suffering for the patient and their loved one — and that be just at diagnosis , yet alone across the trajectory of the disease . many people have say that they feel as though they have be hit by an emotional tsunami , and we should do anything we can to help and support those near the end of life . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central poignantly outline some of the challenge that people can face at this stage in their life . many charity have be mention , but I pay particular tribute to Marie Curie , which often provide nurse who sit with people as they near the end of life . it be an incredible service for our constituent , and ensure that people do not die alone . its work be incredibly important — its motor neurone disease campaign have be mention — but we must also thank people in the hospice sector and more broadly across the NHS , particularly those who work in end - of - life and palliative care . we have hear much about the Social Security ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Act 2022 , which change the special rule process to allow simple and fast access to financial support through the benefit system . the change make in the Act cover the disability living allowance , the personal independence payment and the attendance allowance , and ensure that people at this most difficult of time could receive their support more quickly and easily . the special rule be then extend to universal credit and employment and support allowance through secondary legislation that come into force on 4 April 2022 . under those rule , claim be fast - track and a medical assessment be not require . no waiting period be apply , and in the majority of case the high level of benefit be award . since 1990 , eligibility under the special rule have be limit to those who have be diagnose with a condition that mean that they be unlikely to live for more than six month . the change that the Government make in 2022 mean that people receive certain social security benefit who be think to be in the final year of their life be show additional compassion and be able to receive that vital support six month early . when the 2022 regulation come into force , they be welcome by key end - of - life charity such as the Motor Neurone Disease Association , whose chief executive say at the time : " I welcome the announcement that change to the Special Rules will come into force next month . this change will enable more people live with complex and unpredictable terminal illness like motor neurone disease to access the support they need swiftly and sensitively . this be an important first step and we hope that this positive change can be enact for other applicable benefit as soon as possible . " Marie Curie also welcome the change , say that they would " make it easy for terminally ill people to access support quickly " , and that " the scrapping of the six - month rule for fast track access to benefit be a significant step forward . " Macmillan Cancer Support say : " patient deserve well co - ordination of care into the last year ( s ) of life and this change give we a brilliant opportunity to help they benefit from end of life financial support while have treatment , so they can make the most of the last year ( s ) of life . " this Bill take a further step in support those with a terminal illness by extend similar support through compensation payment make by the Pension Protection Fund and payment under the financial assistance scheme . as my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury explain , the Pension Protection Fund pay compensation to member of eligible define benefit pension scheme if the sponsor employer become insolvent on or after 6 April 2005 and the scheme have insufficient asset to meet its pension liability . member can claim their compensation payment before their scheme ' s normal pension age , generally from the age of 55 . the financial assistance scheme make payment to member of qualifying scheme that be unable to meet their pension liability in full . currently , member of the PPF who be not yet entitle to receive compensation may make an application to their scheme for a terminal illness payment if they be expect to live for six month or less . terminal illness be currently define in legislation as " if . . . the person ' s death in consequence of that disease can reasonably be expect within 6 month . " the Bill amend that definition to ensure that member with a life expectancy of up to 12 month can now receive the payment . it will restore the original policy intention of alignment between the social security special rule and the Pension Protection Fund . the same definition apply to the financial assistance scheme , and the Bill therefore amend that definition as well . the financial assistance scheme differ from the PPF in that a terminal illness diagnosis allow payment from the financial assistance scheme to be put in place immediately , rather than a specific lump sum be provide . my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire and my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ask what consultation we have carry out . as I think my hon . friend the Member for Shipley mention , we have consult general practitioner , consultant , specialist nurse and other medical professional . some may argue that the Government should take a more open - end approach and not put any time limit on the payment . that argument , as we have hear , may be particularly pertinent for those who have condition such as motor neurone disease , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , Parkinson ' s disease and a plethora of other condition that can make it exceedingly difficult for clinician and doctor to accurately predict how much time a patient have until the end of their life . unfortunately , there be not a clearcut , correct answer on how terminal illness should be define , so as my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury say , that should be leave to the professional . in recognition of that , the 2022 Act be precede by an evaluation in which the majority of clinician who respond say that a 12 - month definition be preferable , as it would bring the special rule for benefit into line with NHS practice and nhs initiative , such as the gold standard framework . the Department agree , and the 2022 legislation align the definition of terminal illness with that use in the NHS , provide consistency for clinician and tie the special rule into the NHS long - term plan to provide proactive , personalised and well co - ordinate care for all those in their final year of life . this Bill build on the previous legislation by align the definition use for the Pension Protection Fund and financial assistance scheme payment with that use more widely in the Department for Work and Pensions and the NHS . the Government believe that the 12 - month timeframe be appropriate for define the period for serious ill health payment in tax law . for an individual to meet the definition of a person in serious ill health , evidence be require from a register medical practitioner that the individual be expect to live for less than one year . the Pension Protection Fund may be a compensation scheme , rather than a pension scheme , but in many way it be treat as a pension scheme for taxation purpose . that mean that the Pension Protection Fund terminal illness payment fall under the category of a serious ill health lump sum . that allow it to be pay without trigger unauthorised payment tax charge on either the individual or the Pension Protection Fund . extend the definition of terminal illness to long than a year would open up member to significant tax charge on their terminal illness payment , which be not what the Government want at all . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ask about the impact on the levy . we believe that the cost to the Pension Protection Fund will be marginal . Most member will simply get their payment early . he also ask about pension fund have a 12 - month provision . the benefit provide will depend on scheme rule . we do not know how many scheme have such a provision , but we believe that many scheme already provide early access to lump sum for terminally ill member , or those with a life expectancy of 12 month or less , because that be allow under tax law . my hon . friend the Member for Shipley and my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire ask about commencement . as with any Bill that pass through both Houses , it will come into force on a day appoint by the Secretary of State . it be the intention for that to be as soon as practicable after Royal Assent , to ensure that all measure relate to the Pension Protection Fund and financial assistance scheme come in at the same time . I hear that my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow have write to the Secretary of State , and I will make sure that an answer come to he in a timely way . he ask who make the decision ; the answer be clinician , medical assessor and specialist nurse . in response to my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire , let I say that one can obtain a second opinion , and that go for all the illness that I mention . I thank all hon . and right hon . member for their contribution , and for the sensitive way in which they have approach this matter . I appreciate the " time - bind " argument that my hon . friend the Member for Shipley put forward , but these matter be always a challenge for clinician . I agree with he and my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central that a well conversation about end of life , and how we treat issue as we move forward into that stage of our life , would be a very good thing for we all . we should be a lot more discussive about it . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury for bring forward the Bill and all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution . these change will make a significant , positive impact for people near the end of their life by ensure that most pension fund member will be able to receive a payment at an early stage . that will give they the financial support they need at a most difficult time for they and their family , as well as help they plan more effectively to get the most out of the finance they be due . these change send a message about end of life : that the conversation must be alive and vibrant for we all , so that we do the good we can . I be pleased to support the Bill and wish it a speedy passage through both Houses . I call Mr Laurence Robertson to wind up , with the leave of the House . I thank the Minister for that response and the shadow Minister for her contribution . I also thank my right hon . and hon . friend for their speech and intervention . they all raise good point , but I think the most important one , make by my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) , be that the Bill take we in the right direction but should not be the last word on this issue . we must look at assess people in term of illness , because it be not just about time ; it be about the diagnosis and the seriousness of those illness . I be pleased that the Minister pick that up . we must look to extrapolate this principle into other pension payment and scheme , as I mention in my speech . finally , I be pleased that the Minister confirm that the Government intend to ensure that the Bill start to have an impact as quickly as possible after Royal Assent . I look forward to work with she and the Government on that basis . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Joint Enterprise ( Significant Contribution ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . before I begin , I pay tribute to the incredible people who have make it possible for we to be here today , challenge the shocking miscarriage of justice that be joint enterprise . I want to say a massive thank to Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association family and campaigner both inside and outside prison , some of whom be in the Gallery . their perseverance and determination have allow I to present the Bill . since the early day of the campaign back in 2010 , they have fight fearlessly and tirelessly against some of the most powerful british institution for truth and justice to get to where we be today . they have never give up , and the Bill be a result of their work . I be so proud to have the privilege of work alongside they and bring their campaign to Parliament . I thank the many other people who have support this campaign and help to raise awareness of and support for our demand . my deep gratitude go to Jimmy McGovern , the indomitable screenwriter from my home city of Liverpool , Colin McKeown , the talented northern irish film maker , their team and whole cast of the film " Common " , some of whom be in the Gallery . that film , bring to our screen a decade ago , accurately depict the injustice of joint enterprise . massive thank to LA Productions for so generously produce a half - hour condense version for we to show at our event in Parliament this week . I urge those who have not see " Common " to watch it — it be more powerful than " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , and I understand that it will be available shortly . I pay tribute to the work of Becky Clarke and Patrick Williams at Manchester Metropolitan University , who go above and beyond to produce research on the cost of joint enterprise and have remind we of the importance of not lose sight of its devastating social cost . their guidance and expertise throughout this process have be invaluable . I thank Felicity Gerry KC , Professor Matthew Dyson and Nisha Waller from the University of Oxford , who as part of a wide working group organise by the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies draw up the simple , common - sense wording of the Bill . I also thank they for their legal support during the campaign . their commitment to right this wrong turn in the law have help to bring the campaign as far as it can possibly go through the court . now , together , we have bring it to Parliament . I hope that today will be another step towards right this massive wrong . I thank the many hon . member who have take up this campaign and help we to get where we be today , notably my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) and the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) . I give special thank to my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) for his assistance by table an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill just this week that mirror the Bill we be discuss today . when I be inform that I have be successful in the private Member ' s Bill ballot , I be a bit like a frightened bunny rabbit in the headlight , but with the help and guidance of the hon . member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , I feel confident that I make the right choice by pick joint enterprise as the subject of my private Member ' s Bill . I also thank the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) for her constructive dialogue in the run - up to this debate . I congratulate my hon . friend on her excellent Bill . the work by all the people she have mention , include Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association , on the Bill have be so important . the Supreme Court have say that joint enterprise have be wrongly interpret by criminal trial judge for the past 30 year . do she agree that that be terrible ? I do , and I will come to that point later in my speech . I thank the cross - party sponsor of my Bill , notably the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , the esteemed Chair of the Justice Committee . his support throughout this process have be invaluable and have demonstrate clearly the potential of the Bill to create cross - party consensus . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . she mention the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . his support show the cross - party support for look at how a majority of our young people be wrongly criminalise and lock behind bar , and their life throw away . do she agree that this Bill be important , and that we should take the criminalisation of young people away from party politic ? I totally agree with my hon . friend ' s point about the criminalisation of our young black people . we need cross - party consensus . lastly , I thank my a - team , Becky and Charley , who have be truly amazing . before I begin my argument , I recognise that this be an incredibly difficult and sensitive topic , because behind each joint enterprise case there be victim of crime and their family , many of whom have lose love one in situation that most of we find difficult to comprehend . behind each joint enterprise miscarriage of justice there be people — love one , whole family — whose life have be tear apart by an unjust lifelong sentence where someone have be wrongly punish for the crime of another . my hon . friend be make an excellent contribution about a very important Bill . do she agree that many of the predominantly young people ensnare by joint enterprise come from inner - city black community ? their family be devastate and often lack the medium and political connection to mount an urgent and rapid legal case or campaign , so these young people end up spend several year in prison for an offence they do not commit . their life be subsequently damage severely . this Bill be very necessary . the injustice have go on for a very long time . I agree that the Bill will look at right those wrong and challenge those miscarriage of justice . can the hon . Lady confirm whether the leader of her party support the Bill ? I can confirm that the party will be look at this Bill when we be in power and when we get rid of — well , when we be in power . it be possible both to uphold the law by provide power to prosecute those who play a significant role in a crime and to prevent innocent people from go to jail . there be cross - party consensus that thing need to change and that it be now up to Parliament to act . that be what this Bill seek to do — no more , no less . do my hon . friend agree that the campaign on joint enterprise be not about guilty people get off , but about have a justice system that work for everyone ? the Chair of the Justice Committee and I co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on miscarriage of justice , and we believe that this be the big injustice in the criminal justice system . there be a grow feeling across the criminal justice system , include among senior judge , that the balance have to be get right . I totally agree with my hon . friend , and I will cover some of those point in my speech . I hope that the Minister will listen closely to the argument I put forward today and fully consider this opportunity to end this injustice , which have destroy so many life and place undue burden on the court , the prison system and the taxpayer . as the Minister will know , joint enterprise be the century - old legal doctrine that be intend to give power to prosecute people who be not the primary actor but nevertheless play a role in a crime , such as a getaway driver in a bank robbery . however , something have go profoundly wrong in the way the law have be use for the past 40 year , as the Supreme Court recognise in the 2016 landmark case of Ameen Jogee . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . research include the 2022 report from the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies have find that follow the landmark 2016 Supreme Court judgment , which have be expect to lead to a reduction in these type of prosecution and conviction , not only have there be no discernible effect , but the number of black people convict of murder have actually rise . do my hon . friend agree that that be one of the reason the Bill be need ? my hon . friend make a valid point on the consequence of the landmark case of Ameen Jogee , whose mum be in the Gallery today . People be be give mandatory life sentence for murder that they do not commit . thousand have be lock up for life because they have be deem , in effect , guilty by association . since that rule very little have change , with only one successful appeal , as be show in the research by the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies that my hon . Friend refer to . I compliment my hon . friend on bring forward this private Member ' s Bill . through her good office , I have have the opportunity to meet some of the family involve . to describe some of the case as egregious injustice be no understatement . one of the appalling thing I have find be the inconsistent way in which joint enterprise guilt by association have be apply . there be case where one might think it would have be apply , such as in the murder of Jay Abatan in 1999 . I would like to highlight the Justice for Jay Abatan campaign , which be still fight for justice 25 year on . I thank my hon . friend for raise that point and particularly for raise the Justice for Jay Abatan campaign , which be very similar to the Stephen Lawrence campaign . the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies suggest that the 2016 judgment have little to no effect on the number of joint enterprise charge or conviction . indeed , since 2016 there have be a new legal problem , whereby jury be deliberately not direct to consider the contribution that a person make to a crime , as in the case of Faisal Fiaz , who be in a park car that be street away from where the murder for which he be convict occur . only Parliament can fix this . a charge of joint enterprise too often lead to an assumption of guilt in the courtroom , with the defendant have to prove their innocence , turn our justice system on its head . this be a failure of our justice system , which be supposedly the good in the world , and an affront to the taxpayer , who be leave foot the bill for sloppy sentencing . to quote Jimmy McGovern ' s " Common " , " joint enterprise might allow it , natural justice do not . " if pass , my Bill will fix this wrong turn and help to return the law to its original intention . joint enterprise be currently wield as a blunt instrument by the court , allow people who have not make a significant contribution to a murder to receive a mandatory life sentence . lawyer and campaigner often describe the decision to prosecute or sentence someone to life as russian roulette . my Bill seek to enshrine in law the condition that a person can be prosecute under joint enterprise only where they be prove to have significantly contribute to a crime . this would raise the bar for prosecution and provide the jury with the tool to differentiate between defendant who deserve to face a mandatory life sentence for the role they play in a serious crime and those who do not . there be countless case where it be clear that we need a change in the law to provide jury with the basic legal test contain in my Bill . may I compliment the hon . Lady on bring forward this Bill ? I be very grateful to she , because it have enable I to look at some of the background information in the note that she send and at some of the judgment that the Supreme Court make , which I would not have be aware of . I be grateful to she for point out at the start of her speech that there be victim involve . we have to make sure that we protect they and their feeling , and that justice be see to be do . one of the concern that we on the Government side of the House have be that , in the past , people who be give life sentence for serious crime would have be out after six or seven year — life sentence do not mean life sentence . I want to make sure that when judge hand down a life sentence , it really be a life sentence . however , that intent stand directly at odd with the rule on joint enterprise . when someone who have commit a crime be sentence , I would not want to be in the position of see someone who be there but who have not play , in the hon . Lady ' s word , a significant part in the perpetration of that crime get catch up in that . do she not see that , without some of the change that she be make with the Bill , the intention of those of we who want life sentence to mean life would fall into an even great sense of legal jeopardy ? the hon . Member make some valid point , and these issue have be raise by the campaign group . life have mean life for people prosecute under joint enterprise — often 27 year and upwards , but start with 14 year . this be the miscarriage that we be look at . I want to give some example . Jordan Cunliffe be 15 year old and await a double eye transplant at the time he be accuse of complicity in a joint enterprise murder . his mum Jan be in the Gallery today . Jordan be nearly totally blind and unable to see the incident or to run away . despite the confession of two boy who be directly involve in the struggle that lead to the death of the victim , the judge charge Jordan along with four other , lead to a life sentence for a crime he do not commit . when Tommy be sentence for life for joint enterprise murder , the judge tell the courtroom , include his mum Lisa , who be in the Gallery today : " remarkably there be no evidence . I can ' t say you be at the scene or you carry a knife . there ' s no dna , no eyewitness . I don ' t have a role for you . but I ' m go to sentence you on a secondary role and give you an 18 - year mandatory sentence " . at the time of his conviction , Tommy be 20 year old . Dean Winston be sentence to life in 2014 for joint enterprise murder . his mum , Bee , be also in the Public Gallery today . Dean be 19 when he be send to prison for 24 and a half year . despite the confession of his co - defendant , Dean receive a long sentence than the man who commit and admit to the murder . those be just snapshot of wrongful joint enterprise conviction , from JENGbA family who have campaign for well over a decade to bring to light this grey area of the law . in their own word , this be a miscarriage of justice on the same scale as the Post Office Horizon scandal . People be be send to prison for crime they do not commit . I thank my hon . friend for high - light some of those case . one of the other issue with joint enterprise be that we have see young woman and girl criminalise for the action of their boyfriend . if we be honest , in some of those case — this be an issue that I have campaign on — a number of those young woman and girl be coerce or be be exploit , include sexually exploit , by those man . be this not why we need a change , so that we be not destroy those woman ' s life ? sadly , this be not just about young man ; it be also about a number of young woman who be be criminalise and sentence for crime they do not commit . I thank my hon . friend for those comment . I totally agree , and I will cover some of that later in my speech . with joint enterprise , it be often child or young people who be be put away for life . Felicity Gerry KC , who be also in the Public Gallery , have be instrumental in challenge the way joint enterprise legislation be misuse , especially in her role as lead counsel on the landmark 2016 r v . jogee case at the Supreme Court , and have help every step of the way with this Bill . Dr Gerry have provide some joint enterprise example , all base on real case : a boy cycle to and from an incident who have no contact with the victim ; a driver who drop friend off to collect drug and a fight happen outside the car ; a passenger in a taxi where other get out of the taxi and go to another area where a stabbing occur , and the passenger have no contact with the victim ; schoolchildren who gather for a fight and one of they die , but they be all prosecute , even when they have no contact with the victim and have no weapon ; child exploit to sell drug who get catch up in the action of other ; and even a woman look for her shoe during a violent disorder . in the debate on new clause 16 on joint enterprise in the Criminal Justice Bill Committee on Tuesday , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) mention another case , in which a woman who be a victim of domestic abuse be charge under the crime of joint enterprise and , because she plead not guilty , receive a long sentence than the person who abuse she and actually pull the trigger and kill someone . I be sure the Minister will share my concern about the way joint enterprise have be use in those case . I would be happy to write to he with detail , if he would find it helpful to follow they up . I hope he will come to the same conclusion that I have : that the new law need to change and we must therefore take the opportunity before we today . do my hon . friend agree that one of the problem with the current law be that it perpetuate a system whereby the fear of be convict under joint enterprise lead to innocent people plead guilty to less crime , and that this be an injustice as well ? I totally agree , and we all see that play out in the Post Office Horizon scandal . I believe that the case I have refer to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that the current law allow for far too broad an interpretation of complicity and have enable joint enterprise to be use as a dragnet for sweeping arrest and prosecution that can not be justify on the basis of natural justice or public safety , and that come at great cost to the taxpayer , place an undue burden on our overcrowded court and prison . let I follow up on the point make by the hon . member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) in relation to sentencing overall . although the Bill would have a radical effect on the family and the people suffer from this legal abuse , what be require be simply a clarification of the law . a consensus have now build up across the legal system — from practitioner express concern in court to member of the justice union , which include the Prison Officers Association and other — that Parliament be hold they back in secure justice for people . it be believe that there need to be a relatively minor change in the law to enable the court to dispense justice in the way that they wish to do so . I totally agree with my right hon . friend . that be what my Bill would do , by make a small change to the 1861 Act . during cross - party discussion with Ministers and shadow Ministers and at the Criminal Justice Bill Committee , I have yet to hear a persuasive argument put forward against this formula . I hope the Minister will agree that this wording be a common - sense approach that would keep the decision - make power with the jury , and perhaps strengthen the law by restore its original intention , remove those current uncertainty that give rise to the miscarriage of justice that I have discuss today . let I clarify that the Bill would cause no unintended consequence , or make it hard to punish people who have commit a crime , in line with the law as it be intend . one of the argument that we hear time and again be , " be you go to let the getaway driver get away with it ? " do my hon . friend agree that this Bill would not do that , and that there be no intention for it to do so ? the Bill that she be introduce be fair and balanced . I be with a senior retire High Court judge last night who say that it be about time that we put this matter right . I welcome my hon . friend ' s contribution ; that be exactly what the Bill be intend to do . to illustrate my point far , I shall turn to the 2010 Victoria station attack , which the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Newbury , refer to in Tuesday ' s debate at the Criminal Justice Bill Committee . in that incident , a group of young man chase and then attack another young man , who be repeatedly stab and die . the coroner could not determine who have strike the fatal blow , so the whole group of assailant be put on trial and a number be convict of murder and of manslaughter . they be clearly make a significant contribution to an awful crime . another commonly cite case be that of the racist killer of Stephen Lawrence . again , there be damn evidence that the many accuse do play an active and intentional role in his murder . my revised Bill would allow for their joint enterprise prosecution . another recent high - profile case concern the murder of a young woman in Warrington . both defendant be successfully , and correctly , prosecute under joint enterprise . my Bill be intentionally draft to allow the use of joint enterprise law in such case to prosecute multiple defendant , where there be clearly evidence of a significant contribution by the accuse to the death of the victim . it will be for the court to decide in each case what constitute a significant contribution , and it will form a basic legal test alongside many other use by jury to aid in their deliberation and protect against miscarriage of justice , while uphold the law as it be intend . in response to the joint enterprise amendment on Tuesday , the Minister recognise the importance of the law on joint enterprise and the consequence that result from conviction on which both she and I find common ground . ultimately , however , she be unable to support the new clause , say : " we think that it be too difficult to require the prosecution to prove a significant contribution " . — [ Official Report , Criminal Justice Public Bill Committee , 30 January 2024 ; c . 485 . ] follow that , I be grateful to meet the Minister yesterday to discuss the issue raise at the Bill Committee regard the language of " significant contribution " . she reiterate her concern that " significant contribution " could prove too difficult a legal test for the prosecution . in particular , she reference case where contribution to a crime be difficult to prove and where , with multiple assailant , it be impossible to tell who deal the final blow that cause the death of the victim . although I recognise the Minister ' s trepidation , I find that a disturbing and worrying argument that amount to an admission that , within our legal system , there be an area where we do not believe it be necessary to prove that a person must have make a significant contribution to a crime before lock they up and throw away the key — and , indeed , that the Government be content with this state of affair . it remove the burden from the prosecution to prove guilt and instead place the burden on the defendant to prove innocence . no other area of our law reverse that principle , and I hope the Minister will clarify the Government position on that and reconsider . I find it confuse that a 14 - year - old stab and kill a young girl in Liverpool , be charge with murder and sentence to life to serve a minimum of 13 year , while the young man mention throughout my speech do not commit a crime yet have be issue life sentence . joint enterprise allow the prosecution to use a racist gang narrative to imply guilt and persuade jury use prejudicial stereotype in place of cold , hard evidence . my hon . friend will be aware that the Crown Prosecution Service conduct a six - month trial that look at the racial bias , after legal challenge from campaigner , and the result be stark . in 190 case , involve more than 680 defendant , the CPS find that it disproportionately impact bme man and child age 14 to 17 , and that a whopping 93 % of joint enterprise defendant be male . that show that this law , as it be be use now , disproportionately impact too many young black man . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention ; I will address that point about the CPS a bit later . last year , the human right group Liberty submit one such case to the Criminal Cases Review Commission after 11 defendant , all black , be collectively convict and sentence to a total of 168 year in prison for a single murder . evidence include a rap video make online a year early , photo of some of the defendant use hand sign , and the allege favouring of the colour red . in that and similar case , the prosecution call police officer as expert to give their opinion on allege gang culture , a concept that carry with it racist stereotype intend to sway a jury . I believe that my Bill be the right approach . if there be no evidence of a significant contribution to a homicide , how can it be right that we prosecute for a mandatory life sentence ? it be precisely this justice gap that systematically drive prosecution and conviction base on inference , stereotype , gang narrative and the criminalisation of culture as a replacement for cold , hard evidence . it will be up to the jury to decide whether someone have make a significant contribution to a crime , and if a person play a part in a fight in which someone be kill , the test will clearly be meet for significant contribution . I urge the Minister to consider this carefully and , when he respond , explain to I and the family sit in the Gallery how we can justify continue to lock people up when we can not prove that they make a significant contribution to a crime . it may surprise the House to note that the CPS case management system do not currently enable joint enterprise case to be flag . however , in September last year the CPS report on a six - month pilot project , force by a legal challenge by JENGbA and Liberty . in my meeting with the Minister and her team yesterday , I be grateful to hear about the progress be make by the CPS in this area , and that by the end of this month the CPS hope to have in place system to flag joint enterprise case , so we will be able to analyse the datum . I be also pleased to hear more about the national scrutiny panel . I have write to the Director of Public Prosecutions to discuss the work far . it be definitely encouraging to hear that more work be be do in this policy area . it show that it be widely accept that there be an issue that need to be challenge . Parliament have a key role to play in that . datum from the six - month CPS pilot reveal that more than half those prosecute under joint enterprise be under 25 and that black people be 16 time more likely to be prosecute for homicide or attempt homicide under joint enterprise law . young working - class and black boy be be sentence for long than they have be alive for crime that they make no significant contribution to . it be truly astounding that nothing have be do about this soon ; it be a stain on our system and must be stop . on that note , I be grateful to have receive support from the UN Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent , which have raise concern about the impact of joint enterprise . I take the opportunity to read out a statement the group send to support my bill : " the Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent confirm the critical importance of the Joint Enterprise ( Significant Contribution ) Bill towards address the treadmill of conviction that young people of african descent be disproportionately subject to in the United Kingdom . the Bill need to apply retrospectively to remedy the injustice perpetrate by the law , which be directly in conflict with people . " it be a testament to the year of campaigning by the family that we have now receive this recognition of the injustice of joint enterprise by the UN working group , and I truly believe it be a case of when , not if , this legislation will be amend and put right . I hope that the Minister will help today by take a further step in the right direction . while data be scarce , the full scale of joint enterprise remain as yet unknown . the pilot study undertake by the CPS last year indicate that more than 1 , 000 people be try every year for joint enterprise , at a time when we have record backlog in the court and our prison be dangerously overcrowded . Parliament must take urgent action to end the over - zealous application of joint enterprise prosecution and sentencing . to conclude , a miscarriage of law be a miscarriage of justice . as I have lay out today , there be a cross - party concern and there be serious question about the letter of the law . first , let I congratulate the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) on bring this matter before the House . I believe she say at the start of her speech that she be as nervous as a kitten when she come out of the ballot with a high ranking . I do not think anybody would have recognise that , as she make a powerful case , and I commend she for that . I rise to oppose the hon . Lady ' s Bill and make the case that in many regard the law on joint enterprise do not go far enough . I will give some example . I also want to address the point make by my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) that for those of we who believe that " life mean life " , the case that she mention undermine our argument ; I do not think they do at all . when people say that life should mean life , they mean that they want honesty in sentencing and that the sentence hand down by the court be the one the person should serve . if we adopt that honesty in sentencing , many of the people that the hon . Lady mention in her speech would not be give a life sentence ; they would be give a fix tariff that they would be able to serve . therefore , the honesty in sentencing that I want to see , as do my hon . friend , judge by what he be say , will help in the case that the hon . Lady bring forward , because if we have that honesty in sentencing , we would not have these widespread life sentence be give out willy - nilly , which never in a million year mean life . this be only a short Bill , but it have wide - range implication . it would repeal section 8 of the Accessories and Abettors Act 1861 , which define a secondary party . there be three type of joint enterprise . the first lead to the creation of the 1861 Act in response to the case of the Crown v . Swindall and Osborne in 1846 , which involve two cart driver engage in a race . one of they run down and kill a pedestrian , but it be not know which cart and driver have perpetrate the fatal action . the court take the view that as both have equally encourage each other in the race , it be irrelevant which of they have actually strike the man , as they be both participate in the race , so both be hold jointly liable for the death ; this be about a situation where two or more people join in commit a single crime , in circumstance where they be , in effect , all joint principal . the case found the principle that the party must share a common purpose and make it clear to each other by their action that they be act on their common intention . each individual assume responsibility for the other member involve in the act . therefore , a participant in an offence can be convict even if the prosecution be unable to prove his or her precise role . it suffice that participation itself , whether as a principal offender or as a secondary party , can be prove and , as such , the principle of common purpose be codify in law in section 8 of the Accessories and Abettors Act 1861 . the codified offence read : " Whosoever shall aid , abet , counsel , or procure the commission … shall be liable to be try , indict , and punish as a principal offender . " the next landmark case , and second type of joint enterprise , cement the joint enterprise doctrine . in 1952 , Derek Bentley be convict for the shooting of a police officer . the actual murder be commit by an accomplice , Christopher Craig . Bentley be convict after he say the famous word , " let he have it , " which form a key part of the evidence for the case against he , as he be deem by the jury to be encourage the defendant . consequently , he be hold jointly responsible for the murder . however , as we all know , the conviction be quash on appeal . in effect , that be an example of the principle of where D assist or encourage p to commit a single crime , which be the test use by the Crown Prosecution Service to proceed with a prosecution . now , as we all know , for a jury to find someone guilty of a criminal offence , it must be satisfied that it be sure that the defendant both commit the crime , know as the actus reus , and have the requisite state of mind to carry out the crime , know as the men rea . an example be murder . to be convict of murder , an offender must be show both to have cause the victim ' s death and to have either intend to kill or cause really serious harm . another example be burglary . to be convict of burglary under section 9 ( 1 ) of the Theft Act 1968 , the defendant must be find both to have enter a building as a trespasser and at the time intend to commit theft or grievous bodily harm . joint enterprise relate to secondary liability , mean that a conviction hinge on the court ' s determination of what the offender could have reasonably foresee or anticipate , rather than what be explicitly agree upon or even intend . for example , if two people plan a burglary together , and one , with the full knowledge of the other , take a gun and shoot somebody during the course of that burglary , that would be see as a joint enterprise , as the person without the gun could be deem to have be able to reasonably foresee that the gun could be use to cause actual bodily harm to a third party . this be where the third type of joint enterprise come in , and it be of particular relevance to the Bill we be deal with today . until the 1980 , it seem that there be two strand . the first , refer to as the conduct element , require that the accessory have encourage or assist the principal to commit the offence , and the act of assistance or encouragement may be infinitely varied . the second be the mental element , which require that the accessory have the intention to assist or encourage the commission of the crime in the knowledge of any exist fact necessary for the principal ' s act to be criminal . if the crime require a particular intent , the accessory must have intend to assist or encourage the principal to act with such intent . in 1985 , we have the case of the Crown v . Chan Wing - Siu , which create a specific subset of secondary liability know as parasitical accessory liability — the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside touch on these example in her speech — which allow not only the principal offender and accessory to be prosecute for crime a , but also for a second crime , crime B , that the principal offender go on to commit . here p and d participate together in one crime , crime A , and in the course of it p commit a second crime , crime B , which D have foresee he might commit . this case lower the burden of proof for the mental element of joint enterprise , as a conviction could now be make on the understanding that the defendant have only to foresee that the primary offender intend to commit the second crime . some people argue that a number of innocent victim who do not play a significant part in the offence could have be catch up in that definition , as the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside , say . that possibility have attract particular attention in murder case , for which a life sentence be mandatory . in the word of the Justice Committee , " the mandatory life sentence for those convict of murder remove much judicial discretion to hand down appropriate sentence to secondary participant who may have play a minor role and may have have no intention that a murder or grievous bodily harm should take place . " Tim Moloney KC and Simon Natas , an expert in criminal law , argue for the abandonment of that principle , as it can lower the threshold for conviction in some case . they suggest that the prosecution often find it easy to demonstrate that the defendant foresee the action of the principal offender than to prove that the defendant intend for serious harm or death to occur . however , in its 2007 report on aspect of secondary liability , the Law Commission acknowledge that the principle be " severe " , but recommend its retention with certain safeguard . crucially , secondary liability be a common - law doctrine arise from the case that I have mention . accord to evidence give on 1 November 2011 to the Justice Committee by Jeremy Horder , professor of criminal law at King ' s College London and a former law commissioner , the rule on complicity be originally " draw up to accommodate the notion that people have different role in the commission of an offence " , and those rule have evolve over the year . in one of its report on complicity , call " participate in Crime " , the Law Commission comment that " at the core of the doctrine of secondary liability be the notion that D can and should be convict of the offence that p commit even though D have only ' aid , abet , counselled or procure ' p to commit the offence " . the Justice Committee ' s 2010 report highlight that the offence of joint enterprise play a large part in get conviction for who aid , abet , counsel or procure the commission of an offence , even though the principal offender do not carry out the intended act . Professor Graham Virgo highlight the inconsistency in the court ' approach to determine the mental state require for a finding of joint enterprise : while some case only require the secondary participant to foresee the commission of the offence , in other , the secondary participant must apparently foresee both the criminal offender ' s state of mind and the criminal act . in 2011 , before I be on the Justice Committee , it hold an inquiry on the common - law doctrine of joint enterprise . that inquiry be prompt by concern express to the Committee that the complexity and opacity of the doctrine could be the cause of injustice , whether to victim and their family or to defendant . that report be review in a short follow - up report publish by the Committee in 2014 - 15 . the Committee consider the law , criticism of the doctrine , the use of joint enterprise , its application in case of murder and gang - relate or group violence , and whether the doctrine should be enshrine in statute . the Committee ' s final recommendation be that the doctrine should be enshrine in legislation ; it state that " the lack of clarity over the common law doctrine on joint enterprise be unacceptable for such an important aspect of the criminal law . " in the year follow the Justice Committee ' s follow - up report , the Supreme Court rule in the case of r v . Jogee , which the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside , mention , that the court have take a wrong turn in pursue the concept of parasitic accessory liability . it hand down its judgment in February 2016 , rule that the previous interpretation of the law follow the Chan Wing - Siu case be wrong , and that there should be no separate form of accessorial liability . it give a correct example : " D2 should not be liable for offence b unless he intend to assist or encourage d1 to offence b . whether he do have such an intention or not will be for the jury to decide . the jury might consider D2 ' s foresight to be evidence of such an intent , but foresight would no long be sufficient in and of itself . " the judgment summarise as follow : " the unanimous conclusion of the court be that Chan Wing - Siu and Powell and English do take a wrong turning … the correct rule be that foresight be simply evidence ( albeit sometimes strong evidence ) of intent to assist or encourage , which be the proper mental element for establish secondary liability . " effectively , as a result of the Supreme Court ' s verdict , common law have already make the bar for prosecution higher again , as the mental element need for prosecution be now not only be able to foresee a crime , but foresee a crime as evidence of intent . the Bill be clearly be introduce on the basis that despite that judgment , common law still set the bar too low for the prosecution and , in some case , lead to people on the fringe of a group be prosecute when they be too remote from the murder to be charge with it . the Bill seek to reform part of the definition of joint enterprise and to add in reference to make a " significant contribution " . the liability on the basis of joint enterprise will then read , " Whosoever shall aid , abet , counsel , or procure the commission of any indictable offence , whether the same be at common law or by virtue of any Act pass or to be pass , shall , by make a significant contribution to its commission , be liable to be try , indict , and punish as a principal offender . " the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside , mention the amendment table to the Criminal Justice Bill by , I think , the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , which , in effect , mirror the measure in her Bill . I think — she do not make this clear — the amendment be withdraw in Committee , but she will no doubt correct I if I be wrong . reform the legal definition of joint enterprise require careful consideration of various factor , include principle of justice and fairness , and effectiveness in deter criminal behaviour . of course , the addition of " significant contribution " will be subject to legal interpretation . I ask the hon . Lady whether the leader of her party , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , agree with her Bill . I be not entirely clear from her answer whether he do — I think she say that he say he would look at it . I ask because as a former Director of Public Prosecutions , he have be invite in the past to give evidence to Select Committees in this House about joint enterprise , and it be fair to say that he be characteristically equivocal about whether he support it . I be not entirely clear on his position after read the evidence he give , although he go on to say , and this be relevant to the debate , " there need to be some caution if there be any amendment to it , but … one can understand the concern on either side . " when ask whether he would regard it as a serious limitation on his ability to successfully prosecute culpable people of very serious crime if he do not have the current joint enterprise route to take , he say , " yes , I think it would be , " so we should bear that in mind . the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside , mention the BBC drama " Common " , direct by the excellent Jimmy McGovern , who be a tremendous leader in his field . the programme follow 17 - year - old Johnjo , who give a lift to his cousin and his friend , only to find himself implicate in a stabbing . Johnjo sit in the car and do not even witness the stabbing , nor do he supply the knife . in fact , he apparently think he be drive his cousin and friend to get a pizza . the programme follow Johnjo and his family through the police and court system and show the devastating impact on the family . it be very powerful , as drama be design to be . the drama also show the life - altering , axis - shift impact on the victim ' s family . obviously , we should never forget that have a family member murder be absolutely abhorrent , and I know that no one in the House would wish that on anyone ; we have to take a balanced view on all these matter . I take the view that joint enterprise work reasonably well at the moment . however , as I say at the start of my remark , it have sometimes fail to get conviction where it should , rather than the other way around . former Director of Public Prosecutions Alison Saunders say : " in some case , it ' s not very clear because of the circumstance of the case exactly who do what , but if we know that everyone be participate in the crime then it help we to be able to prosecute they and to put those fact before the court . " she add : " if you ' re just stand there , we win ' t prosecute you . " the Crown Prosecution Service charge guidance provide further evidence of the approach for such crime . it state : " where d ' s role as an accessory be minor or peripheral and the offence in question be a minor offence , consider whether it be in the public interest to charge d at all . in particular , where a court be likely to impose only a nominal penalty on conviction a prosecution will often not be in the public interest . where d ' s role as an accessory be minor or peripheral but the offence be a serious one , consider whether a less serious charge than that charge against the principal be more appropriate . for instance , where the offence attract a mandatory or automatic or minimum sentence , the charge may be consider disproportionate to the culpability of D . in the vast majority of case there be likely to be an appropriate less charge available . however , in the unlikely event that no less charge be available , prosecutor must weigh carefully the merit of proceed with a charge for the serious offence , or not proceed at all . the decision as to where the public interest lie will depend on the fact of each case . " the guidance go on to address the public interest test in more detail : " where there be sufficient evidence to prosecute , prosecutor must go on to consider whether a prosecution be require in the public interest … this approach apply to all case involve secondary liability . " I say to the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside , that the CPS guidance be already pretty robust in ensure that people be not unduly prosecute for crime in which they play barely any role . accord to the guidance , they certainly should not be prosecute for the same offence as the principal person involve in the crime . that cover an awful lot of her concern . the more serious the offence , of course , the more likely it be that a prosecution be require . part b ) and c ) of paragraph 4 . 14 of the CPS code state that " when assess the seriousness of an offence , prosecutor should include in their consideration the suspect ' s culpability and the harm cause " to the victim ; that " prosecutor should take into account the view express by the victim about the impact that the offence have have . in appropriate case , this may also include the view of the victim ' s family " ; and that " the great the suspect ' s level of culpability , the more likely it be that a prosecution be require . " there be clear example in which a case be too complex and neither party be innocent , even if one party be substantially liable . one such example be the Crown v . Gnango , which involve the unlawful killing of Magda , a 26 - year - old polish care worker . Magda be on her way home from work in New Cross , south - east London , when she be shoot through the head with a single bullet . she be catch in the crossfire between two gunman in a car park . the two man be in a dispute and go there with the intention of kill each other . scientific evidence allow the police to identify the individual who fire the fatal shot . however , I think — as do the court — that that be irrelevant , and that both man should be consider guilty because they both play their part in her death . another case involve a wholly different situation be consider — even if it be give only minimal weighting — by the judge in Crown v . Gnango , as it also apply the doctrine of joint enterprise : Mansell v . Herbert ' s case . during the course of an attack on a house by a group of man , a woman be kill by a stone throw by one of the group at another person . by a majority , it be decide that all be guilty of murder . the Law Commission recommend retain the Chan Wing - Siu principle owe to the availability of two defence . under the first defence , a defendant can challenge a joint enterprise charge by demonstrate a fundamental difference between the agree - upon criminal adventure and the committed crime , which I think cover much of what the hon . Lady be say . the interpretation of that defence have lead to complexity as court grapple with determine what constitute a fundamental difference . the second defence rely on the defendant show clear and unambiguous withdrawal from the venture before the crime be commit , which , again , I think be a very pertinent point . while the law about withdrawal be less complex , it be deem overly restrictive . Moloney and Natas highlight the case of r v . Mitchell , in which the defendant be convict of murder , despite not have participate in a fatal assault , owe to her continued presence in the vicinity , suggest her ongoing involvement in the crime . the definition propose in the Bill will amend the defence applicable , and the defendant will now have to prove that his contribution to the offence be not significant . I mention early that I would argue that we need some change in the other direction , to secure more conviction in some case . Jimmy McGovern might want to cover some of these case in a drama to make the point as well , because as far as I be concern , these case be travesty of justice . let we take the case of Donald Banfield . his wife and daughter be convict of his 2001 murder , but their conviction be overturn despite its be accept by everyone — include the lawyer act for both of the accused — and record in the judgment in the case that Donald Banfield be murder , that his death occur between 11 and 16 May 2001 , and that he be murder either by both his wife and his daughter together or by one of they . those fact be not dispute , yet these two woman be free to walk around while that poor man be dead . it be outrageous that simply because neither will assist the prosecution with the case and tell they what really happen , nothing can be do to bring one or both of they to justice . then there be the murder of Kevin Patrick Lavelle in June 2004 . I meet the parent of Mr Lavelle , who have not only to live with the agony of lose their son but to face the ongoing suffering because no one have be convict of his murder . in the Court of Appeal Civil Division judgment of 18 April 2011 , Lord Justice Hooper say : " on 24 June 2004 Mr . Lavelle be fatally injure in a fight that take place at ' the Cricketers ' arm ' public house in Middleton Road , Banbury , Oxfordshire . he die in the early hour of 25 June 2004 . he be 29 year old . " the judge continue : " the cause of his death be aspiration of the content of the stomach result from two head injury to the deceased inflict by a heavy steel weight lifting bar belong to the deceased . it be common ground that the decease die in the course of a fight involve he , Mr Kirk and some , or all , of the first three respondent . in late March 2009 follow a coroner ' s inqu a verdict of unlawful killing be enter . " it seem very clear to everyone that Mr Lavelle be murder , and that he be murder by one of those people , yet no one have be successfully prosecute for his murder and , tragically , unless something change in the law — unless the law of joint enterprise be stiffen up — that will continue to be the case : no one will be bring to justice for that crime . finally , for now , there be the case of Andrew Jones , which the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside will know of very well because he be murder in her home city of Liverpool . I also meet the family of Mr Jones , and they too be devastate by the lack of a conviction in his case . I believe that at the inquest hold in 2008 , the Liverpool coroner , Andr é Rebello , conclude that only one person be responsible for kill Andrew on the basis of the evidence that he have hear . Mr Rebello do not name that individual in court , but I understand — the hon . Lady will be able to correct I if I be wrong , because she will know far well than I — that her local newspaper do publicly name the killer , and say that if it be not they , they should sue the paper . it seem that none of the people who be there on the night be prepared to say who throw the fatal punch , although obviously one of they know it be they and it be likely to have be witness by at least one other . yet this have happen under the current legal joint enterprise framework , and it paint a very different picture from the one portray by the Bill ' s supporter today . when I ask the Crown Prosecution Service about these case , Alison Saunders , then the Director of Public Prosecutions , provide a reply explain the issue involve : " turn to the general point that you raise , each of the case that you have highlight have raise very different issue and demonstrate that the law regard participation by a number of individual raise complex challenge . as you will appreciate , any change to exist legislation remain a matter for Parliament . the principle underpin the doctrine of joint enterprise have be develop over many year through court case and in recent legislation such as the Serious Crime Act 2007 . I be satisfied that these principle have be correctly apply in the case " . this be not a fault of the Crown Prosecution Service , but of the law . we should not forget that it be cause terrible heartache to family . as it stand , joint enterprise act as a deterrent . if this Bill be pass , it would water down the benefit of the current legal position when it come to the deterrence of crime . deterrence theory logically suggest that individual refrain from commit crime when the perceive cost or risk outweigh the potential benefit . in the context of joint enterprise , the threat of be hold accountable for the action of other may deter individual from participate in those activity where joint liability could apply . this deterrence mechanism operate on the premise that individual will prioritise self - preservation and avoid situation where they might be implicate in criminal conduct . its very existence serve as a deterrent by increase the perceive risk associate with criminal involvement . the prospect of face severe legal consequence , include lengthy prison sentence for crime commit by co - conspirator , can dissuade individual from engage in joint criminal enterprise . furthermore , supporter of joint enterprise , like I , would say that it foster a sense of accountability among group member , as they be aware of the possible reper - cussion of their collective action . high - profile case where joint enterprise conviction have be uphold , such as those involve gang violence or organised crime , often highlight the punitive outcome associate with joint enterprise conviction , which can act as a deterrent for potential offender . another good example of the benefit of joint enterprise be epitomise in a leaflet produce in the home city of the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside by a wonderful lady call Jean Taylor from an organisation call Families fight for Justice . it give out that leaflet to child and parent in Liverpool . I will not use it as a prop , because you would tell I off for do so , Madam Deputy Speaker , but in this leaflet , which she hand out to schoolchildren in Liverpool , she make clear the full repercussion of be involve in a crime that could be list as joint enterprise . she give an example of eight young man try for murder . they be all at the scene of the crime , but the court could not tell which one have perform the murder . because of joint enterprise , all eight be find guilty . the story show that someone do not have to personally commit the crime with a gang or group to be find guilty of the crime . she put in bold : " this highlight the risk your child take when be in a gang . " I commend Jean Taylor and Families fight for Justice for all the work they have do on joint enterprise and to deter young people in her city from get involve in gang . the hon . Gentleman be make a very complex argument , and I have be listen to it . there be some interesting material in it . he have be speak for more than half an hour , and some of we would like to contribute to this important debate . many of we agree with exactly what he have be say about the great need for radical reform in joint enterprise . I would have think he could join we in support the Bill . will he give the rest of we a chance to contribute to this important debate ? I be slightly surprised by the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention , because the Member propose the Bill speak for long than I have speak . it be her Bill . we have invent a new rule , it seem . I have not know it before , but the hon . Gentleman have be here long than I . apparently there be a rule that I be previously unaware of that the person who speak first on the Bill get to speak for the long . I do not know that be a rule . it be obviously one that have just be invent . I would have think he have be here long enough to understand that in this place we be suppose to have a debate . when the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside set out her position , that mean that people who disagree with she be entitle to set out their position , which might differ . I appreciate that the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) only like to hear argument with which he agree . this will be a novel experience for he , as today he will have to force himself to sit through somebody give an opinion with which he disagree . I know he do not like that , but I be afraid it be tough . the hon . Gentleman point out that I have be in the House long than he . I have always believe that this a Chamber where we have an honest , open and fair debate . I appeal to he to give other , such as I , a chance to make a short contribution . if he have another motive — not to make a good contribution to this debate but to talk the Bill out — that be another matter . will he be clear whether he will allow some of the rest of we to make a contribution ? I be go to allow everybody else to make a contribution to the debate . unfortunately , the hon . Gentleman , through his pointless intervention , have delay that from happen . I have zero intention of talk out the Bill . the Bill do not need to be talk out , because , as far as I can see , it be so flawed that it have no prospect of be pass anyway . the hon . Gentleman and his colleague will have plenty of time to make their case during the debate . I be simply make the alternative argument — the one against the Bill — and I be take a similar amount of time to speak against the Bill as the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside spend make the case for the Bill . I do not think anybody could possibly see that as unreasonable — aside from the hon . Gentleman , who , as I say , do not like hear argument with which he disagree . before I be interrupt , I be talk about Jean Taylor and Families fight for Justice . the hon . Gentleman would do well to speak to they and find out about their horrific experience . I can tell he that Jean Taylor , unbelievably , lose her sister in 1998 , her son in 2000 and her daughter in 2004 , all as a result of act of homicide , include act of joint enterprise . she have campaign for year to fight for victim and reduce crime . her work on joint enterprise , as I have demonstrate , have be invaluable . I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman would rather that Jean Taylor , her work and her personal experience be not discuss in the debate , but I will certainly not make any apology for mention her work and her terrible experience , which I suspect be great than his experience in this field . Jean Taylor have every right to have her view take into account by this place . with that — we could have get here a bit soon if the hon . Gentleman have not pointlessly intervene — I will just say that I do not see the same problem in joint enterprise that other do . I actually think that joint enterprise as a concept have be effective in ensure that our street and community be safe place than they otherwise would be . it have be effective in make sure that people be bring to account for some despicable crime when otherwise they would not have be bring to account for they . if anything , as I set out with the number of case I refer to early , the problem with the law on joint enterprise be that it be not work sufficiently — it be not draw tightly enough — to ensure that it be use by the prosecution service in case where , in my opinion , it should be use . it be not allow to use the law on joint enterprise because it have be so restrict through common law , decision by the Supreme Court and statute . I urge the Government not to agree to any of the change to joint enterprise seek by the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside , but to go away and see how we can use it to ensure that it well hold people to account and bring justice to the three family I mention . they have suffer from horrendous crime and not have the closure of see somebody bring to justice , even though they know who be responsible . how must that it feel for people to know , even under the current law , that one of the two or three people responsible for the death of a family member still can not be bring to account ? I ask the Minister to resist the hon . Lady ' s request and instead to look at how we can tighten the law . I think that would serve our community well , so I oppose the Bill . I thank the hon . member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) for his lengthy and constructive speech , from which I have learn a lot . he have reaffirm my belief that this area of law desperately need look at , whichever way we approach it . at every level at which I have take evidence with the all - party parliamentary group on miscarriage of justice . I be delighted to say that my old friend — and yours , Mr Deputy Speaker — Glyn Maddocks , who work with the APPG and have play such an important part in this campaign , be in the Public Gallery today . I will try to be fair to every Member by make a short speech . I have be campaign on this issue for a considerable amount of time . in the evidence we have take in the all - party parliamentary group , we have listen to all side of the argument , and we believe that something be wrong with the joint enterprise law . we have talk to everyone , include justice and the commission in Birmingham . they may have have difference in the way they nudge it , but they know that it have to be nudge somewhere to give justice in this country to everyone involve . I have a tiny point of disagreement with my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) . young black man be more influence by this injustice in the justice system , but the evidence we hear show that it be not a matter of colour , creed , race or religion ; a diverse range of individual have be affect unjustly by this law . my message today be that this be a good Bill and it should go forward , because the hon . member for Shipley and I can continue the dialogue and debate and get this right . I be sure that he would agree that , in the end , the job of Parliament be to identify thing that do not seem to be quite right and constructively work together to make they well . there be no devious plan or ulterior motive . the motive be that we believe there be injustice in the system at the moment , and we agree with judge , barrister , solicitor and everyone — let we all get together and change the law . I congratulate the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) on introduce this Bill and raise what I consider to be a legitimate and well - found concern about joint enterprise . she explain that joint enterprise be a legal doctrine that apply where person assist or encourage another to commit a crime — what many people would think of as aid and abetting , and where the offender be know as an accessory . common law develop by the court over many year have result in that somewhat archaic language of " aid and abet " shift to " assist or encourage " , a simple example be where somebody act as a lookout or a getaway driver for a burglar . in general , that be an important aspect of our law , and one with which I agree . the concern express by the hon . Lady primarily relate to case of murder , where one person unlawfully take the life of another with premeditation . murder be the most heinous of crime — let we be absolutely clear about that — so it be right that those involve in such a despicable act be properly punish , and it be entirely appropriate that the law recognise that a person do not necessarily have to have wield the lethal weapon or deal the fatal blow in order to have an element of responsibility for an unlawful and premeditated killing . it be not difficult to see that an absolute obligation to identify unequivocally the particular individual in a group who directly and personally cause the death of a victim could , would and have lead to no person be convict . the prospect of two or more people blame each other in the knowledge that none would be find guilty and thus sentence be no figment of the imagination , and would be an appalling failing of the justice system . the concept of share responsibility for as serious an offence as murder be therefore , I believe , an important one in our justice system , and the principle of joint enterprise be itself a sound one . however , beyond that starting point be a great deal of nuance . the fact around crime , even those as horrific as murder , be not always black and white . for that reason , I believe the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside be right to bring attention to this subject . I agree with much of what she say in her speech , and I do so partly as a result of my experience in the criminal justice system prior to come to this place . during the course of many year variously as a magistrate , a member of the Youth Justice Board , a non - executive director of what be then her Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service and a member of the Sentencing Council , I encounter numerous people who have be either accuse or convict of offence under joint enterprise . usually that be right , but sometimes it be not — and on occasion it be blatantly wrong . as have already be mention , right hon . and hon . member will be very familiar with the ability of television drama to highlight miscarriage of justice , for example through ITV ' s excellent recent series , " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " . as we have hear , 10 year ago we see another powerful drama , Jimmy McGovern ' s " Common " , which be inspire by the real case of a young man sentence under joint enterprise . it be a powerful piece of television , highlight the difficulty surround the legal doctrine of common purpose . I be grateful to the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside for remind we of that drama when she show an abridge version of it at a meeting she hold early this week in Parliament with the campaign group JENGbA , which have be widely refer to already — many member of the group be in the Gallery today . numerous of they have relative serve lengthy prison sentence under joint enterprise , and I be grateful that she give I the opportunity to speak briefly to those family at that event . as we have hear , Dr Felicity Gerry KC , the lead barrister in a high - profile appeal case , have set out a number of scenario in which someone could be convict under joint enterprise despite have limit or no involvement in the crime . the hon . Lady go through a very full list , but I think it be worth mention just two or three of they to highlight why there be a legitimate concern here . although anonymize , these example be all base on real - life case . they include a boy cycle to and from an incident , who have no contact with the victim ; autistic child who find it difficult to assess what other will do ; child who be exploit to sell drug and be catch up in the action of other , and even a woman look for her shoe during a violent disorder . all those scenario describe circumstance in which people can be convict of serious offence despite make no significant contribution themselves to that crime . it be the question of the degree of involvement that this Bill seek to address . it be important to acknowledge that concern over the application of the doctrine of joint enterprise have be recognise . as we have hear , in 2016 the Supreme Court rule in the case of r v . Jogee that the law on joint enterprise have take what be describe as a " wrong turn " for more than 30 year . the result be that only those who intend to commit or assist a crime , rather than those who might have foresee it , could be properly convict . however , research by the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies suggest that the judgment have have little to no effect on joint enterprise charge or conviction , and furthermore that appeal that be anticipate as a result of that judgment have not be allow . consequently , in and of itself , the 2016 Supreme Court judgment have not address a number of the fundamental concern about joint enterprise . that be why I believe the proposal in the Bill warrant detail consideration by the Government , even if they can not , for good reason , accept the Bill itself today . the word " significant " , which the hon . Lady seek to introduce , carry a meaning that be widely understand in court and that a judge could adequately describe to a jury . it be not an extremely high threshold . the word propose be not , for example , " substantial " , and the concept of a " significant contribution " will depend on the individual circumstance of the offence . I contend that it would be perfectly feasible for lawyer for both prosecution and defence to put argument to a jury so that the jury , properly instruct by the judge , could determine whether or not there have indeed be a significant contribution to the offence by the defendant . I would point out that the word " significant " feature throughout sentence guideline use by all court in England and Wales . indeed , it be use in the sentencing guideline for murder , where consideration that judge should take into account include , for example , whether there have be a significant degree of provocation or a history of significant violence or abuse towards the offender by the victim . I know that the Government have some justifiable concern about the term " significant " in this legislation that need to be think through and fully address . I therefore hope that the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside may consider pause the progress of her Bill to enable that full consideration and to allow for joint enterprise legislation that will definitely work in the way that she rightly intend . I reiterate that I be not suggest that the entire concept of joint enterprise be wrong . I agree with the Lord Chancellor , who say last October that abolish it " would mean that a lot of people who have help or encourage the commission of offence get away — in some case , with murder . " — [ Official Report , 16 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 72 . ] but I fear that the balance be not right at present . I acknowledge that the Crown Prosecution Service publish extensive guidance on its website , which outline when the Crown would seek to push for a joint enterprise conviction , but it be clearly not work perfectly . I also acknowledge some of the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) . I agree absolutely that deterrence be important , and I join he in praise those who work in their community to dissuade people , child in particular , from become embroil in crime . he be also right to highlight other miscarriage of justice , where people who should have be prosecute have not be . that be not tenable either , but two wrong do not make a right and two injustice do not cancel each other out . joint enterprise be an important and valuable concept , but at the moment its application be undermine that value and carry the risk of diminish confidence in our justice system . I repeat my congratulation to the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside on draw attention to this topic . while I accept that the Government may have good reason for not support the Bill today , I hope that the Minister will commit to consider a review of how joint enterprise be apply . it be a pleasure to follow the informative speech from hon . member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) — we share a surname , and I too be a magistrate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) and support she extremely important private Member ' s Bill , and my heart go out to everybody who have lose somebody to murder . it be important that the law work as it should in this country . the Supreme Court say that joint enterprise have be wrongly interpret by criminal trial judge for the past 30 year — a long , long time . the Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association campaign group , which my hon . friend have be work closely with , have be do a lot of important work on this topic . as she say , the principle be right , but the law be open not only to interpretation , but to abuse . the judicial system be riddle with bias , and this law make that bad in many case . it be nearly four year to the day since I stand in this Chamber to raise the case of my constituent Reshawn Davis , whose only crime be be a1 in the wrong place at the wrong time . Mr Davis serve two month in prison due to the joint enterprise law , and that sentence have have a devastating effect on he and his family . some will say that the joint enterprise law be not all bad , and they would be right . it have lead to some high - profile conviction , such as bring some of the racist murderer of Stephen Lawrence to justice , for which we should all be grateful . but it have also see many innocent people send to prison for crime they do not commit . no one who believe in how the law should work could approve of that . imagine if everyone be find guilty by association . it may be unwise , but it be not illegal , to be friend with someone who be a liar or a cheat . if it be , Mr Speaker , plenty of mps in this place would be arrest . some will be surprised to learn that joint enterprise have be apply to predominantly child and young adult , of whom 57 % be from an ethnic minority background . it be not only wrong , but lazy and unjustified to use the law in this way , criminalise a whole group of child and limit their life chance , just because they may have know somebody from school . those of we who have spend our life fight for justice be acutely aware — my hon . friend make a very strong point . do she agree that there be a sort of perverse incentive on the police to be quite lazy about investigation of often serious incident , because they know that , at some point in the future , they can deploy the law of joint enterprise and therefore do not necessarily have to get hard evidence against every single one of the people who may have be in the vicinity of the crime , but not participant in it ? I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . yes , it be lazy . it also mean that we have a target - drive process rather than an informative - drive process , which need to change . the system penalise and have a disproportionate effect on people of colour . those with high melanin be judge more harshly because of the colour of their skin . if a person be Afro - Caribbean , they be eight time more likely to get stop and search , five more time likely to die in police custody , and 16 time more likely to be charge under joint enterprise than their white counterpart . it be absolutely fundamental that our legal system be fair and can be trust by everyone no matter the background or the colour of one ' s skin . it be the cornerstone of our democracy . as a civil society , we must aim to hold criminal to account and invest in good policing , good law and good judge . it be time to reconsider the implication and the unintended consequence of joint enterprise and remove the harm that it have do to too many innocent people whose family be with we today . I pledge my support for the Bill . although I know the Government may have reservation about some aspect of it , I hope they will commit to my hon . friend ' s Bill and bring it back to the House , so that we can have a system that be fair and right for all . I shall be very brief , because , clearly , there be a mood in the House to take the Bill forward . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) on produce this Bill , and take the opportunity to thank many people over many year who have be campaign on this . Jimmy McGovern have be mention as have all of those involve in Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association . I first meet they with my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) about 10 year ago . as member of the Justice Committee , we be able to persuade the Committee to undertake an investigation into the case . I have never forget the power of the evidence that they bring forward of the effect on family . I have meet many of the family affect , include those in my constituency . I hear how young people be ensnare into the criminal justice system , because of an incident that take place . sometimes they know the people from school . sometimes , they happen to be on the same bus , or in the same vicinity on the street . it do not mean that they either commission or take part in the criminal act that take place . as a result , they receive a criminal sentence . I spend a day — again as a member of the Justice Committee — listen to young people in Feltham describe why they be there and what have happen . it be eye - opening and instructive to learn of the life opportunity they have lose because of the use of the joint enterprise law . I do not know whether my right hon . friend be aware of this , but I get involve in this matter when , as chair of the Westminster Commission on Autism , I discover the number of young people on the spectrum who be get involve in these case . that be how I get involve . it be remarkable that there be such a link . do he agree that we should be careful of that as well ? my hon . friend make a very important point . look at the make - up of the imprisoned youth population as well as the adult estate , we find a wholly disproportionate number of people who be on the autism spectrum or other spectrum , because of the complication of their life . as my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) correctly point out , a wholly disproportionate number of young black people be take into custody and get prison sentence as a result of the law of joint enterprise . I think everyone accept that there be a problem here , and the Bill introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside offer a way to take this issue forward so that we can reform the law to ensure that each person who receive a sentence be convict because there be evidence against they as an individual , not because of an association that they happen to have with somebody who have commit a crime . if someone live in an inner - city area , they be likely to spend a lot of time with a lot of people , some of whom commit crime and some of whom be criminal . it do not mean that everybody else be a criminal . we almost get into a mood of collective attack on young people because of their association with people who have do bad thing , so this Bill be an important step forward . I understand what the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) be say , and he make a very interesting and important contribution . there have to be some clarification of the law . I understand that the Minister will express some reservation about this Bill . however , I hope the Government will encourage the Bill to progress today , so that they can go into discussion with my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside on the way we can take this issue forward . this be a parliamentary opportunity to right a wrong — that be what we be here for , and it be what Friday debate be all about . it be also about come to listen to the hon . member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) , and I be grateful to he for his 30 - minute speech — sometimes they be long . it have be a very effective debate , and I hope the Minister will understand that those of we who support this Bill do so out of a genuine concern to ensure there be a proper and effective system of justice in which people can have confidence . in an intervention on my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central , I make the point that it be too easy to get prosecution by use the joint enterprise law . it should never be easy to get a prosecution ; it should be effective to get a prosecution against somebody who have commit a crime . a few week ago , I speak in a debate on knife crime . get prosecution before the court be an issue that we have all raise in this House and that our constituent have go through with we . it beggar belief that victim who be grieve and have lose close family member be try to get their case before the court , yet we be see people be convict just because of where they be , the music they have listen to , who their boyfriend be or who they know . this be totally unacceptable . my hon . friend make a very powerful point . like she , I represent a constituency where , sadly , we do experience knife crime and death by knife crime . I always visit the family that be victim of knife crime to try to share their pain at what be a horrific experience . I ask the Minister to recognise the importance of the issue and the burden of the argument that have be put forward by those of we who strongly support this Bill . I hope he will be prepare to have discussion with my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside and the promoter of the Bill to see whether it be necessary to table any amendment in Committee . I do not want to hear warm word that , at some indeterminate point in the indefinite future , there will be a proposal come forward to deal with what we all acknowledge to be a wrong . we have be down too many cul - de - sacs before , and this be an opportunity . let we take the opportunity to right a wrong in our criminal justice system . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) on her success in the private Members ' Bills ballot , and I be pleased to be respond to the second Reading debate on her Bill today . it be important that this issue have be bring to the House ' s attention . child and justice be an area of concern for many when joint enterprise be consider and it have be campaign on for several year . the Bill highlight that , but I be aware that an amendment similar to this Bill have be table to the Criminal Justice Bill . before I go far into the discussion of this Bill , it be right to say that although it be critical of joint enterprise , and there be very convincing argument for amendment to it , joint enterprise be also a necessary tool in the criminal justice system , as I will explain far . I thank all member who have participate in and contribute to this debate : my hon . friend the Members for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) , for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) , for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) and for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) ; my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) ; my hon . friend the Members for Birkenhead ( Mick Whitley ) and for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) ; the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) ; the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) ; and the hon . member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) . I have also note the many comment make by the hon . member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) . have listen to the debate , the clear overall message be that joint enterprise need to be review . as we have hear , it allow an individual to be jointly convict of the crime of another if the court find that they be involve in the commission of the crime . there be a strong case to tighten the definition currently use to ensure that justice be fair and proportionate . as in the case of r v . jogee in 2016 , the Supreme Court have rule that joint enterprise have be wrongly use for 30 year — that be extremely concern . the ruling state that it be not enough for the prosecution to prove that the defendant foresee the possibility of violence occur . instead , the prosecution should now prove that the defendant intend to encourage or assist the person who commit the crime . yet , a list of controversial joint enterprise case continue to this day . the Manchester 10 case , which many in this Chamber will know , be try under conspiracy legislation , but activist say this mirror crime prosecute in the UK as joint enterprise . the trial ' s use of drill music to convict the 10 defendant have also be criticise ; this be a common feature of joint enterprise prosecution for defendant from minority background . I be aware of the campaign by art not evidence that aim to stop the criminalisation of those who engage in rap and drill music . do my hon . friend agree that it be important that we do not judge people by the music they listen to ? judge one music to be violent , as against another genre , be a very subjective measure . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend on that ; she make a very meaningful point . there be lot of word in lot of different type of music , and we should not be judge by that . I have also meet Janet Cunliffe , a co - founder of Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association — JENGbA — whose son be imprison under joint enterprise . she be a tireless campaigner , who have share in the experience of her son ' s sentence . in 2020 , JENGbA release a research report write by academic at Manchester Metropolitan University argue that woman be negatively impact by joint enterprise . it state : " woman be often marginal to the violent event , with almost half not present at the scene and almost all never have engage in any physical violence " . and yet , as the report find , woman be be seriously penalise . JENGbA have highlight the case of a teenager , Carrie . she be 15 year old when , in the early hour , she be walk with two other old people . they have all be drink and a fight break out with another group of local adult . one person from the other group be kill by an injury cause by a broken bottle . in the summing up of the case , the judge acknowledge that Carrie be so drunk she do not have the ability to join in with a fight . the judge warn that " mere presence be not enough there must be some form of participation " . during the trial , judgment be make about Carrie ' s character and not her action . that become central to her prosecution . the offence be commit by a 35 - year - old man . the jury find the man guilty of murder . Carrie , 15 year old at the time of the event , be find guilty of manslaughter . the report find that there be many other woman like Carrie in prison . I have be critical of joint enterprise , but there be a place for it in our court and the wide criminal justice system . joint enterprise have help to secure conviction that otherwise would not have be successful . the conviction of some of the man who kill Stephen Lawrence be secure use joint enterprise legislation . by use joint enterprise legislation , it be find that it do not matter whether Gary Dobson and David Norris carry out the killing ; rather , it be important that they be part of an attack that could end in serious harm . indeed , it do . it have also be successfully use to prosecute paedophile ring and those who commit economic crime . that should not be forget . I be glad that the Bill do not seek to abolish joint enterprise in its entirety . Labour have previously say that it would look to reform joint enterprise , and that remain our ambition . furthermore , the Lammy review in 2017 advocate for the reform of joint enterprise law . in particular , recommendation 6 say : " the CPS should take the opportunity , while it rework its guidance on Joint Enterprise , to consider its approach to gang prosecution in general . " with regard to that recommendation , the CPS commence a pilot to monitor joint enterprise homicide and attempt homicide case in February 2023 . the result be concern . black people make up only 4 % of the UK population , but accord to the CPS , under joint enterprise case , black defendant make up 30 % of case load . it be also reveal that joint enterprise prosecution disproportionately affect child , young people and man . there have be progress on gather more datum , with the commencement of a full national scheme in all CPS area . the CPS have say that a report of homicide and attempt homicide case bring on a joint enterprise basis will be produce annually , and it will contain a breakdown by the protect characteristic of ethnicity , sex , age and disability . I believe that the CPS today convene a scrutiny panel with a focus on joint enterprise case in which evidence of gang association be a feature . let I be clear : the Bill be perfectly reasonable and commendable . however , for the good chance of proper reform , it be important to wait until the CPS have build up more datum before legislation be use to tackle the problem . we can solve the issue only when we have the full picture ; that way , the law can work as intend . many from across the political spectrum believe that change need to happen . there be some case of people be convict of serious crime despite make no significant contribution to they ; we have hear such example give from across the Chamber . it be not in the public interest to prosecute those who have not make a significant contribution to a crime . I be interested to know whether the Minister agree . in reply to an amendment on joint enterprise in the Criminal Justice Bill Committee , the Government say : " there have be example of case law since the Jogee case that show that approach be fairly apply . " — [ Official Report , Criminal Justice Public Bill Committee , 30 January 2024 ; c . 484 . ] what be the Minister ' s view on the report disproportionate impact of joint enterprise on diverse community ? the Government must end the criminalisation of child and young people associate with rap and drill music , and put in place protective factor to ensure that they be not disproportionately criminalise under joint enterprise . I be not sure what point the hon . Lady and Labour Members be make when they talk about the disproportionate amount of people from various ethnic minority who have be prosecute under joint enterprise . be she say that the Crown Prosecution Service be institutionally racist ? be she say that jury be institutionally racist ? be that the allegation she be make from the Labour Front Bench ? that be an interesting intervention . I find it concern and alarm that hon . member in this place do not appear to be aware of how racism and discrimination act . so much evidence and information , and so many report , inquiry and review on the subject have come out of this place and many other institution and public organisation across our country for many year . I find it alarming and disturbing that he question that in the way he do . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I thank the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) for introduce the Bill . I know the issue be of significant interest to she and indeed to other Members of the House . however , I must say at the outset that the Government be unable to support the Bill in its current form . I will explain our reason for that later in my speech , but let I begin by say that the Government understand and recognise the importance of the law of joint enterprise and the consequence that result from conviction for such crime . we recognise that they can be extremely difficult for defendant and their family to accept , but equally the impact of any crime be devastating for the victim and their family , particularly when the crime be murder . for any government , there be a need to ensure that any perpetrator who commit a crime , or aid , abet , encourage or assist in one , be bring to justice . victim and their family especially have an expectation that all those involve in that crime , particularly a crime as serious as murder , will be prosecute . we have hear powerful and sincere speech from both side of the House , and I pay tribute not only to the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside , but to my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Philip Davies ) , the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) , my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) , the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) , the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , and the hon . member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) . for the benefit of the House , I will give further explanation of the law on joint enterprise and how it work in practice , and then I will outline why the Government be not supportive of the Bill today . we have all read the headline about joint enterprise case — the individual who be charge and convict of crime , despite state that they do not commit they or be not there when the crime occur . however , more often than not , those headline reduce to a few sentence extremely complex case involve a significant body of evidence that need to be consider in detail in order to truly understand what happen . that be rightly the job of the independent court . as many right hon . and hon . member have mention , joint enterprise be a complex area of law . it be a common - law doctrine that can be apply to most offence , and generally apply where a person assist or encourage another to commit a crime . the principle that apply to joint enterprise case remain the same whatever the offence , and apply equally to plan and spontaneous act of joint enterprise . where two or more individual be involve in commit a crime , the party to the offence may be class as principal or secondary party . each offence will have at least one principal , although it be not always possible or necessary to identify who the principal be . a principal be the perpetrator of the substantive offence , and a secondary party be one who aid , abet , counsel , procure — more commonly know as assist — or encourage a person to commit the substantive offence without be the principal offender . it be a fundamental principle of the criminal law that an accessory to a criminal offence can be try , convict and punish of an offence in the same way as the principal , even if it be not their hand that personally strike the blow , ransack the house , smuggle the drug or forge the cheque . where they encourage or assist those physical act and have the necessary intention , the law say that it be right that they too be find guilty . similarly , an accessory to a crime share culpability precisely because they encourage or assist the offence . no one doubt that if the principal and the accessory be engage together in , for example , the armed robbery of a bank , which be mention , the accessory who keep guard outside be as guilty of the robbery as the principal who enter with a shotgun and extract the money from the staff by threat of violence . nor do anyone doubt that the same principle can apply when , as sometimes happen , the accessory be nowhere near the scene of the crime when it eventually transpire . the accessory who fund the bank robbery or provide the gun be as guilty as those at the scene . sometimes it may be impossible for the prosecution to prove whether a defendant be a principal or an accessory , but that do not matter so long as it can prove that they participate in the crime as either one or the other . that say , the threshold for anyone to be prosecute and find guilty under the joint enterprise principle be very high . they must intend to assist or encourage the commission of the crime , and therefore must know of the exist fact necessary to make it criminal . if the crime require the principal to have a particular intent , the secondary must intend to assist or encourage the principal to act with that intent . will the Minister give way on that point ? with the great respect to the hon . Gentleman , I be not go to take intervention . there be other Bills that need to be debate , and it be important that the Government ' s case be put . we have have a lengthy debate . section 8 of the Accessories and Abettors Act 1861 provide that a secondary party can be prosecute and punish for the indictable offence as if they be the principal offender . that be the provision that the Bill seek to amend . until the judgment give in the case of r v . Jogee , the court have identify three way in which liability for an offence commit with other might arise . the first be where two or more people join in commit a single crime in circumstance where they be , in effect , all joint principal — for example , where a group go on a shoplifting spree , take good out of shop without payment . in such a scenario , those involve be joint principal . the second be where a person encourage another to commit a single crime ; an example would be one person provide another with a weapon , so that they can use it in a robbery . the person provide the gun would be liable as an accomplice . the third be where two or more individual participate together in a crime and , in the course of commit that crime , such as a robbery , one member of the group commit a second crime — for example , he shoot the security guard . the other member of the group may be prosecute as accessory if they foresaw that the person with the gun be likely to use it . this type of joint enterprise be know as parasitic accessory liability . parasitic accessory liability be crystallise in the case of r v . Powell , which involve two defendant who go to a drug dealer ' s home to buy cannabis , during which one of the defendant shoot the drug dealer . both be convict of murder ; it be hold that the other defendant have foresee that the other party might use the gun , and he be therefore convict as an accessory . that case adopt the reasoning set out in the case of r v . Chan Wing - Siu , which involve three defendant who break into a victim ' s flat , with one defendant stab the victim to death and wound his wife . all three defendant be convict of murder , which result in the principle that if two or more people set out to commit an offence and , in the course of it , one of they commit another offence , the second person be guilty as an accessory to the latter crime even if he do not necessarily intend the commission of that offence ; it be enough that he foresee it as a possibility . the precedent be therefore establish that a secondary party to a joint enterprise would be deem to have intend to encourage or assist every one of the principal ' s offence . however , as we have hear , the case law move away from that principle as a result of the Supreme Court ' s decision in r v . jogee . Ameen Jogee be initially convict on the principle of parasitic accessory liability for the murder of former Leicestershire police officer Paul Fyfe in 2011 . the Crown court hear at the time that Mr Jogee have " egg on " his friend Mohammed Hirsi , who stab Mr Fyfe in the heart . Mr Jogee argue that he be not inside the house when the incident take place and could not have foresee what his friend intend to do . he be convict of murder , with a minimum custodial sentence of 20 year . Mr Jogee appeal against his conviction for murder to the Court of Appeal . follow this , in October 2015 , he ask the Supreme Court to review the doctrine of joint enterprise and to hold that the court take a wrong turn in Chan Wing - Siu and the case that follow it . Mr Jogee argue that the Chan Wing - Siu decision be base on a flawed reading of early authority and questionable policy argument . the respondent dispute those proposition and argue that even if the Supreme Court be persuade that the court take a wrong turn , it would be for the legislature to decide whether to change the law , since the law as lay down in Chan Wing - Siu have be in place for 30 year . the Supreme Court hand down its decision in Mr Jogee ' s case in February 2016 . will the Minister give way on that point ? I have already say to the hon . Gentleman that I be not go to give way . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . what be go on ? there be a feeling at the moment that junior Ministers will not take intervention , which be against the whole spirit of a Friday open debate . what be the matter ? all I want to know be whether the Minister be content with the joint enterprise situation at the moment . will he please tell the House that ? order . it be the decision of the person who be on their foot as to whether or not they take an intervention . the Minister have decide not to . with the great respect to the hon . Gentleman , I give my reason early . it be not because I be try to curtail this debate ; it be because other debate be due to take place after this one . in answer to his substantive question , I be outline the Government ' s position on joint enterprise . in consider Mr Jogee ' s case , the Supreme Court consider the issue of parasitic accessory liability and conclude that a person should not be guilty merely for foresee that an accomplice might commit a second offence during the course of the original plan crime . it consider that the law should revert to the well - establish rule that exist in relation to other type of joint enterprise offending — that is , that a person can be guilty of offence commit by other member of the group only if he or she intentionally encourage or assist those offence to be commit . where somebody participate in an offence that involve a clear risk of harm , and death result , although with no intention that it should happen , he or she could still be convict of manslaughter . this lead the Supreme Court to conclude that the law have take a wrong turn 30 year early , by equate foresight with the intent to assist . the correct approach be to treat foresight as evidence of intent to assist in the crime . follow the decision , Mr Jogee be clear of murder by the Court , but retry and find guilty of manslaughter . his previous sentence of life imprisonment with a minimum of 20 year be replace by a fix term of 12 year . as a result of the decision reach in Jogee , parasitic accessory liability no long apply as a basis for criminal liability . however , this narrow change to the law on joint enterprise have be widely misunderstood as mean that all conviction under joint enterprise would now be find not guilty on appeal . in circumstance in which parasitic accessory liability previously apply , the principle applicable to all case of secondary liability now apply . the decision in Jogee effectively resolve what the Government view as the most troubling aspect of the joint enterprise law . the Government be aware that the ruling in Jogee be initially welcome by the academic world and family of convict offender , but the change in the law also appear to have be widely misinterpret as apply to joint enterprise overall , when the change be much more limited — that is , the change relate only to case involve parasitic accessory liability . this have obviously lead to defendant ' family feel far disappointment that the decision in Jogee have have little or no impact on those serve time in prison for such crime . let I turn now to appeal , which serve as an important corrective function for individual , whether to correct a miscarriage of justice , such as the conviction of someone who be factually innocent , or to correct a legal error , such as a harsh sentence than be legally permissible have be impose . they also serve important public function in ensure that the criminal law be interpret and apply consistently and predictably . I know that the substantive injustice test have previously be raise in the House in connection with joint enterprise — specifically , in respect of whether legislative change affect the validity of a conviction under the previous law . the Law Commission be consider that issue as part of its full and extensive review of the law in relation to criminal appeal and procedure . on 27 July 2023 , the Law Commission publish an issue paper seek evidence on whether reform to the law on appeal in criminal case , include the test apply by the Court of Appeal and the Criminal Cases Review Commission , be necessary . this will help to inform the wide consultation paper on appeal law that be plan for publication later this year . the Law Commission intend to produce a final report with recommendation in 2025 , and the Government will consider they . it be worth make the point that before anyone be charge with a crime , whether as part of a joint enterprise or not , the Crown Prosecution Service will consider prosecute only if the case satisfy the full code test set out in the code for Crown prosecutor . that test have two stage : the first be the requirement for evidential sufficiency , and the second involve the consideration of the public interest . at the evidential stage , a prosecutor must be satisfied that there be sufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction . that mean that an objective , impartial and reasonable jury — or bench of magistrate , or judge sit alone — properly direct and act in accordance with the law , be more likely than not to convict . it be an objective test base on the prosecutor ' s assessment of the evidence , include any information that he or she have about the defence . a case that do not pass the evidential stage must not proceed , no matter how serious or sensitive it may be . if the evidential stage be satisfied , the prosecutor must then go on to consider the second stage and whether a full prosecution be in the public interest . have set out the background , let I move on to the Bill before we , the purpose of which be to amend section 8 of the Accessories and Abettors Act 1861 . the amendment to section 8 appear to propose that for a person to be " try , indict , and punish as a principal Offender " , they must " aid , abet , counsel , or procure " the commission of the offence by " make a significant contribution to " the commission of an indictable offence . the Government note that the declare purpose of the Bill be to well reflect a defendant ' s actual contribution to a crime where this be commit as part of a joint enterprise . we also note that the propose change to section 8 retain both its application to indictable only offence and its territorial extent , which be to say that the Bill propose that any amendment to section 8 will continue to apply in England , Wales and Northern Ireland . the Government be unable to support the Bill because it be technically flawed , and the overall impact of such a change will need very careful consideration . as I say , joint enterprise be an extremely complex area of law — on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I do not wish to drag you into the debate ; I be simply request a procedural clarification . the Minister have just say that the Government be unable to support the Bill in its current form . in other word , they be not support it today . it be procedurally correct , be it not , that the Government could allow Second Reading and then delay any Committee proceeding until after the consultation on the Law Commission ' s proposal and its examination of the issue overall , and amendment could then be table ? if the Government fail to do that , it be difficult to see — unless they be commit themselves to introduce legislation — whether there be a serious or imminent proposal to reform the law in this instance . I just wish to clarify that , because a great many people watch the debate will be confuse by the process that we be go through . the opportunity be still there for the Government to allow the Bill ' s Second reading , thus bring forward a reform that they may well wish to support at a later stage . the case that the right hon . Gentleman have just state be correct procedurally , but after the Minister have finish his speech I will call Kim Johnson , with the leave of the House , to see what the Member in charge of the Bill wish to do . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . section 8 of the 1861 Act be intrinsically link with other inchoate offence such as those specify in section 44 to 46 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 : intentionally encouraging or assist an offence , encourage or assist an offence believe it will be commit , and encouraging or assist offence believe one or more will be commit . it be also link to section 44 ( 1 ) of the Magistrates ' Court Act 1980 , which make similar provision to that contain in section 8 of the 1861 Act , but in relation to summary only and triable either way offence . of key concern , however , be the fact that the propose change to section 8 would place a requirement on the prosecution to identify the precise nature of a defendant ' s role in aid , abet , procure or counsel the commission of the crime commit in order to prove that the defendant have make a " significant contribution " — a threshold that do not currently need to be meet . this change could lead to difficulty in secure a conviction and therefore bring offender to justice , even when there be significant evidence that the defendant do participate in the crime , simply owe to evidential difficulty in try to establish the precise role that each party play — that be to say , whether they be a principal offender or an accessory — and how much weight should be give to those role in term of their " significant contribution " , which be not define . it be also unclear whether this change be actually intend , as the Government believe that the state intention of the Bill be to clarify , and not to amend , the law on secondary liability . an additional concern be that no definition have be provide on what be to be determine by " significant contribution " . without such a definition , that would mean that a perpetrator ' s contribution to an offence could be determine differently , with the bar be either low or high depend on the assessment undertake by the specific jury in question . in effect , there may be no real parity in such assessment , which in turn could lead to appeal on the basis of how a significant contribution to a crime have be assess when compare with other such case . that could result in an incoherent framework and would jeopardise the certainty of the law . I be conscious of the time , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside again for her Bill , but the Government must oppose it for the reason that I have outline . with the leave of the House , I thank everybody who have contribute to my debate today , and particularly to the parent in the Gallery from Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association . I thank the Minister for put forward the Government ' s case . he do say that he be not support the Bill today , so I be take that positively . I ask he whether he would consider review that . give that we be push for time and there be other Bills to be debate today , I be willing for the debate to be adjourn to another day . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) debate to be resume on Friday 21 June . Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( amendment ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I apologise to the House , but my vocal cord will support only a short speech and I will need to decline intervention . livestock worry be an issue of significant concern for farmer and rural community . it cause much distress and cost to animal and farmer . it be already an offence through the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) Act 1953 , but the police have seek great power to more effectively detect and enable the prosecution of such offence . the Bill provide for the inclusion of attack as well as worrying as offence . it extend the area cover beyond the land to a road or path , in order to address attack where livestock be move to different part of the farm . it provide the power of entry and search through warrant and allow dog to be detain to avoid further attack while an owner be await trial for such an offence . it allow for more modern way to gather evidence from a dog , include take dental impression and other relevant sample , and update the fine that can be impose . the Bill will include camelid — alpaca and llamas — in the definition of livestock for the purpose of the 1953 Act . in keep this speech short , I be conscious that I have not be able to answer several of the question that people inside and outside the House may have on why this or that specific issue be not cover in the Bill — or at least not yet . I know that the Minister have a good briefing pack and may cover some of those point . however , I want to thank various group , include the National Farmers Union , for their support of the Bill . when the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill be set aside and the Government explain at the time why that be , I pledge to the House that the Government would support our manifesto commitment in that Bill to be enact through single - issue Bills . that be now happen , include through this Bill . we want to see an effective deterrent to this kind of harm to livestock , and I believe the Bill will achieve that . I certainly hope to speak to it more in Committee . I therefore commend the Bill to the House . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) on her perseverance in not only present this Bill , which I know she be interested in when she be Secretary of State , but manage to get here and deliver her speech today despite her affliction . I will speak very briefly . I should declare my entry in the register as a farmer , include of livestock , and my interest as a dog owner . one of my dog have have occasion to chase deer — they be not categorise as livestock , I do not think , in the Bill — in wood , which can be a cause of considerable distress when she do not return despite our entreaty . I rise on behalf of farmer across the country , but in particular in my constituency in Shropshire , where a quarter of all sheep across the UK be produce from within an hour of Craven arm , in the centre of my constituency . there be a great many livestock farmer , and sheep producer in particular , along the Welsh border , as the House will appreciate . this measure be in considerable part direct at help those farmer with these unfortunate incident . a survey of NFU mutual member — that be the insurance arm of the National Farmers Union , of which I be a member ; it be my insurer — estimate that the cost of dog attack on farm animal be £ 1 . 8 million in 2022 . this be a real and present issue for livestock farmer , in particular in spring — the time of year we be about to enter — when sheep be lamb or on the point of lamb . if pregnant ewe be chase , it can lead to the abortion and loss of the lamb they have carry for month . it can impact not only on farm income , but on the health and wellbeing of the livestock manager themselves if they have to deal with dangerous dog cause trouble to their livestock . if the Bill proceed to Committee , I hope that some consideration will be give to the requirement to keep dog on a lead not just in open field but on open common land . there be many common along the Welsh border in my constituency , most of which be graze by sheep . it be important that , if sheep be present , people keep their dog on a lead on a common , which be not the normal practice in many of the common that I visit locally . that might need to be look at in Committee . I be conscious that this will be a short debate , so I will conclude by assure the Minister that the Bill have my support . it be a great pleasure to speak to the Bill introduce by my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , which I fully support . as you will know , Mr Deputy Speaker , she be well know in this House as be the main organiser of karaoke session . if her voice be in full throttle , I be sure she would have make her case with all the gusto with which she belt out song at those karaoke evening . alas , we will have to wait for another day for that . this be an important Bill . in my time in Parliament , I have be involve in amendment to the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 and , more recently , in my private Member ' s Bill on hare course . this Bill get the fact that it be not about the dog but about owner . it be about the possession of the dog . it be about try to improve the behaviour of dog owner . Mr Deputy Speaker , I hope that you will allow I a point of levity — it be kind of serious . my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) be about to speak . I fear that her contribution will include a story about her dog Violet , a lovely cocker spaniel . I therefore feel that I need to own up to something . it be one of those day when Back Benchers be ask to go canvass in a by - election . obviously , the Conservatives be look forward to a resounding victory in that by - election . I be join in a small group of Conservative Back - Benchers by my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n and some other . we be knock door to door , and someone have to hold the card and mark down people ' s voting intention . my hon . Friend decide that she would do that , and she entrust to I the safe custody of her lovely dog Violet . my hon . Friend ask I to go to house no . 1 and meet the family . I go to that door in that particular street , and immediately hear bark from inside . I take Violet and move she behind I . the lady answer the door and say , " Don ' t worry , he ' s on a lead . " a few second later , her husband leave with a dog — it be the dog that be on the lead . he leave to one side , and my eye carefully follow the dog , with Violet protect behind I . it be only when the gentleman get into his car that another dog come out and attack poor Violet . one can imagine my hon . friend ' s feeling , barely three minute after she have entrust I with the dog , when I run down the street with Violet in my hand , blood rush from her neck . my point be not only to put on record my apology to my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n . I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) will be laugh , because he be there , too . my point be that control of animal be a risky business , whatever the circumstance . control of dog with the good of behaviour be a risky business . the Bill seek to ensure that that behaviour be keep to the high standard and , importantly , to bring up to standard some of the power that the police need to enforce the law . one of the issue relate to the Hare Coursing Bill be that the police do not feel that they have the appropriate measure , in particular the ability to seize and detain dog . in those instance , the dog do hare coursing be be gamble upon , and therefore be valuable to the owner . but in all case the ability of the police to take away the dog and to charge the kennel have a deterrent effect . I be pleased to see those provision in this Bill . I be also pleased , perhaps unusually , to see clause 4 , which give a justice of the peace the power to authorise the police to enter and search a premise . a survey by the National Sheep Association ask how many time animal have be worry or attack , and I think 70 % of respondent report such an experience , but in only 14 % of case — barely one in 10 — do the owner of the dog alert the owner of the livestock to the crime . either people do not feel that a crime have occur or they do not think it be important enough , so a lot of the evidence and information will be take away . therefore , in these circumstance , it be crucial that the provision in clause 4 be put into law . I welcome this Bill , and I again congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal on move it forward . this be a live issue , and I hear a case at a constituency surgery just last Friday . it do not involve livestock , but it certainly do involve out - of - control dog worry local people . my constituent be worried about attack . in fact , one constituent ' s dog have just be rip to piece by dog that be loose . for the sake of my constituent in Moggerhanger , for those who have press the issue of dangerous dog in town and village , for those who have suffer from hare course on their property , and now for farmer who want to look after their livestock , I fully commend the Bill to the House . I think we be all await an update on Violet . I call Virginia Crosbie . I start by congratulate — llongyfarchiadau — my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) on bring forward this important Bill . one of the first thing I do as a new MP in 2020 be meet with local farmer Brian Bown , Celfyn Furlong and Peter Williams in the Tafarn Y Rhos in Rhostrehwfa , and they be concern about livestock worry . to ensure that my farmer ' voice be hear in Westminster , I undertake a journey to act on their behalf . I visit farmer like Tecwyn Jones at his farm in Bodedern and Gareth Hughes at Cleifiog farm in Valley . Tecwyn lose seven pregnant ewe and three ram in an attack by an unknown dog or dog , describe by police as " brutal " and " horrendous " . I hold meeting with Rob Taylor and Dave Allen from the North Wales Rural Crime Team , NFU County Adviser Iestyn Pritchard , the National Trust and defra officer , whom I thank , to understand how the exist legislation be fail and what would be require to protect farmer and promote responsible dog ownership in future . for my Ynys M ô n farmer , I be delighted that my name be on this important Bill as a sponsor , but credit should go to they for raise this important issue . my farmer make it clear to I that the legislation currently cover livestock worry , the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) Act 1953 , be outdated and no long fit for purpose . this be hardly surprising give that it have barely be touch in over 70 year and have not keep pace with dog ownership , leisure trend , dna technology or modern farming practice . work together , we develop a ten - minute rule Bill to amend the 1953 Act , which I lay before Parliament in July 2021 . that Bill would have give the police power to seize a dog or other item and to take dna sample where they have reasonable ground for suspicion that the dog have worry livestock ; provide a clear and tight definition of the phrase " close control " , make it a legal requirement that dog must be on a lead when near livestock of any kind ; and remove the maximum £ 1 , 000 fine so that irresponsible dog owner realise the full financial impact of their action . the proposal in my Bill be subsequently put forward for incorporation into the propose Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . however , in May 2023 the UK Government announce that , in order to get important legislation through Parliament , the keep animal Bill would instead be take forward as a series of single - issue Bills . like many , I be disappoint that the passage of the keep animal Bill be stop . however , I be reassure that the Government have be true to their word and be put the proposal through as individual piece of legislation , as we can see in this important debate . I be delighted that DEFRA be now prioritise livestock worry and have ask my right hon . friend , the former Secretary of State , to take the change forward in her private Member ' s Bill . agriculture have be the backbone of Ynys M ô n for century . at the beginning of the 13th century , the island be know as " M ô n Mam Cymru " and " the granary of Wales " . in the 17th century , livestock rearing and dairy farming begin to replace arable land . the system of hedgerow enclosure still form our landscape today . many of our farm be still small — most be between five and 100 acre — compare with those in other part of Britain . consequently , herd be relatively small , and livestock can feel like member of the family . that be why brutal dog attack hit Ynys M ô n farmer particularly hard . let I tell the House a little more about farmer Tecwyn Jones from Bodedern . Tecwyn go out one day to tend his sheep and find seven pregnant ewe and three ram dead in his field . they have be kill by an unknown dog or dog in what police describe as a " brutal " and " horrendous " attack . when I visit Tecwyn ' s farm , he tell I about the impact that the attack have have on his business and his wellbeing . his account of the event be harrowing . he share the awful moment when he find his sheep brutally kill : he come across one dead carcase after another in the pour rain . those sheep , which he have lovingly rear and care for , have clearly suffer horrendously . Tecwyn be visibly upset and shake when he relate the story to I . the dog that carry out the attack have never be identify . even if a dog be suspect , the law have no tooth to identify and seize it unless it be find unsupervised at the scene of the assault . for Tecwyn , it be not just the financial loss that hit he — although that go into the thousand of pound — but the emotional loss of those prize animal , which he have put time and devotion into rearing . Tecwyn be not alone . this be a huge issue for farmer across the UK . livestock worry take place when dog that be not keep under proper control attack or chase livestock , particularly sheep . although attack be not officially record , and it be widely accept that many incident go unreported , it be estimate that around 15 , 000 sheep be kill by dog each year . over the pandemic , many of we be encourage to get out into nature , and there be also an increase in dog ownership . that lead to an increase in livestock worrying , which continue to be a problem today . National Farmers Union datum indicate that the average insurance claim for attack be over £ 1 , 300 , and some claim reach the ten of thousand of pound . in 2020 , the cost of livestock worry to the farming community be estimate to be £ 1 . 3 million . the Government ' s animal welfare action plan refer to the need to keep dangerous dog legislation effective . I be very pleased that the Bill pick up many of the change that I propose three year ago , which include give the police power to seize a dog or other item and to take sample such as dental impression where they have reasonable ground for suspicion that the dog have worry livestock ; and put the financial responsibility on the dog owner rather than on the farmer . dog attack can cost farmer ten of thousand of pound , so it be only right that the dog owner be make to pay for the damage cause . survey show that only 40 % of dog owner accept that their dog could injure or kill a farm animal , and that 64 % of dog owner allow their pet to roam free in the countryside , despite half of they admit that their dog do not always come back when call . experience show we that the natural instinct of even the most well - behave domestic dog can take over when other animal be in close proximity . even without physical contact , sheep can die or miscarry as a result of the distress and exhaustion cause by a dog chase . by their very nature , pet owner and farmer almost universally care deeply about animal , and much of solution to this problem be about raise awareness of the countryside code through legislation . it be vital that dog owner who live near or visit land on which livestock be be raise understand that . as a dog owner myself — my cocker spaniel , Violet , send she regard to my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) — I hope that this legislation , alongside an effective communication plan , will serve to educate dog owner . on behalf of Tecwyn and all farmer who have suffer financial and emotional loss through dog attack , I support this excellent and important Bill . once again , I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal on introduce it . Diolch yn fawr . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) on introduce the Bill . I be sorry about her throat , and I hope her voice recover quickly . livestock worry cause havoc for farmer up and down the country . the vast majority of dog be much - love and good - natured family pet , but a small minority be not keep under control , allow they to aggressively chase down , attack and , in some case , kill livestock . farmer be leave to cope with the stress of injury to and death of their livestock . there be rise concern in the farming community about dog attack . this week , I visit the Oulton family farm in Audley , near Newcastle - under - Lyme . they tell I how frequently they experience dog chase and attack their livestock , only to be tell by the owner that the dog do not normally behave like that . another farmer I speak to tell I that , quite horrifically , someone have deliberately bring and set aggressive XL bully dog on her sheep , but the police have not consider it serious enough to even turn up at the scene of such an appalling crime . that be quite clearly unacceptable . the NFU ' s own datum have find that attack on farm animal have cost £ 1 . 8 million in the past year alone , as the right hon . member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) point out . that be a staggering cost to farmer at a time when they face the perfect storm of excessively high energy bill and record - high level of personal taxation . the Bill make important progress on improve police power to crack down on livestock attack . it be right to raise the penalty for livestock worry and make the regulation clear , but we also must use this opportunity to ensure that we educate responsible owner about well control their dog when they be near livestock . as the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) say , pet owner and farmer care deeply about the welfare of their animal , and a big part of the solution to the problem must lie in raise awareness of the countryside code . it be vital that dog owner who live near or visit land on which livestock be be raise understand that , even without physical contact , sheep can die or miscarry as a result of the distress and exhaustion cause by a dog chase . the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals conclude that most livestock worrying incident be cause by unaccompanied dog and , to a less degree , dog be walk by their owner . responsible dog owner can play a major part in solve the problem by ensure that their dog be keep on a lead and be adequately socialise and train , so that their pet do not pose a risk to livestock . owner must also ensure their property be secure to prevent dog escape from their home and garden . farmer and livestock owner can take measure to ensure that there be visible signage in field where livestock be present and to swiftly report any incident to the local police . the police , of course , should be expect to respond promptly . the Bill be a first step in prevent the harm that dog can cause to livestock . Labour fully support the Bill and will look to strengthen it , should it reach Committee and Report stage , to ensure that livestock be properly protect . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) on bring forward this incredibly important debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) for her tireless commitment in term of meet her constituent and the work she do through her 10 - minute rule Bill . the Bill build on the work do by my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) in meet his constituent and raise their concern , as well as that do by my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) . it have be good to hear the many contribution throughout the debate . when the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill be withdraw in May last year , Ministers commit to deliver the measure in the Bill individually , and this Bill take forward key measure on livestock worry from that Bill . it will amend the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) Act 1953 to strengthen police power and extend the location and specie in scope of that Act . the UK have the high animal welfare score in the G7 , accord to the World Animal Protection index , and some of the high animal welfare standard in the world . I be well aware of the support that animal welfare have in this country through the volume of correspondence that I receive not only through the Department and my official but as a constituency MP represent Keighley and Ilkley . that strength of feeling be apparent again in this debate , and the Government will fully support this important livestock - worry Bill through Parliament . animal welfare continue to be a priority for this Government , and we have already deliver against a number of commitment to date . we have increase the penalty for those convict of animal cruelty . we have announce an extension of the Ivory Act 2018 to cover five more endangered specie . we have pass the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 and launch a dedicated committee . we have make microchippe compulsory for cat and , have visit Yorkshire Cat Rescue in Keighley , I know how important that issue be . we have successfully ban glue trap . we have introduce new power for tackle hare coursing , which my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) make such committed effort to achieve . we have support private member ' bill to ban both the trade of shark fin and the domestic advertising of low - animal - welfare - experience abroad . we have protect the welfare of service animal through Finn ' s law and ban commercial third - party sale of puppy and kitten , which , again , be something that all of we in this House have be contact about via our constituent . we have also modernise our licensing system for activity such as dog breeding and pet sale . I hope that that reassure the House that the Government be work hard to take step to far improve our already high standard on animal welfare . the Bill build on the Government ' s ambitious programme of animal welfare reform , and we be pleased to support it . the Government take livestock worry incredibly seriously , recognise the distress that it can cause both animal and farmer . livestock worry can have awful impact . the behaviour of dog that chase , attack or cause distress to livestock can result in injury and even death . there be also wide psychological impact on livestock as a result of worry , such as that cause by abortion , which be pick up by my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) . these impact go beyond the animal and their welfare . we must also be conscious of the negative implication on the health and wellbeing of our farmer who be devastatingly impact , as well as experience financial loss . the Bill amend the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) Act 1953 , which underpin livestock worry offence and enforcement . since its introduction over 70 year ago , the number of livestock in England and Wales have double . Dog ownership have increase by more than 20 % between 2011 and 2020 . in 2021 , a report by the Pet Food Manufacturers Association estimate that 33 % of household in the UK now own a dog , which be another reason it be so important that we introduce this Bill now . the all - party parliamentary group on animal welfare estimate in its 2017 report entitle " tackle livestock Worrying and Encouraging Responsible Ownership " that there be 34 , 000 incident of livestock worry per year in England and Wales alone . there be also the additional financial cost , with the National Farmers ' Union estimate that , in 2020 alone , the cost of livestock worry across the UK rise by more than £ 100 , 000 to £ 1 . 3 million . exist legislation provide a specific offence of allow a dog to worry livestock , with a maximum fine of £ 1 , 000 . all report crime should be take seriously , investigate and , where appropriate , take through the court and meet with tough sentence . the Bill seek to reduce instance of livestock worry and attack by focus on two key area : expand the location and specie in scope of the offence ; and strengthen police enforcement power . the Bill extend the scope of the 1953 Act by broaden the location where an offence may take place to include road and path . this will help protect livestock when they be be move , for example , from one enclose field to another , such as cow go across the public highway to the milk parlour , or sheep be move from one field to another across the public highway . the Bill will also extend the specie protect by the 1953 Act to include camelid , such as llamas and alpaca . the Alpaca Society estimate that there could be as many as 45 , 000 alpaca own by its member in England , with a further 20 , 000 own by non - member . the Bill will also improve the ability of the police to enforce by make provision in relation to the power of entry , seizure and detention of dog , and the collection of vital evidence , such as dna from blood on a dog ' s collar . we have engage extensively on all these measure with key stakeholder , include the livestock and farming sector , animal welfare , police and veterinary sector . these measure be vital in tackle the issue of livestock worry and will greatly strengthen the exist legislation to decrease instance of livestock worry and attack . the importance of this Bill be evident from the discussion we have have today , and I look forward to its proceeding through all stage in the House . I conclude by once again thank my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal for bring forward this crucial piece of legislation . with the leave of the House , I thank all hon . and right hon . member who have speak today . we have see from their constituency example why this update to the legislation be need . I thank the Government for their support . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for the support of his Majesty ' s Opposition , and I thank the official and my parliamentary team , who have take the Bill this far . I hope we can get it swiftly through the House to ensure that for farmer , rural community and the animal themselves , that deterrent effect will be in place . it be much need . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . School Attendance ( duty of Local Authorities and Proprietors of Schools ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . we should all be extraordinarily proud of our nation ' s young people . child in England rank 11th in the world for math and 13th for read . back in 2010 , when today ' s school leaver be just start out in reception , the same league table place the equivalent cohort of child 27th for math and 25th for read . I be also proud that every single one of the school in my constituency be rank good or outstanding , up from just two in three school 14 year ago . there have be phenomenal progress and we must not let it slip . that be why it be so concern that the number of severely absent or persistently absent pupil be still dramatically high than it be pre - pandemic . while the number have improve over the past year , we still have over a million child or young child persistently absent or bad . as well as be a place to socialise and make friend , school be key to give young people access to skill and opportunity for their future . the surge in persistent and severe absence risk a profound impact on educational attainment and then on long - term outcome . research by the Children ' s Commissioner find that three quarter of child who be rarely absent from school receive five good grade at GCSE , include the crucial English and math , but when we look at those who be persistently absent — miss 10 % or more of their school time — only one in three meet that standard . for child who be severely absent , it be only one in 20 . a multi - academy trust that have a school in my constituency point out that even a small drop in attendance can have a profound impact . it look at the relationship between attendance and GCSE result in one of its high - perform school , and 82 % of those who achieve 95 % to 100 % attendance get those five good gcse , include English and math . when we look at the child who be there between 90 % and 95 % of the time , only 68 % achieve that . even those few miss session can make a huge difference . my right hon . friend offer the House a most fascinating insight into the impact on performance of non - attendance for only a relatively short part of the school year . be that widely recognise within the teacher community , particularly among headteacher , or be that something she be seek to draw to their attention through this excellent Bill ? I thank my right hon . friend for that excellent intervention . the Children ' s Commissioner research have accurately pinpoint how these small difference in attendance can make a big difference in outcome . such research have be do more recently , since the pandemic . the schoolteacher I meet recently be concern about non - attendance . clearly , when we move into severe absence , that be a big point . the reason for increase pupil absence be multiple and complex . issue include support for those with special educational need and disability , anxiety , and mental health issue . if a child ' s SEND need be unmet , that can lead to their miss out on education . change in attitude towards minor ailment may be another drive force , as parent be now more likely to keep their child at home for minor illness such as cough and cold than before the pandemic , but in most case child be well off at school , include when they have minor ailment . for the most vulnerable pupil , regular attendance be an important protective factor , so I be concerned to hear from an expert that attendance at the alternative provision set that he cover have drop below 60 % for the first time . research show that regular absence from school can expose young people to harm such as be draw into crime or serious violence . I be really grateful to the Children ' s Commissioner , who early this week bring together a roundtable of expert on the issue to discuss it in more depth . the group include head of multi - academy trust from across the country , representative of local authority , mental health expert , attendance expert and AP provider . every single attendee state their support for the Bill . they also speak about what they have see drive the increase in non - attendance . we hear that the economic situation have put pressure on household budget and housing , which mean that people sometimes get rehouse far away from school . that have have an impact for some family , but be not the cause of poor attendance in the majority of case . some commentator have note that absence be high among child on free school meal , but one MAT leader who have do a lot of research at school level suggest that may not be the case for all ethnic group . his research compare cohort of school in which all school have high level of free school meal . the school that also have a high proportion of pupil with English as a second language have a much well level of attendance than the school cohort that have a high proportion of white british student . that need further investigation . the head of a multi - academy trust with school in my area as well as other area explain that there have be an uptick in poor attendance by girl in year 8 , 9 and 10 . other school leader confirm that they have see a similar trend . they suggest that it may be link to lower mental wellbeing and self - esteem . it be worth read the 2023 girl ' attitude survey by Girlguiding UK , which bear that out . girlguide UK ' s excellent report show that girl ' happiness be at the low level since it start the survey 15 year ago . the survey report increase online bullying , online sexism and online harm among girl , as well as a large increase in the number of girl feel ashamed of how they look . that show why the work that the Government have do to tackle online harm be so vital , and why it be vital that Ofcom really do implement what be set out in the Online Safety Act 2023 . of course , there be more work to be do to address that . a number of expert reflect that they feel that the contract between school and family have be break by the pandemic . a report by the Centre for Social Justice go into that in some detail . I be interested that a local authority representative suggest that the breaking of that contract may have be far compound by day off due to teacher strike . some leader suggest that there may be a link for some family between the increase in hybrid working and child miss school . as a mum , I can completely see that it may be more difficult for some parent to persuade a reluctant child to go out of the house and into school on day when one be work at home oneself . interestingly , other country have look at hybrid modelling for school post pandemic , but we need to remember that the vast majority of child be well off in school . we discuss the issue of fine , and I be tell that in some case parent ask for an education attendance order to be place on they , as they believe it could help they to persuade a reluctant child to attend school . in address the issue of school attendance , however , it be important that we do not simply lay the blame at the door of hard - work parent . Most parent want their child to do well , but many do not have the help that they need to support their child in fulfil those aspiration . that be why secure good attendance require a holistic approach that bring together school , family , the local authority and other local partner . it be also why in 2022 , follow an in - depth consultation , the Department for Education publish new guidance entitle " work together to improve school attendance " . I have a copy here and , as you can see , Mr Deputy Speaker , it be very lengthy ; it run to over 60 page and be extremely detailed . a great deal of emphasis in this guidance be place on early help and multidisciplinary support . it require every school to have a senior member of the school ' s leadership team act as attendance champion , and set out how school and other partner should work together . last year the Education Committee undertake a detailed inquiry on attendance , and witness agree that the guidance need to be put on a statutory footing . that be also a major recommendation by the Committee . make it mandatory for body to follow that good practice guidance be support by the Children ' s Commissioner and the Centre for Social Justice , as well as the Select Committee and many other expert . the Bill will make that happen . it will not solve all the issue , but it will make the guidance statutory . it will ensure that all school , trust , local authority and other relevant local partner follow the good practice guidance . it will introduce a new general duty on local authority to exercise their function , with a view to promote regular attendance and reduce absence in their area . clause 2 will require school of all type to have and publicise a school attendance policy . both clause 1 and 2 will require all school and local authority to have regard to the guidance issue by the Secretary of State , which be to be achieve by insert two new clause into the Education Act 1996 under section 443 . the Department for Education have tell I that it will publish a revise version of the guidance ahead of the provision take effect . the guidance will help to reduce unfairness in the amount of support available for family in different area of the country and level up standard in area with poor attendance by require the provision of consistent access to support . local authority will need to provide all school with a name point of contact for query and advice . they will need to meet each school termly , use their service and lever to remove common cause of absence in their area , and work with agency to provide support where it be need in case of persistent or severe absence . school will be expect to have an attendance champion , to have robust day - to - day process for recording , monitoring and follow up on absence , to use their attendance datum to prioritise the pupil and cohort on which their effort should be focus , and to work jointly with local authority and other agency where the cause of persistent and severe absence go beyond the school ' s remit . a register of child who be out of school due to elective home education be not part of my Bill , but it be part of the child not in School ( Registers , Support and Orders ) Bill table before Christmas by my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) . that be a separate issue and another Bill be come on that . finally , I thank many third party , include the Centre for Social Justice for its research on the subject , and the Children ' s Commissioner and her team for their recent advice . I be extremely grateful to all those who be expert in education , and who care so deeply for child , for their support for this Bill . school attendance be key to our child ' s future . this Bill will make follow the guidance mandatory , so that every school , local authority and body will need to follow the good practice . it be a positive legal step that we can take to enable child to get the support they need and help they return to school . I hope all member will support it , and I commend this Bill to the House . I rise to support this Bill and , in particular , to reference the continue impact of the covid pandemic on pupil who remain at school . in talk to headteacher in the term follow the closure of school during the pandemic , it be bring to my attention that compulsory absence from school have lead to some very worrying behaviour . a number of child have not return to school as a direct consequence of the pandemic . although they may be educate at home , they lack the ability to socialise with child , particularly when transition from primary school to secondary school , which set the tone for they as they move into old cohort . that then persist as they become teenager and move into adult life . if they do not learn how to deal with people of different age group , it have a profound impact not just on their education , but on their ability to socialise in later life . this be a particularly timely Bill to encourage school attendance , because there be still many child in secondary school — most have come through primary school by now — who have be so badly affect by the pandemic . my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) mention organisation that have be helpful to she , and I would like to make another point in relation to mental health issue . in her preparation for this Bill , I believe that the Centre for Mental Health and the Children and Young People ' s Mental Health Coalition be helpful in point out to she that absence from school impact on child ' s mental health . they have recommend that an absence code for mental health be introduce . we clearly welcome the progress be make with the roll - out of mental health support team to many thousand of school , and perhaps the Minister will touch on that in his remark . my final point be that the requirement in clause 2 for school to publish their attendance policy will help significantly in improve performance , because it will give headteacher and class teacher the ability to point out the policy to parent before student select their secondary school , and to use it as a mechanism to explain to the parent of recalcitrant child that this be an absolute requirement of the school . a requirement to publish the policy and perhaps , in due course , the attendance figure will give school a tool that they currently lack , so I support this Bill . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) on bring forward this really important Bill . be around teacher and friend in a school or college environment be the good way for pupil to learn and reach their potential . time in school also keep child safe and provide access to extracurricular activity and pastoral care . the datum that we have on school attendance include child who be persistently absent — those who miss at least 10 % of session , which be equivalent to about one afternoon every week . in spring 2023 , that apply to 21 % of all child , or an astonishing 1 . 5 million student . child who be severely absent miss over 50 % of lesson — they be absent more often than they be present — and in spring 2023 , at least 140 , 000 child be severely absent . compare with pre - pandemic school record , the number of child who be severely absent have increase by 133 % . something have to happen : we have to have a child - centric approach where the child ' s voice be hear , which will help improve attendance . I be glad to hear that the attendance mentor scheme have be expand to include Stoke - on - Trent , provide one - to - one mentor support to pupil over a three - year period . such scheme to tackle the factor behind non - attendance , such as bullying , mental health issue or the feeling of just be too far behind make a significant difference , as do the tutoring aspect of that scheme . however , it only reach at most 1 % of severely absent pupil , which do not represent a serious response to this unfold crisis in our education system . we must act now to return those child to the classroom . every day that we wait be a day that push they far away from the education they deserve . in Stoke - on - Trent , we have the high number of look - after child of any local authority — child who may have lack a family support network — as well as those who have to deal with difficult circumstance at home , such as caring responsibility for a parent or sibling . all of those child need to be in full - time education and to be provide with extra support . some excellent work be happen in Stoke to support child who may come from those challenging background : for instance , City of Stoke - on - Trent Sixth Form College have an area that provide warm clothe and coat to child , because no child should ever be too cold to be able to learn . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on youth affair , and have hear directly from young people why they sometimes feel that school be not relevant . they say that the curriculum do not meet their need : it do not include important subject such as financial and enterprise education , or practical skill such as prepare food and prepare they for the job of the future . every day of education matter , and failure to keep child in the classroom be store up untold problem for the future , so I absolutely endorse the effort that this Bill be make to strengthen local authority ’ power , encourage they to work with school and instil a desire to bring every child that we can back into school . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) on introduce this Bill . good level of attendance at school be crucial to child ' s education . it should go without say that missing class can cause serious consequence in later life , so it be imperative that we do all we can to get child who be regularly absent back in school . as my right hon . Friend mention , the Bill be a simple but crucial piece of legislation that will combat the real concern about child be away from school by place a general duty on local authority to promote regular attendance . it should also help to ensure that school play their part by require they to have a dedicated attendance policy . I be very pleased that the Government be already commit to confront absence , with the Education Secretary have say : " tackle attendance be my number one priority . " in 2022 , the Department publish detailed guidance for school , academy , independent school and local authority to improve school attendance . the Bill aim to make some of those recommendation statutory , and while the move to that statutory footing be generally welcome , I know that some local authority be a little concerned about the cost implication of move from an advisory footing to a statutory one . if the Minister could say anything in his remark about support for those local authority , I be sure it would be very welcome . it should be recognise that ensure attendance be a team effort . I be very pleased that in 2022 , the Department for Education launch a consultation seek view on measure to improve the consistency of support to family in England on school attendance . the consultation have respondent from that very wide joint team effort — school staff , academy trust , parent , local authority and other relevant organisation — and those response be largely in favour of implement the change that the Bill aim to introduce , with 71 % agree with the proposal that school should be require to have an attendance policy . I welcome the Government ' s recent announcement that over the next three year , up to £ 15 million will be invest to expand the attendance mentor pilot programme , which provide direct incentive to support more than 10 , 000 persistent and severely absent pupil . that come alongside the announcement that there will be 18 new attendance hub , which will see nearly 2 , 000 school benefit from advice on cut down absence . that be a list of the good thing that the Department be do to tackle this problem , and the Bill would only add to that . although the additional funding and the expansion of the hub be welcome , the support that be currently available to family and pupil can vary significantly depend on the school the child attend and which local authority area they live in , so I be pleased that the Bill intend to end such variability . by require local authority to provide all school with a name point of contact to provide support with query and advice , it will reassure school that they be not on their own , and by mandate local authority to use their service to remove common cause of absence in their area , it will , I hope , help to combat any socioeconomic factor that may be lead to low attendance . like most right hon . and hon . member — include , dare I say it , you , Mr Deputy Speaker — I frequently visit school in my constituency , and I be consistently impressed by the dedication and commitment of the teacher and all the other staff . I be especially proud to have in my constituency a university technical college , which provide education that go well beyond traditional academic subject and focus on develop skill that will be directly relevant in the workplace . that underline the range of superb educational provision that exist in Aylesbury . I wish to highlight the brilliant ofsted report receive this week by Aylesbury High School , which be judge to be outstanding in each and every category . that be a tremendous achievement and I hope that the Minister and , indeed , the entire House will join I in congratulate the headteacher and everybody at Aylesbury High School on it . during my visit to school , I sadly hear too often about the challenge of ensure attendance . of course , the individual school — whether it be a high school , a utc , a primary school or whatever type of educational setting — need to implement policy to tackle that attendance challenge , so I be pleased that the Bill will require all school to implement robust day - to - day process for recording , monitoring and follow up absence . those datum will help the school and the local authority to assess the good way to tackle short and long - term absence . it be , though , important that we do not overburden our school . this be particularly the case for some of the small school , which tend to be those for child of a young age . I see this at first hand during a visit to a primary school in my constituency towards the end of last year . despite it have absolutely excellent facility , superb teaching staff and happy child , one challenge be prominent in the mind of the staff , and that be attendance . despite the school ' s considerable effort at engagement with parent , there be some who simply refuse to bring their child to school . such be the desperation of staff that sometimes they feel they have no choice but to drive in their own car , at their own expense , and pick up pupil themselves . that can not be right , but they do it because they be nervous , and even scare , of the implication if they do not — if they could be construe not to have do absolutely everything possible to ensure attendance . the staff be particularly concerned that it might result in the school ' s be downgrade by Ofsted . I do not think that be what the Government or anybody else intend when they say they want to secure really good attendance . we must make sure that this legislation do not increase the likelihood of that add burden and pressure on school staff , who already have plenty to keep they occupy that be rather more legitimate in achieve the good possible education for the child in their school . overall , I think the Bill have the potential to go a very long way in tackle pupil ' absence from school . it will far assist the Government ' s long - term commitment to improve education and help to ensure that child get the most that they possibly can out of school . let I repeat my congratulation to my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford on get her Bill to this stage . I look forward to see it reach its next stage , both in this place and in the other place . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the right hon . member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) . I agree with she that the current poor attendance rate constitute a crisis that must be address as a matter of urgency . indeed , last week Labour table an Opposition day motion contain a range of possible way to address the problem , but unfortunately that long - term plan to deal with the school attendance crisis be vote down by Conservative Members . labour will support the Bill today , but , as the right hon . Lady herself acknowledge , it be a limited first step . school provide parent with their attendance policy will do little to encourage the one in four parent who , accord to the Centre for Social Justice , do not view school as essential every day . place duty on local authority to promote attendance will only shift the blame from a Government who have watch this situation spiral out of control to council that have already be do their good to deal with it . while any measure intend to deal with this problem be obviously welcome , this Bill will only scratch the surface . we need proper intervention to get child back in the classroom . the figure be stark . last year , under this Government , 21 . 2 % of child be persistently absent from school . that be more than one in five , and it be double the figure just six year early . the number of child miss half their lesson have rocket too . in my local authority , Newcastle City Council , it rise by 282 % in just six year , and other area have even high number . how can we properly set up a child for the future if they be miss every other lesson in school ? all this be go on while the Secretary of State say that this be her " number one priority " . in the Labour party we firmly believe that every child matter , and to those child every day at school matter . that be why we have set out a long - term plan that look at the issue cause persistent absence in the round . because we see evidence that breakfast club have a positive impact on attendance as well as on child ' s learning and development , we be pledge to roll out free breakfast club to every primary school in England , which we will fund by end the non - dom tax break for the mega - rich . as the right hon . Lady mention , we see the mental health crisis unfold among our young people , with child languish on long waiting list for child and adolescent mental health service . we would recruit thousand of new staff to bring those list down , and we would place specialist mental health professional in school so that child could access the support they need . we also see that there need to be more accountability in the system so that problem like this be pick up early . labour ' s plan will involve annual school check cover persistent absence , as well as off - roll and child safeguarding . we see that child be not engage with a curriculum and assessment system that have be describe to I as " joyless " and " narrow " , so we would launch an expert - lead curriculum and assessment review look at how to broaden our curriculum to prepare child for the future and give they an excellent foundation in reading , writing and math , but without sacrifice the thing that make school fun . we also see that child ' s early speech and language development have suffer over the last few year , and get it right at an early stage will lead to well engagement throughout their school life . we would equip primary school with fund to deliver evidence - base early language intervention . finally , we would introduce a " child not in school " register to ensure that child who be not be teach in a school environment do not fall through the gap . I must ask those on the Government Front Bench , be this really the good that the Tories can do to tackle the attendance crisis ? we face a lost generation miss from Britain ' s school , and yet we have hear so little of substance from the Government on how to resolve the problem . we will support the Bill today because , if nothing else , it shine yet another spotlight on the lack of government action to deal with the crisis in our school , but we really must see more urgency from Ministers on how they intend to tackle this problem . tinker around the edge will not do . we need a proper , long - term plan , and if the Government will not deliver it — despite the right hon . Lady ' s good effort — the next Labour Government will . let I first warmly congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) on her success in the ballot , and on use that success for this purpose . I be delighted that she have choose school attendance as the subject of her Bill . it be a subject that I know be close to her heart , and one that she have champion with aplomb and with impact . she say towards the end of her remark that attendance be the key to a child ' s future , and I agree . we have often say that reading be the most fundamental thing in school , because if a child can not read properly , they can not access the curriculum and nothing else work , but attendance be even more important . whatever our brilliant teacher be do in school , if the child be not there , they can not benefit . I thank my hon . friend and the opposition spoke - person , the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , for their contribution . we all recognise the importance of regular attendance not only for child ' s attainment , but for their wellbeing and development . there be evidence that some attitude to absence have change since the pandemic , with a somewhat great propensity among some family to keep a child with a minor illness , such as a cough or a cold , at home , whereas prior to the pandemic they would have go to school . it be worth say that , before covid , great progress have be make on attendance since 2010 , and we be commit to get back to those level . they will never be 100 % , for obvious reason — every child will be off school ill at some point , and sadly some child will need to be off for extend period — but we need to get back to that pre - pandemic level of 95 % or above . I be pleased to confirm that the Government fully support this Bill from my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford . we be explore all possible avenue to make our attendance guidance statutory , include the use of exist power . that be important because we want every child to be able to achieve their potential , and attend school regularly be obviously crucial to that . as my right hon . friend outline , this Bill will improve the consistency of support available in all part of England , first , by require school of all type to have and to publicise a school attendance policy and , secondly , by introduce a new general duty on local authority to seek to improve attendance and reduce absence in their area . the Bill will require school and local authority to have regard to statutory guidance . in practice , that will see we revise and reissue our " work together to improve school attendance " guidance . it be widely support by school , trust and local authority , and both the Education Committee and the Children ' s Commissioner have already call for it to be make statutory . the guidance be introduce in September 2022 and have already start to make a difference . there be 380 , 000 few pupil persistently absent or not attend in 2022 - 23 than in 2021 - 22 . overall absence for the autumn term just go be 6 . 8 % , which be down from 7 . 5 % in autumn 2022 . to turn it the other way around , attendance in that term be up , year on year , from 92 . 5 % to 93 . 2 % . however , while we of course welcome that improvement , there be still further to go to get to those pre - pandemic level and well , and there be still part of the country where family do not have access to the right support , as my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) rightly identify . it be important to legislate to end the postcode lottery so that any family can get the support they need , and do so will give parent increase clarity and level up standard across school and local authority . that be also an important part of this Government ' s emphasis on a " support first " approach , mean that school and local authority work together to break down the barrier that can stop a pupil attend . to support school and local authority in meet those expectation , the Government already have a comprehensive attendance strategy , and this aspect of it be only one part of a much wide whole . we have deploy attendance adviser to support local authority and a number of trust . we have create a new data tool , with 88 % of state - fund school sign up . at the system leadership level , we have convene the attendance action alliance to work across sector to remove barrier to attendance and reduce absence . we have launch 32 attendance hub , to reach more than 1 million pupil . and we have expand our attendance mentor pilot , as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) rightly mention , to reach 15 priority education investment area . [ Official Report , 8 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 5mc . ] ( Correction ) of course , much wide work be in place as well . More child be now eligible for free school meal as a result of the protection put in place on universal credit transition ; £ 30 million have be spend on breakfast club and it be target at where it be most need — where it can have the most effect . I say to the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North that that do include secondary school as well as primary school . we also have in place the holiday activity and food programme . we be increase the pupil premium in 2024 - 25 to £ 2 . 9 billion . of course attendance be one of the great factor and important driver in narrow the gap between well - off and more disadvantaged pupil . we be expand the Supporting Families programme over this spending review period , and address attendance at school where there be a problem be a fundamental part of that programme . my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) mention the last effect , sadly , of the pandemic and the importance of socialisation , and he be absolutely right ; we often think of the early year and the effect on the young child , but this be actually true throughout a child ' s or young person ' s development . he particularly mention the year 6 to year 7 transition point , which we know be pivotal in so many way , and a lot of school be do some very good work there . my right hon . friend specifically ask about mental health and the possibility of an absence code . I understand his motivation and that of other in raise that point . let I just say that a practicality question be involve . at the moment someone be take the register , it be not always practical for they to be able to say that something be one particular type of health issue or another , and there be the risk that we would have inaccurate reporting and a misunderstanding of trend as a result . he also mention the wide work on mental health . he will know that we be put forward a grant for every state school to be able to train a senior mental health lead . in addition , the really important wide work on mental health support team , support cluster of school , primary as well as secondary , continue to grow . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central mention not only the mentor programme , but the importance of extra - curricular activity and pastoral care . that be really important and we need always to be say that this be about not only learn and attainment , but everything else that come with school . of course , I join my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury in congratulate Aylesbury High School . he be right also to ask about cost for local authority and for we not to overburden school . in advance of issue our exist guidance on attendance , we carry out the comprehensive new burden assessment , which find that the expectation could be implement by local authority without additional funding if they have the average number of staff work on attendance . we be confident that that assessment remain accurate , base on a grow body of evidence since that assessment be publish . the evidence show that where local authority be deliver the guidance , staffing level have remain within those predict level . but my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury be also right to talk about ensure that we do not overburden school themselves . I join he in pay tribute to school leader , schoolteacher and wide staff for the extraordinary work that we have hear be go on and what they be do to get child into school . I absolutely agree with he that we need to ensure that we have a proportionate approach that support the whole system — the school , local authority and so on — and work with people in our common endeavour to maximise the benefit that child get from their education . this Bill , if pass , will also update our exist guidance in advance of the new school year to reflect the late good practice and feedback that we have gather from the sector , and to make it as easy as possible for school and local authority to understand the action they need to take . in closing , I reiterate my thank and appreciation to my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford for bring this important Bill before the House today . be in school have never be more valuable , with standard continue to rise , and this Bill will help to ensure that every young person and their family , whatever their background and wherever they be in the country , can receive the support they need to do just that . I be sure we will hear more from she — and I look forward to that — as the Bill progress through the House . I thank she again , and I urge hon . member across the House to support the Bill . with the leave of the House , let I start by thank everybody who have speak today , especially those from the back Benches — my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) and my hon . friend the Members for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) and for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) . they all care passionately for child and young people , and those who be educate they in their constituency . they raise a number of very important point . I would like to address the issue of mental health support team . the various mental health charity that write to I , such as the Centre for Mental Health and the Centre of Children and Young People ' s Mental Health Coalition , do excellent work . they recommend the introduction of a mental health absence code . I listen closely to the Minister on this issue . it may not be as simple as one would like . in their letter to I , they welcome the laudable — that be their word — progress make in roll out mental health support team to many thousand of school . I know we would like more . they do a super job , and the difference that that initiative have make be amazing . there be an important point about not put extra burden on school and local authority , and I thank the Minister for that . I thank , again , all the staff in the Department for Education and other who have help with this Bill . I thank his Majesty ' s opposition for say that they will support the Bill . however , we must not talk down our child . our child be do exceptional thing and have have very difficult time . our child be the good reader in the western world . they have leap - frog past so many other country in what they achieve in reading and writing . it have be exceptional what have be achieve in the 14 year that have be a child ' s journey from reception to year 13 . we must be so proud of they . it be this Government who put in place those early read improvement through the use of phonic , which give child that basis , and who introduce those early year extra hour and be roll that out even far . if his Majesty ' s Opposition truly care about attendance in school , they would have support the Bill during their Opposition day , but they do not . this Bill be the no . 1 recommendation of the Education Committee and other . the Bill mean that school and local authority will have to follow good practice ; too many do not , and this Bill will make sure that they do . I would like to say a huge " thank you . " let we get this Bill through . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . congratulation . Employment Equality ( Insurance etc ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . in this place , our nation ' s Parliament , change come in many form . sometimes it be the clamour of the picket line , the lobby group or Members ' own interest . sometimes it come in the shape of an MP ' s constituency surgery and the quiet work man ; a man who know what be right and wrong , who seize injustice and internal fury and propel it to this place to be remedie . he fight not for himself — he know the barrier that he face — but for every man , woman and every one of we , as we face the cruel certainty of age , and age discrimination in the workplace . the man be Stephen Horne . I be proud that he be my constituent , and I be proud today to speak to Stephen ' s Bill . stand with he on tackle the endemic age discrimination in our society . the Bill aim to address the provision at the heart of the nation ' s challenge . I support my hon . friend ' s Bill , as she know . the protection of other characteristic — gender , race and religion , for example — be generally observe in employment law . do she agree that pervasive age discrimination be a big issue that we need to tackle , as her Bill will do in a small but important way ? my hon . friend be exactly right . age discrimination be absolutely pervasive in our society . it be such a common experience that one in three people report have experience it . we must tackle that injustice . the Bill repeal paragraph 14 of schedule 9 to the Equality Act 2010 , which allow workplace benefit to be remove from a work person solely by reason of their come to statutory pensionable age . I be pleased to introduce the Bill under the ten - minute rule last year , and I be pleased to bring it back today with strong support from so many member across the House who , like I , believe that we urgently need to tackle this issue . People in their 50 and 60 commonly experience discrimination because of their age , and 37 % of those incident be at work , accord to the Centre for Ageing Better . one in five employer believe that age discrimination occur in their organisation , and many argue that ageism be a key barrier for people age 50 to 64 who want to return to or remain in their workplace . paragraph 14 allow active discrimination under the law , and so open the door to other form of indirect and unconscious bias discrimination . that be well explore by the Women and Equalities Committee , which say that it be clear that there be " prejudice , unconscious bias and casual ageism in the workplace " , as well as inadequate challenge to current practice . Stephen be a train driver with Eurotunnel . he help to build the tunnel before it first open 30 year ago , and he have drive a train since the very first go through the tunnel . when he reach the age of 66 , his boss decide to remove his workplace benefit relate to income protection and long - term sickness , and his health insurance . that put Stephen at a disadvantage compare with other worker . he be do the same job at 66 as he do at 65 , but now he do not get the same money ' s worth , or the same term and condition in his contract of employment . in simple term , Stephen do not get pay and condition equal to those of a young worker solely by reason of his age . that be not right . if Stephen fall ill , he can not get the same access to speedy private healthcare that other people in his company get , include for a workplace injury , which mean that he might be out of the workplace for long . if — heaven forbid — he die , his wife Marsha would no long have the compensatory insurance through death - in - service benefit that another worker ' s family would be entitle to , yet Stephen be do exactly the same job as he be before he reach retirement age . when look into Stephen ' s case , I be shock to discover that such age discrimination be legal . the Equality Act 2010 be suppose to provide protection for old people against age discrimination . age be , as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) rightly say , a protect characteristic , and it need to be treat as such . that exception in the Act mean that Stephen and worker up and down the land face discrimination , and similar issue with term and condition . we need to tackle that issue , because people be stay in the workplace long , and because it be unfair and wrong . it need to be tackle in this place through a change in the law . I have have discussion with company about why they do not just do the right thing , why they do not change this unfair practice , and why they do not look after all their worker well . the answer that I have have be simple : they will not do that until we in this Parliament say that they must , because they do not want to have to pay more by offer those term and condition . the bottom line be that they do not want old worker like Stephen . that be not right , and it be not something this country can afford , either . People be work until a much old age ; that have become more acute as the Government have change the pensionable age . Stephen ' s Bill seek to put right the situation for every old worker in this country by change the law on workplace benefit , so that old people be treat the same as other in any other part of the employment relationship . we know why this matter . there be a time when a pregnant woman have to quit her job and leave the workplace ; indeed , there be a time when woman be not welcome in many workplace . there be a time when woman be not give pay maternity leave , man be not give pay paternity leave and woman would not get job if they be of childbeare age . we have address that through Parliament over decade . now employer find that retain woman in the workplace — indeed , have they at the very top level in the boardroom — benefit not just mother , but business . business can now retain the vital skill , knowledge and commitment of female worker , and that need to happen in relation to old worker too . old worker have skill and knowledge gain over many year in the workplace . treat old worker fairly will encourage they to stay , and benefit the company they work for . I remember a time when employer use to say that a woman do not need to work , get the same bonus as a man or be offer overtime , because man need those opportunity in order to feed their family . we outlaw that because equal pay at work matter and equal opportunity at work matter , too . that apply every bit as much whether it be a young or old worker do the job . another excuse that be give be that cover old people become more expensive for everyone , because the premium for the company go up . that is , of course , absurd . apply that logic , would it be okay to exclude from employment benefit people who have have a heart condition , cancer , a bad back , a disability or a chronic condition , on the basis that the insurance might go up ? of course not . it would not be lawful , and it should not be lawful for that to happen simply because of someone ' s age . we have say in other case that take away someone ' s work benefit be discriminatory and wrong , and it be discriminatory and wrong to do so simply because they have get old . that be something that none of we can influence or affect ; it will happen to we all . even in this place and , as we have hear recently , even in Government , people ' s term and condition and severance pay differ depend on the age at which they take their role or responsibility . it be time for we to amend this great injustice . Stephen know that the challenge that he face in change the mind of his boss be enormous , and there be no indication that they be prepared to do that . however , I know from speak to business that there be thing that the Government can do , beyond change the law , to ensure that this injustice be address . that could include ensure there be compensatory payment to give equivalence , on an equal pay basis , to people who do not have access to the same pay and condition as other . that mean make it unlawful for those offer insurance to have that kind of discriminatory condition , which we should do . this be such an important time for our nation , as we look for everyone to contribute , and require people to work in , old life . it be essential that we put in place the right law , protection and framework , so that whatever people want to do in old age , they be treat fairly and equally . that be the reason that Stephen have ask I — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 15 March . business without Debate Secure 16 to 19 Academies Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . whistleblowe Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 1 March . Adjournment Resolved , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Stuart Anderson . ) House adjourn .